ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Before entering today's agenda, I have a statement to make to this House: The Standing Committee on Moroccan Affairs presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs: "Measures to speed up the government's work on education". We enter the supplementary agenda of LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs: "Measures to speed up governmental work on education". The above draft law was characterised by the Government as an urgent one, and the competent Permanent Committee on Formats Affairs accepted by a majority as an emergency, in accordance with Rule 110 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 24 May 2017 to discuss the draft law at a single meeting in principle, articles and amendments. Does the House agree on this?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u2	So the House unanimously agreed. The rapporteur for SYRIZA has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u3	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the draft law of the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs: 'Measures to speed up governmental work on education'. This legislation was deemed necessary following the recent decision of the Council of State. This decision considered an article by L.4327/2015, namely the one concerning the selection of school directors by the associations of teachers by the secret ballot procedure as unconstitutional. The reasoning of L.4327/2015 ensured a framework for participation of teachers in a matter directly related to school administration, teaching and teaching process, school communication with the rest of society and institutions, worthwhile and moral codes governing the functioning of the school. In other words, the approach of L.4327/2015 ensured conditions of democracy and collective responsibility for the direct teaching work of the school unit, the educational unit. I am, of course, very impressed by the silence of the collective bodies of the two major educational federations on the subject, namely the opinion of the association of teachers on the person of the director, but none of the things I am surprised about is the attitude of the New Democracy, which scares me from participatory and collective procedures. We therefore come to the first part of the bill on the selection of directors. The school's management bodies are the teachers' association and the manager of each school. The role of the school club is not questioned by anyone, it is important and we should at some point discuss policies to strengthen this role. The role of directors is also diverse and multifaceted. That is why any discussion is attempting to be or to be opened, which concerns the placement of managers outside the intestines of the educational community, and of timelessness. It is not possible for a person who has no knowledge of the educational reality of school, of the relationship between school and parents, of the relationship between school and society hypothetically now or in the future to discuss that it will not be one of the inflatables of teachers. That is why we regard what we are now legislating. What is envisaged for the selection of school managers? To have the teacher who is called for this place of education, teaching experience. How is teaching experience assessed? The teaching experience for us is the experience of school teacher in school, the experience of teacher in the school unit. As we said, a school unit is not only a learning process, but it is the whole of those processes that relate to the child's mentality, to the relations of school with society, how it will manage the human resources, how it will manage the social actors. So through this process we are mobilized from the tenth year of teaching experience to the twentieth. We were accused of not seeking renewal. Listen, ladies and gentlemen. An instructor, who has twenty years of service, is theoretically about forty - five to forty - seven years old. With what you and we have voted off at sixty-seven. How exactly is he not young? How younger, with the audacity that beats the industry? Scientific training. Doctoral, postgraduate, second degree, computer knowledge, teaching, certified training. Cuveda, we didn't do anything about the relevance. There has been a lot of talk, for we do not mobilize study or doctorate more. Ladies and gentlemen, at some point we have to deal with two issues: the relevance and purity of these diplomas. There are many complaints - and I am presenting at least two papers from the newspaper 'Kathemerini', which is not a friend to the government, and from the newspaper 'NATIONS' - which is not so clear. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Stefos, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I would like to say to you, in other words, that we should not overestimate scientific qualifications when they are inconsistent and are likely to be your years, Mrs and my dear colleague, do not bother.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u4	When we were talking about fake degrees, you legalized them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u5	It's about your years and search your family, not ours. In any case, they are all wisely and soundly conscientiously, so that they are not wronged against each other. Interview. Each candidate will come to the selection board, for which I will speak below, and through an interview procedure that will last for fifteen minutes, his ability to run should be assessed. The interview is today at eight molecules. I would like to remind you that in previous years, in the governments of New Democracy and PASOK, interviews were the means by which the service councils did what they wanted, they chose whoever they wanted. In addition, it is estimated that on the basis of the applicant's CV, his writing activity, research activity, seminars and social offer. They are valued not by molecules, but they are taken into account as far as their personality is concerned by the board which makes the choice. Respecting the decision of the Council of State, we do not share the opinion of the Teaching Association. However, for us it is an integral and very important part of the selection process of directors to formulate the opinion of the school club. This is because the club is able to know the attitude, contribution, administrative skills and the personality of a candidate director in general. The club's opinion completes the picture that the board can obtain through formal qualifications and interview. What is the position of the parties on the opinion of the teachers' association? What's New Democracy saying? She doesn't want it! She doesn't want it! Of course, what is the position of trade unions? Why do they not want to express the club's opinion? Respecting S.H.E.'s decision. - because we can't do otherwise - I have to say this: we don't have the deputys taking part in the process of the teachers' club, because the S.H.I.E. He imposed it. For this very reason, alternates, who are a large part of education, about 1/6, are excluded from this process because the decision of the S.H.E. That's what it's demanding. As regards the staff councils, seven staff councils are set up with the participation of the two representatives of the industry. Don't blame us for making party councils. Don't do it! Because today's knowledge says that from the service councils, the vast majority, 80%, come from the IAEA and the PASOK. They are therefore not parties. Also, do not accuse us of wanting to choose the same directors because those who were in their schools were chosen by the previous procedure. I'm coming to something else. If we look into the past before 2015, we will see a lot of complaints about how school managers were chosen. If you look in 2015, you will find no complaint when this choice was made by the teachers' associations. The New Democracy will shortly argue that it will not vote for the law because of the lack of evaluation, which should be done in the arrow. Date of birth: 152/2013. What assessment is New Democracy talking about? The evaluation of the teacher? Of course, in order to bring thousands of teachers out of order and to dismantle public education.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u6	Where does the law say so? What's the presidential decree?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u7	Mr. Mitsotakis said that in 2013, you fired them. The educational community will never forget the closure of vocational training structures and the dismissal of two and a half thousand teachers. It hurts you. We'll remind you. I have never heard either now or in previous years, both the New Democracy and the PASOK talking about evaluating educational structures, analytical programmes, school books. When did you care about the professional upgrading of teachers through training processes? What do you have to say about reducing spending on education? We are the ones who, within the narrow budgetary margins, have increased them over the last two years. The new bill includes the three years of teachers. Two years plus one at the same school. This is how renewal is sought, because - let me say - no one has any use at school. It does not remove the right to be in the selection process of directors and to be chosen. The second part of the bill focuses on other issues of educational interest. In particular, Article 2 extends the term of office of the elected bodies of the HEIs for three months, due to the forthcoming legislation, which will bring about changes in the way the institutions of higher education are elected in order for the new institutions to be elected in the new legislative framework. Article 3 refers to issues of secondment of teachers to services of the Ministry of Education, Central and Regional, and the conditions of secondment of teachers to special education structures are clarified. Article 4 allows undergraduate school graduates to be enrolled in the first class of the ESDP. It's about elderly people who need their degree. It shall also establish the hours of the preparatory programme for the certification of graduates in the post-training year of apprenticeship to thirty-fifths. Article 5 of this draft law focuses on issues relating to the functioning of the Muslim mosque in Athens, which is, of course, completed. The legal framework for the operation of the Muslim mosque of Athens was provided by Mrs Giannakou's 3512/2006. However, as this law has been passed 11 years ago, when many changes in the way public administration perception and practice have emerged, it was considered necessary to make some changes, which are consistent with the general administrative data. Law 3512/2006 emerged after the experience of an area of worship for Muslim visitors, athletes and actors, the Athens Olympics 2004. The country's international image was arrayed by the absence of some official place of worship for Muslims. In this respect, it should be taken into account that our country has signed the entire institutional framework of International Law, and in bilateral contacts with leaders from the Arab countries, with which Greece traditionally had good relations, the issue of building a Muslim mosque has always entered. This need is being expelled from the principles of undivided religion, but it is also one of the basic human rights which our country has signed. Athens is the only European capital from which a Muslim mosque is missing. The needs of building an area of worship for Muslim visitors and residents of the country are crucial. Article 5 of this Law updates certain issues relating to the public character of the posted and its functions and the manner in which the management board is appointed, as well as the secondments of officials to the management body. To conclude, Mr President, and still having two minutes at my disposal, let me remind you of the issues of education, which are, in fact, the main part, the main part of this bill, I would remind you of something that has been said decades ago. "The state does not care about the education of citizens so much, because, if they are trained well, they will be dangerous to the state." No one said it a great anarchist or any great communist. An extremely important composer, Manos Hatzidakis, said so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr Stefos, particularly for respecting time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u9	Mr President, may I have the floor on staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u10	What's the staff, Mr. Kegeroglu?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u11	Mr President, I ask for the floor on personal grounds, because Mr Stephen, speaking, offended my intelligence.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u12	You? In what?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u13	Let me conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u14	Here, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u15	In attempting to substantiate his opinion on the election of directors, Mr Stefos said that the interview was used in the previous years by New Democracy and the PASOK to put party directors in place. So this is an insult to our intelligence.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u16	It's not a personal matter, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u17	I'll tell you right now, Mr. President. It is an insult to my intelligence, because on 26-8-2011, PASOK, the principal was chosen as head of primary school.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u18	Mr President, I now want to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u19	Please, it's not personal, though. Are you going to answer for a personal answer? Because that wasn't personal. You understand that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u20	At least I mentioned my name, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u21	You want to talk for a minute, for you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u22	Mr President, at least it seems to me that my dear colleague is joking. I was elected, yes, manager in 2011 and my CV is at your disposal. He didn't do me any PASOK favors and no boards.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u23	The others were partisan, weren't they?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u24	Don't be in a hurry. If you see the interviews and the score I received, you'll understand. They played with the interviews, played in a vulgar way. There are infinite complaints, both for interviews and for the formation of boards. That is precisely why you did not like the bill providing for the agreement or opinion of the school club. You do not want any participatory procedure that you do not control.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u25	The rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Kerameau, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will begin with the process and that is why the colegislative procedure very much reveals the substance of legislation and the intentions of the government. The way you choose to legislate proves that your declarations of substantive dialogue, of consensus, are empty minutes. Four major points of order were raised in this bill, four very serious points of order, in violation of the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the House. Mr President, I would like a little quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u27	Please, Mr. Kegeroglu, be quiet. Those who are talking in the Chamber, please discuss out-of-secret discussions. That's not how it works. Ma'am, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u28	Four major points of order were raised in this bill, four very serious points of order in violation of the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the House. Firstly, the urgency procedure. You know for a long time that the Balta - Kourakis law on the selection of directors had been considered unconstitutional by the Council of State and on 22 July the terms of office of the current directors are due to expire. You know that why you yourself, Minister, almost six months ago you asked us for our opinion on what to do, because the law had been considered unconstitutional. However, you have brought this bill in urgent procedures. You considered, in other words, several days of the three days for drafting a bill, which touches much of the educational community and includes many details. Secondly, there was no public consultation in this legislation too. You did not allow the members of the educational community to express their concerns, their comments on the project, and their constructive proposals for the new system of selection of managers. Thirdly, and perhaps the most serious ones, you have prejudiced the parliamentary procedure. Before the bill was even filed in the House, you issued, Minister, here, a press release the day before the bill was deposited. What do you say in this press release? You present the new system of selection of directors as a previous decision. I will read you a specific sentence from this press release, which, I say, was published again before the bill was even submitted to Parliament. You say: "It is noted that in the pillar "Service status, guidance and administrative experience" will be measured - surely - and autonomous teaching work in AEI. Therefore, those who have such a right shall be required to ensure that a valid certificate is provided.’ I'm presenting the announcement in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Niki Kerameos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the ruling majority, you have nothing but to close the House if you prejudge the entire parliamentary procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u29	Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u30	Fourthly, in the wake of the drafting of the bill on Friday night, the educational community reacted strongly to a arrangement that you had put in which you said that after two terms of a director, he cannot be a candidate for the third time in the same school unit. Friday night the bill was filed and Saturday morning, again with a press release, you change this provision. In other words, you are to be legislated by means of communications. We told you, Minister, if you have little respect for the parliamentary procedure, if you do not think that all three hundred of us are decorative, then drop the bill, put it in consultation and restore it to the Greek Parliament under normal procedures. You didn't, showing that you don't want the dialogue, you don't want the criticism. Error, management failure, blurred will. Honestly, I'm not sure what all of this characterizes your government. The worst part is you don't seem to learn from your inexorable mistakes. Already justice, ladies and gentlemen of the ruling majority, has been decided on four decisions by the government, which have been declared unconstitutional: the Pappa Act on TV licences, the Pavlaki decisions on the removal of governors from hospitals, extensions of public contractors and the Balta-Kourakis Act on the selection of executives. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] It's annoying what I'm saying. I know! You continue with the same curiosity, with haste, with the practice of voting - I am voting against, without any respect for the parliamentary procedure. You, who have proclaimed me to be every word of this Constitution, as you proclaim that you are in favour of dialogue and consensus, on the imaginary level perhaps. But the reality seems to be disgusting to you. Why, while you told us in committee, Minister, and it is your words 'let's not be afraid to discuss', you brought this bill with urgency, without consultation, a communication without even having tabled the bill. But what consensus, ladies and gentlemen? Here you cannot agree within the government with your partner, the ANELs, on the basics and you are looking for bases to the other parties for support. The truth is that so far we have had several examples of the government's majority on fundamental issues, such as citizenship and human rights. But I must admit, ladies and gentlemen, that in the bill you have exceeded every previous one. The ANELs voted against the mosque, but the MP of ANEL and the Minister of Education Mr Zouraris signes the bill containing this provision! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] All we have not yet seen, ladies and gentlemen, is the Member himself signing a bill as Minister and voting against it as a Member. Maybe we'll see that today. Ladies and gentlemen, we have spoken in detail in the debate on the principle and the articles of the draft law, in which we disagree on the substance and in which issues of constitutionality and equality are raised, but also many other omissions and distortions. Before I go to the main theme of the bill, let me make a brief reference to the other four articles. Article 2 provides for the extension of the mandates of university administrations for three months in order to elect the new administrations on the basis of new provisions you intend to bring forward. We are voting against this article, because we disagree with the new provisions you intend to bring, just as you have set out these new provisions, for example the selection of counter-procedures from a separate list. As we also vote against Article 3, as we consider that these arrangements are further downgrading the educational work provided in special education units and in CEDs. We are voting in favour of Article 4, which amends the Law on Lifelong Learning and Vocational Training. The majority of the arrangements envisaged are indeed in the right direction. With regard to Article 5, we have clearly advocated the creation of the Islamic mosque of Athens. Besides, the law that you are discussing today is the law of Giannakou. We are in favour, firstly, because religious freedom is a guaranteed right for every citizen living in Greece and, secondly, because the building of the mosque hopes to restrict and eliminate the illegal places of worship that are growing exponentially. We have, however, expressed some concerns about the specific provisions you are bringing to the vote, namely the establishment of the Management Board and the financing. I now come to the major bill, the choice of directors. Ladies and gentlemen, we have touched on the obvious, self-evident, that we are talking about selecting teachers for the positions of directors and nowhere in your bill you are talking about evaluating the work of teachers. Secondly, we disagree with the reduction in the gravity of the formal qualifications, the scientific qualifications of the candidates and the increase in the gravity of the antiquity, the experience, much less when it has not been evaluated. We disagree with the important omissions in the draft law on which experience is measured as teaching, let alone, Minister, when the legal framework itself has foreseen that these experiences are measured as teaching. I fear that actions will be taken, if you do not amend this article, and that the risk and the Gavroglou law will be declared unconstitutional. However, there are also significant distortions in molecularisation of individual qualifications, for example, moleculosis of only annual training and not of others, such as the non-modulation of a writing work. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, we disagree with the introduction of the expression of opinion by the school club for the candidate directors. We oppose this middle street that you chose to offer to your left audience, following the balta-Kourakis law fiasco, in an imaginary democracy, with the expression of the opinion of the teachers' club. We have disagreed, ladies and gentlemen, not only on the conflict climate that will create between teachers and not just on the most practical issues that we have already mentioned. What opinion will an instructor take at a one-stop school, for example? What will an instructor take, who goes to three and four schools to complete hours? Who knows him well enough to express an opinion on this? But, above all, ladies and gentlemen, let us not hide, the reason why we primarily disagree - and here is our difference - is because we want the worthy schoolmaster, we do not want the good guy, we do not want the popular. Ladies and gentlemen, we have raised serious issues of credibility, both for the creation of selection boards and for the interview process, as the majority of members in the selection councils will be chosen by the government- appointed regional directors, without essentially any merits or even objective selection criteria and without any request for expressions of interest. Ladies and gentlemen, it seems that two worlds are colluding, two different worlds for the school of the first century. You, the ruling majority, want a school in which teachers and managers will not be evaluated - you should not even hear the word evaluation - where teachers will not have to do training - you should not have this stress to collect papers and degrees, as the Minister told us in committee - a school in which teachers do not need to pursue writing work, so you choose not to mobilize it, a school in which it is primarily important to have antiquity and not scientific qualifications, in which there will be no need in 2017 to know how good a computer is and in which you will take a position ideally after a vote by your colleagues and if not a vote - because it does not leave you the Council of State - very little opinion by your colleagues on how good you are, how good a manager you are and if you have never been evaluated. A school in which the adorable, popular and not worthy is growing. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a completely different worldview for the school of the twentieth century, a worldview based on the auspicious trio of evaluation, excellence and autonomy. For us, evaluation and accountability must exist at all levels, on every aspect of public life. Evaluation that will help the moderate to be better, through education and encouragement, and reward the excellent one for his performance. Excellence: Excellence as a factor of progress, excellence of many, not of the few, excellence of school and university as mechanisms of social mobility, and mechanisms of individual progress and perspective. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not want everyone to be equated downwards. We want to climb as many as possible up. Autonomousism: Strengthening autonomy not only enhances the role of units, institutions, educational and administrative staff, but also the need for greater responsibility towards trainees and society in general. Ladies and gentlemen, we want schools and universities which are not suffocatingly controlled by the Ministry of Education, but which are supervised productively on the basis of quality criteria, schools and universities whose executives will be able to take initiatives, differentiate and act, because only in this way will we inject the concept of responsibility into our children. A school of responsibility will give up - let me speak - responsible citizens. We do not want responsible citizens or people who like easy solutions. Within this framework, we do not see the training directors, the training directors, regional directors, school advisors, school directors as executive bodies and policies of the Ministry and the Minister. We see them as creative poles that have the potential to act on themselves. How are we going to achieve this? By decentralising the decisions relating to the functioning of school units, by introducing a regulation on the internal functioning of each school unit, by implementing a modern school management unit, by substantially strengthening the competences and role of the school club, which we believe should meet at regular intervals. We are therefore proposing the need for a more remarkable, more objective selection of managers in education and, in particular, of school heads, in line with international practices and away from micro-party tactics. The selection procedure must be based on three categories of criteria: scientific - pedagogical competence, service status - administrative competence and personality formation. A legislative framework is needed that sets meritable selection criteria for training officials and will highlight evaluation as a key factor - and this, ladies and gentlemen of the ruling majority - is our key difference, one of our key differences -, with clear descriptions of the positions of responsibility and a detailed definition of the tasks required to fulfil the intended responsibilities and even taking into account data such as administrative competences, good knowledge of at least a foreign language and the requirement, ladies and gentlemen, of information and technology, at least at the level of alpha, given the continuous technological development and penetration of digital applications and capabilities. You, ladies and gentlemen, in 2017 do not require the manager to know how to handle a computer. However, greater emphasis should be placed on controlling the personality of each candidate, possibly assisted by the use of psychometric tests. Ladies and gentlemen, this is how we envision the teacher who will shape our children to critically think of citizens who can analyse and compose, citizens who can take responsibility and try for them every day for the best. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, too. Before we proceed to the speeches of the special speakers, I would like to inform you that the President of Parliament, Mr Voutsi, sent the President of the House of Great Britain, Mr Birkrow, through the diplomatic path, a letter expressing our condolences and condolences to the events of Manchester with their victims twenty-two dead and injured. Today the House as a Parliament expresses its sincere condolences to the families and victims of Manchester, and of course to all the citizens of England who participate in mourning. I would ask that we keep a minute's silence on the victims standing. [[In this respect, I should like to draw your attention to the fact that the Commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks ……]] With our wishes, this terrorist energy must be the last of the world! We are now continuing with the speeches of the special speakers. Mr Constantopoulos, in terms of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u32	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the development of the negotiation is definitively closing the course of a account: the inexpensive promises, the inapplicable benefits and the supposedly dynamic negotiation. You have voted for measures and countermeasures and you are still negotiating. However, we are waiting for the negotiations to be concluded. Gentlemen of the Government, the debt restructuring agreement is a national matter. We need national strategy and national tactics. It's not something solved in the leg. There's no need for manoeuvre. That is why we need responsibility and even national responsibility from everyone. Ladies and gentlemen, lately we have been living an unprecedented and worrying reality on issues relating to the constitutional legislature. A reality that is not an obligation to commemorate commitments, but what? It's the result of your obsession. They are part of a wider plan to create a party army and state officials in the field of information, education and health. After all, the Council of State cancels the laws you are voting on. The urgency of this bill responds to the Ministry of Education's obligation to comply with the decision of the S.H.E.'s plenary on the choices of school directors made with Law.4327/2015. The annulling decision of the S.H.E. It therefore requires you to go to legislation for the selection of school managers only. Minister, once again you put the cart in front of the horse. Commander choices never start from the bottom up. They always start from the top down. First the choices of the training directors are made, then the school advisors and, finally, the school directors. You've broken, gentlemen of the government, the record of prolongation of school advisors. No one knows when and by what process new choices will be made, what the role of the institution will ultimately be. It all started in 2015 with your dedication, the dedication of the interview process. The n.4327/2015 account was, of course, the secret ballot of the school club for the selection of the head of the school unit. You said the interview was a sinful story. However, you restored it by n.4351/2015. If it was a felony, however, you made it a felony. May I remind you that the 'perfect', '15', at the largest address in the country, in Attica, has been taken by who? Only SYRIZA's party officials. Here I would remind you that from the thirteen regional directors throughout Greece, your sovereignty is as follows: 12 SYRIZA and an ANEL! The conclusions of yours. Let me remind you, too, that in Western Greece the first ones in the vote are being placed last in the interview. Is it possible to correct many through the vote to make a few mistakes in the interview? Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, Mr Stephen, who disagrees with the involvement of the club in an internal evaluation process, in a valuation process which will include the Director, which will be a key criterion for the continuation of his term of office? Re-response is a prerequisite for the executive crisis. This function of the school club is pedagogical, I would say administrative, necessary. But you want to turn the clubs into choice bodies and even by secret ballot. Get the rest of them across to them, that's what's going to be your result. Law 3848/2010 was in terms of the conditions and the outcome of the choices a great step of merit, objectivity, transparency. They all say so. Who? The ones judged. The vote in schools also confirmed from the 2011 educational basis the 85% choices. This result did not meet your expectations, so did you reinstate the interview with L.4351/2015? To put what? To put a cutter, Minister, where? "Kitter" to the adorables. That's your result.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u33	Twenty molecules were interviewed with the previous law.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u34	Mr. Stephoe, you'll hear it all. Don't worry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u35	I'm not nervous. It was 20 molecules.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u36	Ladies and gentlemen, we have seven laws before 2010 and three laws from 2015 until today. We have, of course, three laws since 2015, because we have three ministers of education since 2015. That's really a feat! These three laws are for the selection of managers. And we're waiting for what? We're waiting for another one. No law to date has been judged unconstitutional and your law has been judged. He was found to be unconstitutional, No.4327/2015. We, Minister, insist and restore our proposal. Our proposal is: Yes to L.3848/2010, with the modulation it had for the scientific formation, for the imprinting of the educational service and the teaching experience, for the structured interview with the topic bank, by submitting a preference statement after the announcement of the evaluation results, which we proposed in an amendment and accepted. It is, as a general rule, the best way to do this. That's why you step there too. So what do you want? Whatever you like, you like, you take it, and what you don't like, get rid of it. So, gentlemen, you castrate the law. The leaks before the deposit of a bill, which were spoken of terms of terms, administrative exclusion and changes in the measurement of teaching pre-service and service, were not just rumours. They were captured in the bill. The Democratic Reconciliation has fought to remove the confinement of the terms and to submit the statements - preferences after the end of the interview. We are continuing today, Minister, the battle from this Step, because the fair demands of teachers are hundreds, and what we are asking for is just one: listen to the many, listen to the teachers, listen to those in the classroom. Minister, the printing at all times and in a different way of the teaching service in the choices of training managers must be stopped. We have tabled an amendment to you on transitionality in the measurement of the teaching service. Nowadays, all the officials are waiting for you to vindicate them. We are clear. Any secondment and non-educational leave shall not be considered, Minister, as a teaching service. However, the staff of education that serves in the structures of administration, supervision and innovation must recognise their term of office as teaching staff to date. For that is what L.3848/2010 said when teachers have applied for these posts, as did L.4327/2015. What's that? It's fair. You are rejecting them today. Because when we summoned them as a state... Minister, I... Mr. Stephoe, I'd like the Minister to hear.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u37	He can talk and listen.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u38	Uh, you're not Napoleon, my Minister. If you were Napoleon, there would be no problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u39	I can hear it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u40	Minister, when we called on all these teachers, as a state - because each government is the continuation of the previous - to participate in the process, we did not tell them that their term of office was not taught. We weren't talking about it. The laws were called, and Law No.3848/2010 and Law No.4327/2015. What are you doing? You're punishing them retrospectively. That's for sure that's clean and even legally perforated. It is a request for the whole education community to be able to apply, as candidates for the school units, in addition to PYSPE and PYSTE, which belong organically to another PYPSPE or PYSE. Ladies and gentlemen, in this draft law, and in particular in Article 2, the Government is calling for the extension of the mandate of the solemn and collective management bodies of the HEIs. Today, basically, universities are headless, with your responsibility, or they operate with one or two members - and that is your responsibility. There should have been practically yesterday's election. We, what we are asking today, are elections here and now at universities.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u41	Why are universities headless?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u42	Article 3 clarifies the terms and conditions of secondments and placements on special treatment structures. That's our position, too. Article 4 allows access...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u43	The headless universities where did you see them? They don't have any administrations? Be careful what you say.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u44	I told you, colleague, they're headless. Since they didn't have an election, they're not headless. Article 4 permits access to secondary and vocational education for those holding a lower technical and vocational degree. The entry in the education class of PAAL GEL’s dismissal holders and the operation of PAEL’s annexes on islands helps substantially to ensure uninterrupted access to the vocational training of students residing and moving on a daily basis. These are proposals that we too have tabled in the past and with which we agree. In Article 5...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u45	Mr President, there is no Minister. There is no government representative in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u46	Please, the Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u47	The conclusions are in this House. The Minister is listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u48	The Minister is here.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u49	Yesterday, Minister, with Article 5, the welding element, I would say, of the SYRIZA-ANEL government alliance was once again tested. Minister, your masks have fallen. In fact, at the difficult time it burned you for a specific article, some left the back door and the "hot potato" raised it by those who really have democratic sensitivity and put the national debt above the party interest. I'm putting it down. The conclusions of yours. After all, Democrat is not the one who is a democrat but a card. They were made, Minister, during the time of the story yesterday, memorial and antimony memorial and so-called'red lines' to military and religious wages and, I would say, the strongest connecting element of your cooperation, described by one word: rulership. Ladies and gentlemen, Law 3512/2006 has made the state's commitment to the friends of Arab countries. Our country must respect religious freedom. The functioning of the Islamic motto ensures equal and free access for all believers, other than nationalities and dogmas. The legal person of the Islamic mosque Athens must therefore be established with stable principles and values and institutional representations in order to have a sound and proper functioning. You have brought, Mr Minister, and an amendment to the Sicily Foundation, which is essentially about other institutions. I would say this amendment, which came at the last minute, should be withdrawn. In fact, you have brought this amendment to this bill as Article 7. I would have told you to withdraw, because it also concerns other private individuals. We as Democratic Incorporation tell you to take it back and bring in a comprehensive arrangement, which concerns all of these legal institutions. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, however, the government continues to legislate in accordance with the urgency and urgency procedure and, of course, with amendments. This is her habit. It denounces dialogue and insists on pronouncing ideologically and obsessedly on preconceived decisions. Here's one thing we can tell you: Go on your own. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Mr. Constantopoulos. The Minister has asked for the floor for a small intervention. Here, Minister, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u51	I asked for the floor for a minute to answer what Mr Constantopoulos said about the amendment. I agree with you that there are other legal persons involved. Please, if you know how to testify and solve them. In this case, if we do not take this measure...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u52	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u53	Wait a minute. You have a madness to interrupt me. In this case there are two schools operating there, one of which is for disabled children. If we do not do that, the schools will not be able to operate, which is why the amendment is tabled. It's very clear. There's nothing else to hide. We really should see where else this problem can be solved. Especially here, they're both schools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u54	The reason is the special speaker of the Golden Dawn Mr Panagiotis Iliopoulos for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u55	Mr President, for a minute I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u56	Then.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u57	Will you solve everything here now, sir?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u58	Please, Mr. Heliopoulou. Mr. Constantopoulos, you'll be placed later.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u59	That's about...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u60	I'll give you after the speech, Mr. Constantopoulos. We won't have a dialogue. Mr. Eliopulus, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u61	Mr President, we consider it hypocrisy to hold a minute's silence on Manchester's victims, as we have done before for the rest of the jihadists' victims in Europe, but nevertheless to vote on mosques here and try to speed up their working procedures. In the devilish coincidence, therefore, every time there is a bloody terrorist strike in Europe by a murderer of jihandi, we come in the next few days - and I have noticed this - to discuss either the building of the mosque we have discussed so many times or the education of illegal immigrants. You, then, one week after the fourth memorandum was voted in favour, are bringing in a bill, and indeed in the urgency procedure, to speed up the procedures for the operation of the mosque in the heart of Athens. In fact, SYRIZA's rapporteur told us, listen, that this idea came in when athletes in 2004 had no place to pray. And we come in 2017 to make mosques for athletes 2004! In fact, what he said in his speech - and he told the committees too - is incomprehensible, we cannot understand it. It is a mosque that its rise cost EUR 950,000, and today we vote that the state will cover through its budget and its operating costs, the remuneration of officials, the Board of Directors, its support and so on. So you are provokingly telling us that Islamists, Muslims, who are also jihadists - to say this - who come in and enter our country, should also have a place of worship. The mosque will also have imperfections and tax exemptions. You've predicted all this. You are probably forgetting that jihadists who are part of children throughout Europe have received European education. The jihadist yesterday was a second generation English, raised in England. If the second generation do this, imagine what those who come today and invade our homeland and Europe and come directly trained and fantasized by the battlefields are going to do. Don't try. These people do not want to integrate themselves into Western civilization. Their religion teaches them when they're born to hate us. They think we're infidel. We're unfaithful of them no matter how much we're trying to integrate them. We know, however, that you have a globalisation plan, which makes it all right for illegal immigrants to be diffuse in our homeland, because they throw the cuts, dismantle labour rights, impoverish the Greeks. Your aim is to dismantle the social fabric, to wipe out Hellenism and Christianity, which as internationalists you hate deadly. We will, of course, be here and resist your plans in every way. So in the remarks in this fifth article, you tell us that the only capital of Europe that has no mosque - very nice speech - is Athens. We answer you: Look what happens in other mosque cities. Look at the dead that these mosque towns have. Manchester has sixty - two mosques, Stockholm thirteen, France as a whole two thousand - three hundred mosques. I only mention the cities and France, as a country, which have become the last terrorist strikes. The conclusions of yours. These people, the so - called poor, who are so tired of their protection, return hospitality in this way. This is their 'thank you'. Two hundred years, then, after the liberation of our country by Muslims, you "from the back door and evil" are flooding Greece with Muslims. Those who believe in the deception of culture are out of place and time. We say that all illegal immigrants need to be removed and we need to see again the nationality which has been given to foreigners so far. We also have the hypocrisy here, however, both of the ANE and of the New Democracy, for different reasons. The ANELs say that they are thus lightly voting against the heart, Article 5, but they continue to support the government. On the other hand, we have the New Democracy, which, yes, is voting with hands and feet, the mosque and any law are against the nation and Orthodoxy, but the next day they go to their parishes, they are crucified and believe that they will convince someone that this rotten party believes in Greece and Orthodoxy. In fact, the rapporteur of the New Democracy told us that "it is not the problem of building the mosque, in which we are in favour, but is how they will be appointed", this has affected the New Democracy, "the two members in the Board of Directors. of Muslims'. So the New Democracy rapporteur is concerned about whether tensions will be created between Muslim communities, between Sunni and Shiite. Such a burn has been made by the New Democracy for tensions between Muslim communities! We, therefore, do not want our children to live in a Greek enslavement in Islam nor to suffer the horror of the flesh, the handkerchief and the darkness of Islam. You, welcome to them, have painted your hands with the blood of innocent people in Europe and hopefully not to see this in Greece as well. As for the other articles in the bill, bring back an article, as you accuse previous governments, of being 'urgent', without any urgency in the bill, because of course you are afraid of public consultation. It bothers you any different viewpoints. You show your Stalinistic features. Article 1 clearly shows your intention to create a party army and education, as you are trying to create in the entire public sector. It's an area that's probably one of the only ones left to support you, so you're trying to set up your party army there too. We see that you are introducing the personal interview - purely party criterion - which plays a decisive role in the final choice: eight units over a total of thirty-one, i.e. 26%. Whoever is a good man will become a director. Prevent with an absurd reasoning the teachers from further alignment. With regard to moleculosis, many problems have been identified regarding the recognition of qualifications and certified seminars involving applicants for evaluation. At the same time, they do not count the candidates' second postgraduate and doctoral degrees, as well as their training certified by public bodies, giving teachers a stimulus for further academic training. This is what the Minister said in committee, not to become the teachers - that is what he said - degree collectors. Our view and position is that, once any directors are selected, they should be treated in terms of organisation and administration specifically for teachers, such as with some specific seminars, which can be held at the School of Public Administration. Finally, we are, of course, proposing the abolition of opaque evaluation procedures, such as interview, and their replacement with merit and only elements. Articles 2 and 3 are purely procedural. We have nothing to comment on. We'll see when they come to a bill, because they're about extensions. Article 4 shall move in the right direction, since paragraph 4 provides for the operation of PSF annexes to islands. We agree, since the students of these islands will gain access to education and they will not have to move to the rest of the country. In this way, on the one hand, the presence of Greek youth will be strengthened in the outermost regions of Greece, and, on the other, there is the possibility of developing branches of work that are missing from our islands and of being staffed by a workforce which has learned in these regions, if they work, because there is this problem with the decisions that you are taking, namely, that they are never implemented, of course, a few good things. I would like to make some general comments on education, since we are dealing with this draft law on education. Yesterday the student elections were held. Your old friends, the left-wings, were served in their well-known gymnastics. They've enriched their arsenal. We saw pictures of stiles, axes, daggers yesterday. Our position is fixed and it will not change. Student groups must be removed immediately, which are all they do is infect and degrade university and TEI spaces, and all they may be able to produce are members of the party tube, such as, of course, your President, Tsipras, who has developed through this process.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u62	Aren't you embarrassed? Is that what you need to talk about?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u63	I would also like to point out something else that was published yesterday. The Minister of Education of Mr.Mr.Marron, the chosen of the entire political system of Greece and of the bankers, as well as the Education Ministers of twenty-nine other European countries, are supporting - in honor - the teaching of the Ancient Greeks, because they recognize the value of the Greek classical education, contrary to your own ideas, which require the reduction of the teaching of the Ancient Greeks to be slowly eliminated. That is of course not what you will achieve. You are also preparing changes in history class. Yesterday the Society of Greek Philologists made a statement that characterises these changes as a charismatic shot at the educational background of the Greeks and stresses the following. I read exactly what Greek philosophers say, we do not say it: "Hellenic and fragmentary knowledge of Greek history and a unilateral approach only to some social and cultural developments of history, in the ideological selection of the proposed ones." Listen! That's how it characterizes you. It continues as follows: "The proposals of the Committee recommended by the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs for the course of history in compulsory education, if finally implemented", and they have their doubts, "will bring the graceful shot to the educational background of Greek students. For the teaching of mythology in the Third Municipality, the Committee proposes that Greek myths should be taught with reference to the myths of other peoples, without mentioning the political, ideological and cultural processes of prehistoric societies. This concept is highly anti-pedagogical, since without sufficient knowledge of Greek mythology as such, the eight-year-old student does not have the perception of moving into intercultural intercultural connections.’ In conclusion, we reject any debate on the mosque from a preamble. We are not entering the process of discussing the mosque and we repeat our position, which is stable and will never change: Jamie in Greece never and nowhere!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u64	Before I gave the floor to Mr Stephoe, because I asked for a minute's silence to be observed, I wanted to point out that Parliament was never hypocritically able to ask for one minute's silence on Manchester's victims. We cannot accept that. Nor can we accept that all Muslims have been arrested. Besides, fanatics are everywhere. Wasn't the Inquisition? Can we accept that all Christians are criminals, even Catholics? Have they not been attacked by the same group of Muslims, as happened in Istanbul, where there were many more victims? I mean, we can't just make it big. On the contrary, we must appeal to those Muslims, who are the overwhelming majority and do not accept these methods, to influence this whole movement, which is on the wrong track. The crusades did not bring peace to the world, but they have caused hatred that has so far been invoked by those who take such action. I think, therefore, that the House is not speaking hypocritically when it actually pays tribute to the victims of Manchester.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u65	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u66	Please, Mr. Heliopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u67	Mr President, first of all it is not your role to comment on the speeches made by the rapporteurs. The role of the Bureau is to listen to speakers, not to comment on them, and to proceed with the process. You said they're not all Muslim jihadists. There is no need to blow up all Muslims. One is blowing up and he kills twenty-two children! We didn't say it was everyone. We said that among Muslims there are fanatical jihadists who intend to kill anyone in front of them. You also mentioned the crusades. If you look at the Internet a little, Mr President, you have to comment on this, in common, 'roll' when it comes to crusades and today. The crusades of 1200 C.E., eight hundred years ago, may not have anything to do with this day. Mr President, we must also be a little serious about what we are talking about. We can't associate crusades with the jihadists, saying the jihadists are right to us... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Crusades were made to protect Christians. We cannot confuse them with today. If that's possible! Please do not comment. I did not say anything on personal grounds, you simply commented on my speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u68	First of all, Mr Iliopoulou, I had no intention of commenting on your speech. Secondly, I would like to agree with you that the Bureau is not commenting.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u69	But you're doing everything, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u70	But when I call the House in a minute' s silence and then I hear that this appeal is hypocritical, I do not accept that. You understand that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u71	But I can have an opinion and get it out.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u72	I agree, but I too cannot accept that I call on the House to hold a minute's silence. Everyone maintains their views and I respect it - my views have been heard - but none at all. I think we can have a dialogue. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty one students and students and three attendants of teachers from the Municipal School of Villages of Chania and from the 2nd Primary School of Souda Chania. The House welcomes them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u73	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u74	Mr. Stephoe, what do you want to comment on, please?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u75	The previous speaker referred to my suggestion with clear designations. Mr President, it is true that your position does not only honor you, but it honors all the democratic arc of this Parliament. However, it has been said that the speaker, the SYRIZA rapporteur, and the committees' meetings, and today, developing the logic of the functioning and necessity of the mosque, is jihadists who will probably take terrorist action. That's a terrible idea. Article 13 of the Constitution protects religion and individual freedoms. In any case, me personally as well as the government and SYRIZA separates us from intolerance theories and opinions. It also separates us from fascist and awkward theories. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u76	You're welcome, Mr. Stephoe. We will continue with the next special speaker, who is Mr. Ioannis Delis from the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u77	Ladies and gentlemen, the title of today's bill says it clearly: Government work in education is accelerating. The truth is, of course, that coexistence has recently turned around in the machine of its anti-grassroots policy in all areas. After all, the ink of the fourth memorial that it voted a few days ago has still not dried. Let us say here, of course, that the recent struggles of our people have not only been lost, not only have they already been made the carpet, the ladder for the next race eruption, but above all - and this is not a bit - demolished the entire government propaganda over the so-called philosophical government policy of measures and countermeasures. The first blow of the fourth memorandum in education was accepted by the private teachers, who saw the government effectively liberate their dismissals, further reducing their compensation for them. With regard to education in general, the Prime Minister himself announced a special memorandum on it, which was codified and timed in a specific timetable for implementation over three years. Of course, the three-year memorandum of education, the consequences of which extend over decades, is the fruit of good cooperation between the Government and the Institutions, on the basis of the third memorandum and always under the high supervision and guidance of the European Union and the OECD, to which the expected and well-meaning report bets the Government very much to find another support and ally in the new forward anti-educational attack that is about to take place at all levels of education, starting from the highest in a few days' time with the forthcoming draft law. Of all things, there will be the anti-educational "faxes": evaluation, the basic tool for the absolute implementation of anti-grass policy, expansion of apprenticeship, which is the other name of the cheap work of young people, bourgeois decentralisation and autonomy of the school unit, which will seek the necessary resources for its operation in the market and parents, and even greater care for high school in the name of rationalisation of the system of access to AEIs. All this and more will be the next steps in the implementation of this educational memorandum. It is no coincidence at all that a few months ago the Association of Greek Industrialists, with its 12 posts for education, asked the Association of Greek Industrialists for an announcement. And the desires of BSE are for you. So that your memorial and policy will not be left, and there is no doubt about who you are serving. And all this in a suffocating sub-funding environment in which you condemn education at all levels and with the cutter always waiting at the corner for new reductions if the bloody surpluses are not caught. We will say this again: The most flagrant example of your anti-education policy and today's, and also of the previous rulers, is elastic employment, labour wandering and stress about the work of thousands of substitutes and long-term teachers, whom you are ruthlessly mocking, making trades of hope with their fair request for appointments. Except your tears for them are crocodile. Appoint them now! What are the consequences of all this? The class barriers to the acquisition of full knowledge of the children of the people's families rise dangerously, and the mature demand for folk education is of course inconvenience and will make the demands of the labour and popular movement even more inconvenience. And that's why you're sure. Although today's bill appears to be compulsory simple regulation - compliance rather - with the decision of the CVC on how to select managers, it is more than one. It is, in fact, the first cartoon shot of the anti-educational attack, which is expected to escalate in the next period. The main body of the bill refers to the new choice of school directors. I said "new," but he's not that young! A simple reading of the bill will suffice to understand that, in essence, it has been another wrapping process itself for years, a political perforated procedure for selecting school directors, a selection procedure which has not, in fact, changed either by the previous much-advertised process of limited participation in the process of teachers themselves, a process that we remember has also been your alibi, so that you can proceed with a series of anti-educational arrangements. And now also in the committee yesterday and the day before yesterday, they have left over the thick words of the ministers and the government MPs about the depth of democracy in schools, about the participation of teachers. And all this thanks to their vote in 2015 or their opinion now for school directors. And we ask: What changed for the best in schools after the school vote for directors? Wasn't it in this time when the savage cuts were made in the entire day, which led, in addition to the thousands of redundancies of alternates, to continuously move teachers into a permanent rotation to cover the school programme? Wasn't it during this time that you were giving overwhelming blows to the special treatment, with the homelessness of the joining departments? And as for the democracy for which you are truly being cut, where was this democracy, when on the way from the confirmed educational gaps of the schools themselves to the education addresses themselves, and at the end of the ministry itself, did you disappear these gaps in that way I want to make the fewest transfers of teachers ever? And in any case, Minister, do away with the authoritarian record, and then we talk about democracy in schools. This process of expressing the teachers' opinion about the managers is now coming back in a different and dangerous way. In fact, the road opens for the activation of the first stages of evaluation, where the existing ones first evaluate their heads and then vice versa. So let the New Democracy and all the other parties be not very concerned about the evaluation. The government is moving on in a smarter and more insidious way. As stated in the first paragraph of Article 6g, teachers shall be consulted on specific questions for assessing the criterion of contribution to the educational work, the personality and the general composition of the candidate. The type and content of these sheets, that is, the questions, do you know who they are compiled by? They shall be drawn up by decision of the Minister. Such freedom of opinion and democracy! Rejoice her! It is not so much that this opinion, according to the bill, is not binding on anyone - in any case, it expressly points out - the board of directors, i.e. the board of directors - that is, you may not have allowed it to be bound, that is, in any case - but the main one here is the camouflage of the cloak of the participation of the carabina in the entry of the evaluation to education. That's the man. And that is what teachers need to pay particular attention to, seeing clearly the lentil that is waiting for them rather than the cheese of so-called participation. Besides, what you had, Yannis, what I've always had! Behind the well-known krone of merit, impartiality and objectivity, which we have heard so many times from previous governments, whenever the system of selecting directors changed, it is difficult to hide the SYRIZA's effort to create a more friendly environment for it of school managers. In short, SYRIZA copys and uses what he had a few years ago denounced with passion, without at all originalizing. In the well-known, it slightly alters the inner proportion of the gravity of the measurable criteria for the selection of directors and, of course, restores the reluctance to the consciousness of the candidates' educational interviews, with which, as the explanatory statement says, not only the contribution of each candidate to the educational work, but also his general composition and even his personality, will be assessed. And tell me how you'll count all this. What instrument will, anyway, take on this complex and demanding task? You answer: The local service councils of the training directorates, but not with their usual five-member composition, but with the extended seven members, in which the government's choices are guaranteed by hand, since the four of the seven members are very simply appointed by the government itself. And all that, you write, it will guarantee equality and dignity. And yet, we should not normally be impressed by all this, because this article on the selection of directors you are measuring it as "Amendments to Law 3848/2010", the well-known Diamantopoulou Law, a law that laid the framework, content and terms of operation of the so-called "new market school", a law of strategic importance for education, which incorporates all the philosophy of the European Union and the capital for the role of education in the service of the current needs of the major business groups and their barbaric system. It is a law which - let it be noted and has a value to be said - was passed before the first PASOK memorandum was passed. And this law that the movement has rejected, condemned to popular conscience, not only does the current government abolish it, but preserves it, updates it and, of course, implements it. There is no greater evidence, in our view, of the strategic inclusion of all urban parties in the issues of education. So many governments have changed since 2010, that law there. So, within this legal framework, it is not only the selection process, but also the role of school heads, and let them pay attention, regardless of their kind intentions, or even - whatever delusional ones, because the main is the most school being implemented for the needs of whom and in which society. Because the role, content and the very ultimate purpose of school in the capitalist society that we are living on the one hand is the reproduction of the dominant ideology and, on the other, the preparation of the cheap, proper, flexible, obscene, working tomorrow. We believe that government policy here does not fit any misunderstandings or illusions. Such, and so classic, is the school which is gradually building up by the government and the Euromono street parties with the cooperation of large capitalist organisations, such as the European Union and the OECD, as well as by the fancy biscuits of decentralisation and school autonomy. Whatever you say, its reactionary content can't be hidden. In addition, it is evidenced by the exact unpaid immorality, the smashing of the rights of teachers, the continuing deterioration of so much today's general education for all children, in the name of cheap and late training. In fact and in conclusion, the supreme criterion in the selection process of school managers is ultimately the degree of agreement and acceptance of this class ‘new market school’ and their ability to serve it effectively. Mrs. Keramea said about the two conflicting worlds. "We are two different worlds," you said, Mrs. Keramea, "with SYRIZA". You're in the same world. You serve the needs of the same world, the capitalist, its barbarity. Article 2 for S.H.I.E. seems to look like a premise of stormy winds in higher education with the bill coming in a few days. In Article 3, you extend mobility to special care staff and, of course, with the same article, Article 3 - which we are of course voting against - you are giving another blow to the special treatment. Apart from maintaining the unacceptable non-scientific arrangement that special treatment can teach everyone - they do not need to have special knowledge - you limit the scope of the extracts by this article of the permanent teachers of special treatment to special schools, CEDEFOPs and inclusion departments. What are you doing outside? The programmes of parallel support, early intervention and provision of home teaching, things that existed in your own law, last year's law. We ask you, we asked you yesterday: what are you going to do, Minister? Are you going to abolish this? Are you going to abolish the possibility of home tuition for children who can't move from home? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will ask for a small tolerance, Mr President. Thank you. In Article 4 we have arrangements for apprenticeships in the logic of amending the Arvanitopoulos Law. At the same time, of course, you do not stop constantly closing areas in vocational schools and generalizing the mobility of teachers without stopping. Here, let us say that we are certainly not opposed, and of course we agree with the operation of professional high school annexes on the islands and the issues of teachers' compensation. In relation to Article 5 on the Islamic mosque, we said yesterday that as a Communist Party we are in favour of building this Islamic mosque. This request was formulated several times before the resolution of No.3512/2006, taking into account the reality that a very large number of immigrants and refugees who believe in Islamic religion would have needed it. All of this, of course, is independent of our view and worldview of deities, religions, etc. In fact, we said that perhaps we should see even more function in Eastern Attica and West Attica, where the number of these people is concentrating, in order to decongested to some extent, perhaps the Botanic with the mosque there. Yesterday we asked a few questions, but it did not bother - or avoid - that the representative of the Ministry responded. On this occasion, we want the Step forward to state that despite our disagreements or our reservations - such as through the resources of the funding of this legal person by States and international organisations or regarding the appointed representatives of the board of directors or appointed imams, etc. - the JRC will vote in favour of Article 5, because we very simply want this text to work at last. Mr President, I would like to say a word about the Sicily Foundation. All right, we will vote on it - it was an amendment and Article 7 was made - in order to provide an immediate solution. But that's how we go, like, with temporary patches? It is certain that the problem will be restored once state funding is continued. He'll come back and grow up. So the solution - and we are saying that - must come from the government with a generous funding not only of the Sikarian Foundation, but also of all the special education institutions, so that they can function properly, escape from the lullaby of reciprocity, the state to finance them, the workers must have a permanent and stable job and, of course, the services to children who have a particular need to be absolutely free of charge. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Finally, Mr President, I would like to say that we do not simply have technical or procedural disagreements with your policy, as the other parties do. We oppose you in terms of a strategy on health and education, promoting the single 12-year-old school of modern general education to the market school you are building. This school with the struggles of the people, with its own power, will take place, because it needs it and our people deserve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u78	Thank you, too. We proceed with the next special speaker of ANEL, Mr. Katsiki. Mr. Katsiki, here, you have the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u79	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this bill, as it is known from its work in committees, consists of two parts and a total of seven articles. Dialogue with the non-parliamentary bodies has proved highly constructive and several legislative improvements have been made on the part of the Ministry of Education. According to the Act, the government has responded to the need to legislate on the selection of primary and secondary schools directors following the decision of April of the Council of State, number 711/2016, which considered the previous Law to be unconstitutional in the former Law No.4327/2015, concerning the selection of directors in education. An enduring attempt by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government is to deal with pathogens that go back to decades ago. The proposed regulation moves within the limits which are removed from the principle of equality and which exclude unequal treatment in the form of charitable measures, not linked to evaluation criteria. The way in which the selection and placement of primary and secondary school establishments and workshops are regulated is absolutely democratic, democratic and transparent. However, as I did at the committee meeting, I will do so now and will highlight those which, in our opinion, could be proposals for improvement, which are necessary and necessary to ensure the reliability of the legislation. We are not negative, as we have said and repeated, in the vote on this article and others, of course. It is our role that we believe contributes to the improvement of the legislation, which is why we are making these points once again. As I said yesterday, Minister, there are points which I am coming back to, and now by pointing out again, since I noticed that none of your legislative improvements were included. My first comment, therefore, once again concerns the evaluation procedure for the candidates for the post of directors and, in particular, the drafting of an opinion on the candidates for permanent teachers. There are many questions about ensuring equal treatment of candidates. For example, we have a posted to another educational service, such as, for example, the central agency of the Ministry of Education or its institutions, which will be interested in positions of school directors. What training club will draw up the practice to the board if and if we accept that in other cases candidates for school managers will have to answer the comments of their colleagues with them? That's on one side. On the other hand, as you said, this will not be counted and will not be counted for the final assessment of the candidate for a school head office. Another question: How will he ensure this parameter of his evaluation, Minister? So we insist, in our proposal, that there should be no involvement of the teachers' associations in the selection process of school directors, fearing that this will lead to conflicts between teachers, which will disrupt the school environment and the co-operation, with unique losers, perhaps, the children of all of us. A further comment, which I have noted yesterday, relates to the ban on admission to the same school unit for those who already have two terms of terms in it. And to note that this ban is contrary to the principles of equality and dignity. Although you were committed to solving this, Minister, by tabling legislative improvements, I note that it has not been included in the legislative improvements you have tabled. In addition, the restriction of the submission of applications to a single regional primary or secondary school board is such as to deprive teachers of the opportunity to exercise management in schools in another region of their preference. I would also like to add that the certification of second-degree information and communication technologies should be carried out. Some teachers have succeeded and received the specific certification. It would therefore be unfair not to modulate the moment that there is provision for moleculosis in the first-degree certification. I would also like to point out that, for reasons of merit and equal opportunities - foreign level B2 language certificates should remain at the molecules of 0.5 units, as is currently the case and not to increase their molecules to 0.8 units, since a draft proportional increase of molecules has not been provided for the holders of foreign language certificates above level B2, but this moleculosis remains in one unit as it was. Furthermore, in the subject that emerged in the calculation of the term of office of school advisors as a teaching service, I did not notice any change. As school advisors are an institution over a period of time renowned, staffed with people of acquaintance for training, who are thus totally deprived with zero modulation for years serving this institution. We consider the request of the school advisors fair, as expressed by their trade union body and we have not so far noticed any of your reasons for rejecting it. The second part of the draft law regulates issues relating to the administration of higher education institutions, in particular, as legislation is imminent to change the way the administration bodies are elected. In order for the new institutions to be elected on the basis of the new provisions in paragraphs 1 and 2 of that article, the term of office of the administrative bodies elected by the current provisions shall be extended for another three months. Provisions relating to secondments and dispositions of special assistant and scientific staff are also provided and arrangements are proposed aimed at ensuring that special education and training schools and the inclusion departments are properly trained. There is also provision for the operation of professional high school annexes on islands which do not operate in a professional high school, thus facilitating the island students in their school and giving the new professional perspective to stay in the place where they live. The constitutional commitment to insularity is guaranteed and the right to equal opportunities of our children in education is respected, regardless of the area where they are and the social difficulties they face. We insist on our proposal to set up and operate sections of tourist professions in professional high school in areas with increased tourist movement. And as I have said at times and I repeat today, it is a great incentive to biopolitics problems solved by people who live in islands and, above all, barren areas, when they can study that object that grows most in tourism, because the islands are a tourist destination. Therefore, tourist professions, when taught by professional high school, will give an incentive to stay for the people who acquire a diploma from there, but also for a biopolitics incentive, which, to a large extent, in our view will also combat the issue of police and search in other places of better professional luck. So all these arrangements are moving towards solving chronic problems in education and restoring the proper functioning of educational units. As far as Article 5 is concerned, which replaces provisions of Law 3512/2006 concerning the administrative operation of the Islamic mosque of Athens and more specifically, it is decided that a new legal person of private law, supervised and financed by the Ministry of Education and, in particular, the Management Committee of the Islamic mosques of Athens, should be established for the purpose of administering, managing and maintaining the Islamic mosques, our position is clear and stable. We have formulated it over time and, if anything, it would be inconsistent to vote in favour of the fifth article on the functioning of the mosque when we voted against its establishment and construction in 2016. Also, an important reason why we are voting against this provision is the fact that the Greek state budget and the little money of Greek taxpayers are being donated. I should like to point out that in no state or, above all, Muslim, there is no provision for the donation of orthodox worshippers. Of course, I cannot comment on my fellow rapporteurs, among others, in this article, who, on their position, starting from the rapporteur of the New Democracy, burned down the issue of differentiation between the ANELs for this particular article. I would therefore like to point out at this point that Mr Zouraris remains consistent in his previous view and position on the Muslim mosque, since he had then voted in favour, and he also signs today the bill that has been introduced and we are currently discussing. And you know, we in the Independent Greeks have the privilege of voting and acting consciously, something that may be lacking, because we must absolutely respect that common line, often contrary to the will, political will and the conscience of fellow Members. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In a minute, Mr President. It is one reason to point out that our party, and that is why it differs from those that burn our position and use any differentiation between us, on the basis of our conscience. The fact that our Chief gives us many times the right to act and vote against is a difference for us, compared to others and gives us the comparative advantage. Furthermore, I would like to say that the construction and operation of the mosque - because I want to explain our attitude to some extent and in relation to SYRIZA's colleagues too - is in line with the ideological outline of the SYRIZA colleagues and this is absolutely respected. Their approaches to anxiety religion and humanism are compatible with their current attitude. We respect their views and understand their approach. On the contrary, however, you, gentlemen of the New Democracy, with Christian education and your commitment to Christian ideals, how do you accept this provision? How did you accept and vote for a multi-cost construction and today you are also voting in favour of the operation of this structure? So how do you express your objections and what is this majesty of your hypocrisy, which you have now developed from this Step? Until now, you have criticised the SYRIZA-ANEL coexistence of the plan, which was voted for in Parliament and concerned the measures. "You have suffered" as to how much the Greek people are suffering and how much money they are burdened with, so that we can conclude an agreement. But today you do not take into account how much the Greek people are being charged to cover the operating costs of the Muslim mosque from the state budget. The Democratic Reconciliation does the same. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] I wanted to say more, but unfortunately, I don't have the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u80	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, forty-seven students and students and two educational attendants from the 1st Marcopoulou High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We're on our way to the Special Rapporteur of the Central Association, Mr. Megalo-Economist. Mrs. Big Housekeeper, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u81	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today's debate comes after just two days of meetings in the respective committee, again in the form of the urgency, without consultation. Unfortunately, it has become common now to discuss urgent and urgent procedures, instead of these being the exception to the rule, as it should be. In this case, the accelerated procedure did not only mean that we did not have time to discuss, as we should, with the relevant bodies, but the main problem is that the teachers, who are mainly concerned with the bill, did not have the necessary time to come up with specific proposals on all the issues. Because, of course, it is not just a question of coming to Parliament and of having a negative thought on government bills. The parliamentary procedure is, above all, important to be able to bring about improved proposals and not to be completely negative. If we can, we can offer. That is the concept of the Greek Parliament. Today's bill is essentially divided into two parts, the first section refers to the way the school's directors are played. One can in the first instance consider this to be a completely formal and administrative matter. In fact, however, it is a role that is extremely critical for the proper functioning of the school, but also for the development of the school. In particular, each school unit is a large, multi-popular, living organization, which is not missing every day's problems, tensions, contradictions, and in this context it is extremely important that school administration and, above all, the manager. It is therefore extremely crucial for us to choose for the Director's position, people capable and worthy. The address requires both administrative and educational skills. So, with today's bill, the choice of directors is significantly altering. One factor, which we stressed from the outset, is what is being done literally at the last minute and essentially brings the entire educational community, for the existing managers, before new, sudden changes. The whole question of education is at some point to achieve a combination of views and to make decisions that last and not every time a government changes to change the legislative framework for education. It's unthinkable. Both parents and children and teachers are deeply afflicted, not knowing what will happen the next day. Only in this way will every member of the educational community be able to make their planning, whether he is an educational, parent or student. We are fed up with hearing that education is a matter in which there are no micropolitical, controversy and that for all necessary changes, there should be exhaustive dialogue. Unfortunately, I do not see this dialogue. We are sick of our hopes being disproved. In this respect, the mobilisation of the appointment of directors in Article 1 has all changes in relation to the selection of school unit directors. The representatives of teachers as a whole expressed a number of doubts as well as reactions to individual arrangements. The best thing would be for there to be as many improvements in the text of the bill as possible to finally find the gold incision. In particular, Article 1(4) shall record which is regarded as a teaching service. And at this point, several things have changed. The term of office of the school advisor, environmental education, health education, cultural matters and others shall be abolished from the list of cases calculated as a teaching service. I would like to make a special reference to school advisors and their exclusion, because so far there has been no substantial explanation from the Ministry for why this is happening. On the other hand, we have stressed from the outset that at least the school advisors are carrying out information seminars - provided by law - which are within their teaching tasks. It is therefore completely unreasonable, all of a sudden, that this term of office should not be recognized. I find it unacceptable, Minister. You can't deprive them of it. So, those who control schools, who do seminars, who draw up new programs, don't they have the right to become managers? I can't understand your thoughts.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u82	What do you mean they don't have the right?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u83	It's about school advisors. You're saying they can't take part as managers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u84	The molecule...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u85	The molecule, yes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u86	..................................................................................................................................................................... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u87	When the Minister's turn comes, he can answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u88	You're not talking on the microphone, Minister. We are not talking about the debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u89	It's about molecules, but why don't you give them molecules and exclude them? On the part of moleculosis, those who are running for managers - now I would say - have several objections to the number of molecules given on a case-by-case basis. In my opinion, the most serious omission of the bill is that there is no reference anywhere to compulsory knowledge of the handling of computers. It is rather obvious that using a computer in everyday life is extremely necessary. There is virtually no office work and administrative position that can be done without a computer. So, if anything, the head of a school should be certified to know how to handle computers. As we say about foreign languages, she has certified proof that she knows foreign languages so on computers. I now come to one of the most thorny issues in the bill, which is the way in which the interview will take place and the role that the school board will have. As you know, the big problem arose when the Council of State decided that the process that has been followed so far by a law brought by your Government was unconstitutional. In particular, the Council of State considers that they cannot have decisive authority over who will be the next director and assistant teachers serving at a school, since they are lacking legality. Also, the decisions taken so far by the teachers' boards had no grounds for justifying them, with the risk of completely arbitrary choices being made. So this bill comes and brings some changes to the whole system. The key role in the selection will be the regional councils responsible for interviewing potential managers. The opinion of the co-sponsored teachers will now be consultative and not binding on the final decision. As the Union of Centres and I personally do not disagree in general with the existence of collective procedures, such as, for example, expressing opinions or deciding on a large number of people as a whole. That is just as much as the core of democracy: everyone taking part in decisions and not one or a few. Generally speaking, the problem is not that all teachers of the candidate's school will have a role again, but the question arises whether this is objective and enough. On the contrary, the Central Association is already proposing different thoughts from the committee stage to broaden the body of the people who will be consulted so that the opinion to be more just can be seen. Thus, we propose taking into account, among other things, the opinion of fellow teachers, for example, in the last seven - eight years, or even for a candidate who has been a director at a school in the past, that his colleagues be consulted by that school, since they had known him better in practice in the exercise of his administrative duties. The provision therefore has scope for improvement. With regard to the interview that the candidate is going through at this stage and with the wording that we have in the bill, I would like to say that we have no idea how the interview will take place, for its minimum period of time, on its subject matter. All this, as we all understand, is extremely important so that we can see whether we are talking about a credible process. Generally speaking, I do not think we should take advantage of any attempt to get the process of interviewing the public sector into the public domain. On the contrary. In all western countries it is almost selfish to interview. And that is the model that has been followed in the private sector for decades now, especially for a person who is judged as a whole, as a person and not as a person's standard qualifications only on paper. But because in our country we are quite behind these issues and there is still a lot of suspicion about the procedures that are more subjective, such as the interview, which is why we strongly stress that all the questions of the interview must be dealt with in detail and clearly in the bill, so that there is no sign of doubt, Minister, of doubt. The Ministry should have paid particular attention to this issue. Subsequently, in paragraph 7, paragraph 2, the terms of office that one may have as director in just two are generally limited. There has been a commitment by the Minister to this provision that it will be withdrawn or even improved. But we have not yet seen any change. I think all sides realise that it's rather unlikely that someone from the manager's position has managed to bring serious changes to school in just two terms. And in any case there is no special and extremely important reason to force us to hold a manager for so little time. Article 3 changes the criteria for the secondment of permanent teachers to special treatment structures. Beyond the practical issues arising from this article, I would like on this basis to refer to the thorny subject of the subscribing of special education structures. We had the opportunity to see this in the margins of this bill. I think it is necessary for this House to be informed of this issue. The relevant teachers' representatives have informed us, following my question, that the number of alternates who have been in employment in recent years has increased. What has been pointed out, however, is that many more still need. Stability and durability are required with respect to the strains of the special treatment. Recruitment of alternates each year causes a problem for students. In fact, I've visited all the special schools in my district. If every year they change teachers that the children don't know, they can't adapt. They even mind the light that's changing, especially if they have autism. So the students remain in their homes until the special staff are recruited, while the change of teachers, as I said before, causes great problems for children. We all know how slow the procedures in the CEDs are due to the total lack of qualified personnel. And I checked those. They're not stationed and they're making three years for the children to pass through the committee. It is, in my view, a major issue of the specific treatment it needs to deal with, since it comes to the quality of education provided. Article 4 provides for certain arrangements for lifelong learning, vocational education and apprenticeship. Generally speaking, this provision seems to be moving in a positive direction and gives some important information on the process of registering in the post-training year of apprenticeship class. Finally, I would like to comment on a few points on Article 5 and on the Islamic mosque of Athens. As we all know, the question of mosques has been effectively solved for a long time. Initially under Law 3512/2006, which has already established the basic principles for the establishment and operation of the mosque since 2006. Therefore, the main issues have long been identified. Thus, this draft law stipulates first of all that the management committee of the mosque is a legal person of a non-profit-making nature and, furthermore, the possible resources and incomes of the mosque are extended and detailedly recorded. The main changes in relation to the original law concern the composition of the seven-member board of directors. First of all, the position of the Director-General of Religion has created the objective need to be replaced by people with another position and speciality. A further change also relates to the fact that two representatives of the Municipality of Athens, who participate in the board of directors, are identified more specifically. I consider it reasonable and justified that one should be a public official in order to be a good interconnector between the board of directors of the mosques for the Municipality of Athens. In general, this issue is particularly sensitive and I find that the choices made for the administration of the mosques are reasonable and are directed towards involving persons who are primarily experienced by administrative procedures. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Please give me a minute of your tolerance, Mr President. This must also be the main objective of ensuring that the mosque is well managed and functioning, so that respect for the unworthy religion provided for in our Constitution is fully respected, but also that the religious feeling of the majority of Greek citizens is not caused. Any other rhetoric that aims only at the popular feeling, without calculating the overall good of Greece, cannot be accepted on our part and serves only micro-political interests. Overall, the bill includes, at the same time, arrangements with which we are not in agreement, regulations that we agree and provisions that need to be improved, adapted, so that they can be implemented without reaction from the educational world. I would like to talk to the ANE and I do not mean personally. But now you've been caught feeling guilty of the mosque? So Muslims cannot exercise their religious rights? When you vote for the measures and the memorials and conquer the Greek people and bury them in a meter of land, does emotional consciousness not work for you? Don't you have any remorse? Now you have for the mosque? But of course, you do it so you don't lose the Church. You said so, if we want to lower the government, the Church tells us and we take it down. Adequate religion must be seen. Well, I don't accept that. You're doing a small policy. You are with the government, but you do not vote for what is not of interest to you so that you do not lose your voters. Well, admit it and accept it. That's a micropolitic of ANELs. If you don't like and you don't like to leave the government. I'm telling you, and note it. I'm on it. As a Union of Centres, always loyal to our principles, we will support the articles that are in line with our views and, of course, we will vote against what we regard as absurd and against the interests of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, too. Mr Mavrotas, a special speaker of the river, now has the floor for fifteen minutes. Here you go, Mr. Black.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u91	Thank you, Mr President. This bill came under the urgency procedure because the "Balta-Kourakis" law was considered unconstitutional for selecting training executives. He's coming to fix a previous mistake in a hurry. ‘Legislation by test and error method’. It is used as a mathematical method, but not as a legislative method. And that is wrong in this key issue to improve our country's education, namely the choice of training executives, the choice of leaders. We should normally discuss this, agree, disagree for two or more months and not for two days. I would like to make a comment here, Mr Minister, which I have also made in committee, on whether we need to put the title 'and other provisions', because there are not just education issues in the bill, there is a fifth article with the Islamic mosque. Let's start with Article 1. It concerns the selection of training staff. There are three main criteria: scientific competence, with the various titles which everyone has, experience, pre-service, annual and finally personality, which is assessed in substance by the interview. While earlier the law placed greater importance on scientific competence, then on personality and at the end of service, things are now changing. Priority plays a key role, following scientific qualifications and at the end, personality. The whole case in such a situation of evaluation of training managers is what factors of gravity we will give these three criteria, namely what will be the relationship between them, and that is expressed in terms of mobilisation. Do we want the four years of pre-service to be equivalent to a doctorate? Four molecules one, four molecules the other. We have to discuss this and agree. We should also decide what directors we want in our schools and not who are closer to the ears of power. That is how we need to define the criteria. Do we want managers of handlers or instigators of the school community? Let's get them one by one. As far as pre-service is concerned, we are basically only counting the years in the class, regardless of whether anyone is friendly and gives his soul into the classroom, and whether anyone is indifferent and sees his watch when the time will pass. If they serve 15 years, they take the same molecules and the indifferent even more relaxed one. But can the indifferent become a good manager? Oh, no. What does that mean? It means we have to break the taboo of the evaluation of teachers. Without extremities and extremism, we don't have to rediscover the wheel. There is international experience today and social consensus. Society wants it, it's the esteemed teachers who want it. The only ones who don't want it may be the trade unionists. The criterion of modulation of the teaching service, which is the second one, should actually be reviewed, because there is an injustice in changing the rules in the middle of the game, in the half time. In other words, people who knew that their term of office counts as a teaching service and took their decision in this regard - such as school advisors, managers, workers in environmental education centres and other bodies - whether they should be given a transitional period or somehow there should be a moleculus factor here too. Let it not be the molecules of some kind in the classroom, but let it not be the ballots of the unusable ones in these years. Also, those who teach in universities with the a.d. 407, which is done on the basis of a departmental decision, rather than those who are simply posted to universities, should actually be recognized as a pre-service. And of course not with funny a molecule of maxims for all the years you've taught. I always live in the teaching service. Finally, it is unclear whether this draft law also refers to a pre-service in the private sector for molecules, or whether this should be explicitly entered. Another piece has to do with scientific qualifications. There is a, not unjustified, suspicion against postgraduate qualifications, some can be just papers, without real content. However, the way we do, along with the green, burns down. What is needed is strict control, can be done by the IATA, and not because we cannot control something, we can abolish it. This means that each teacher's effort for training and improvement is needed. We fly along with the bath and the child. As the subject of the relevance of the titles should also be stressed in relation to the role that the Director is required to play. The titles relevant to the subject of the organisation and management of education should be modulated and modulated more than those not relevant to the organisation and management of titles. A doctorate in the organization and administration of education must not mobilise himself with a doctorate, for example, in geology or astrophysics for the specific work we want, namely for the selection of training managers, training managers. Let the relevant title, for example, take six molecules and three molecules or not relevant. Training. Of course, we should not continue to make a reduction in the qualifications of the various teachers. You insist on the maximum availability of training certificates up to a maximum of one unit, while the oldest law summed up what was per category of training. Here too, what we need is quality control, that is to say, if the training has real content, because otherwise if we lower them, it is essentially a stimulus to the training of managers and thus undermines the modern trend in lifelong education. Let's go to foreign language and information and communications technologies. We propose that there should be differentiation by level of language learning, as there was in the oldest law, as there is in the ADP. The Ministry of Information and Communication Technologies chooses to respect Article 19(2) of Law No.4327/2017 on the basis of which third-level IT and communication technologies-trained, which are the main computer usage, take half of the molecule, while computers are legally excluded from this molecule. But the school director of the 20th century must have digital skills. I'm not only saying to send an e-mail or be able to enter the internet, but to handle my school, to have a say in the creation and operation of the school website. Digital skills are not luxury today, but they are an undeniable necessity. [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis, takes over the presidential office.]] We're going to interview issues, which we've heard a lot about. The interview is not a bad thing, as long as it has a credibility and objectivity. It must be structured and taped, as in all public on the basis of L.4369/2016 to ensure objectivity. In addition, on the matter of the Board of Governors' selection, we should look at the issue of elected representatives. In the end, should the elected representatives have the role to play in the procedures so that no one is wronged and not involved in the votes? We must also open this issue. Another issue which has been raised by the committees and which we have heard from many institutions is the time for submitting the statement of the school units, namely the preferences of the candidates. We have also heard it from the institutions, and we have tabled an amendment to that effect. Candidate directors report schools after the evaluation has been completed and know their rating, i.e. after the interview, that is to say, in the pan-Hellenic exams, students first see their score and then declare schools so that there is no possibility of "cooking" of the interview.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u92	It's done, Mr. Black.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u93	I'm glad to hear that, Minister. In fact, I had noted here that I thought you'd see it positively. You've already seen it positive. Let's go to Article 3. Here, in the large list of services which maintain general or specific secondments of staff exceptionally the single mobility system, other services of the Ministry of Education, public and private legal persons and OAED services are added. We would like a little further to explain why this is being done, because it is not fully understood. We would also very much like you to answer a question we have asked since September 2016, when the Minister was Mr. Friends for how many posted teachers in parties, ministries and other bodies are. We don't think this is a state secret so you won't let us know. We shall now go to paragraph 2 of Article 3 on special treatment. This provision is quite vague, as the institutions would have mentioned, and it concerns the fact that in cases where special treatment is required, teachers of other qualifications at the same address may be placed. It is not just a question of covering gaps in special education, but also of the quality of education, otherwise the results will be doubtful. Article 4 concerns vocational training. It is a key topic for vocational training in which our country should evolve and upgrade it. So each step must be well studied. The wording of the provision, as it is, is unclear which teachers will be used as a priority in the activities referred to, apprenticeships and so on. We are not, however, negative in this effort to upgrade vocational and technical education as far as possible. Finally, I would like the Minister to give some clarification in his speech about the issue that has arisen with the EDPS and the EDPS, in order to clarify it, because there is one concern, as to whether they are entitled to remuneration from research programmes and doctoral grants. Furthermore, the framework of the Higher Military Training Institutions, the School of Icarons, Testimoniums, Hopes, etc. should, in our view, also be harmonized with the framework of universities, which has its impact on what we voted on last week. In the last five minutes, let me refer to Article 5 on the Islamic mosque. It's probably delivered next month, and there's got to be an administrative board that's going to receive it. In relation to Mrs Giannakou's L.3512/2006, a progressive - frankly - change to staffing is taking place for the time of the law. Some of these changes are dictated by the circumstances, such as the change in the organizational chart of the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs, while others are government choices, such as the change in the two members proposed by the Municipality of Athens and those proposed by the Muslim communities. We would also like - and we have mentioned it to the committees - the Presidential Decree on the Agency for the Operation of the Islamic mosque to come into public consultation in order to maximise social dialogue on the subject. It is a matter of human rights which our country is already exposed to. If he reaches the House and sticks, then the message he passes is that the Greek state refuses basic rights. That is why, as I said emphatically as rapporteur and in the committees, we will vote for it without reservations. There are no discounts or toys on rights. But there's one thing. When you work together, how much more when you co-operate with someone, you don't have to agree to everything. You have to agree on the basics and keep your differences on the theoretically minor issues. Is it for you of the government, gentlemen of SYRIZA, the issue of human rights of minor importance? What are the most important issues with which you agree with Annells and co-government, so that you can overcome this? Power is the adhesive? The war against the interlocutory? The interlocutory of others, of course, because they have begun to emerge in your days as well. Here you are due to a great "excuse" at Potami, which since it came to the fore, has been muddled, along with the media and your trolls. Because it was the only thing that didn't have skeletons in the closet. You said that, 'Bobola Party', 'the party of interlocutory', 'the canalarchs'. What do you have to say now, when these things you slandered us about, we see them in your yard? On the subject of mourners we could be tempted to create a mini-governmental crisis, without any concern about whether we are going to be exposed as a country. We don't do it, just like we didn't do it in other cases. We never wore the party shirt over the highway. We never put parties above rights. That is why we are the Potami! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u94	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House the topical and urgent question issue of Friday 26 May 2017. Oh, I'm sorry. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 858/19-5-2017 by Mr Mario Salma, Member of Parliament, concerning the OPEKEPE cross-checks in Leppenos Atolokarnania. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 863/22-5-2017 by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Kingdom Kegeroglou to the Minister of the Interior, concerning the immediate treatment of the problem that has arisen with contractors in OTA cleanliness. 3. The Question No 856/17-5-2017 by MP Pireas of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nicholas Kouzilou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject of "additional Greek seafarers' pension". 4. The Question No 861/22-5/2017 by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the cancellation of the certificates of people with chronic illnesses from the Disability Certification Centres (CEPD). 5. The question by No. 857/18-5-2017 of the Athens MP, Georgios Amyras, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, about museum hours and archaeological sites during the summer season. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 859/19-5-2017 by MP Magnesia of New Democracy Mr Christos Boukokouros to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport on tourism with light aircraft. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 860/22-5/2017 by MP of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Antonio Gregos to the Minister of the Interior, on “the desecration of the sacred monument of the “Unknown Soldier”, as a result of continuous impunity.” 3. The Question No 862-22-5-2017 by F' Vice-President of Parliament and MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.George Lamproulis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the problems of the operation and the plan for the closure of the Chronicles of Children's Chronic Paths of Scaramaga. "B" A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 869/23-5-2017 by the Member of the Dodecanese Coalition of the Radical Left, Elias Kamaterou to the Minister of Environment and Energy, on the subject: "PDO (Organised Development Area) in Kalymnos". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Kozani of New Democracy Mr Georgios Kasapidis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: “The epidemic insect attacks on forest ecosystems cause loss of income to farmers in Kosani prefecture. Unexploded 100 cm. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 3. The Question No 874/23-5-2017 by MP II Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Sakis Vardalis to the Finance and National Defence Ministers on the Greek Vehicle Industry "ELVO ABE". B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by number 870/23-5-2017 of the MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Nikolaou Syrmaleneou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Short constructions and violations of beaches in Mykonos". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 865/22-5-2017 by MP Athens, New Democracy, Anna - Michel Asmakopoulou to the Minister of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, on the television signal in remote areas. 3. Under No 88/23-5-2017, a topical question by the Independent MEP, Mr. Nicholas Nikolaopoulos, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: “Take back the money”, what the President of Switzerland D replied. Lloyd?’ 4. The Question No 622/20-3-2017 by MP Magnesia of the New Democracy, Christou Boukorou, to the Minister of the Interior, concerning the payment of the transport of students by means of special student cards with public transport. 5. The Question by MP Laconia of New Democracy Mr Athanasios Davakis to the Minister of Health about the further weakening of the Centre for Health of the Municipality of Sparta. 6. The question raised by Mr Dimitrios Kyriazides on the implementation of the road construction project “Drama – Amphipolis” under number 711/10-4-2017. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The Question by Mr. Dimitrios Sevastakis, Member of the Radical Left Coalition, Mr. Dimitrios Sevastakis, Minister for Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, on the reopening of Sami TV and the framework for the proper functioning of regional media. 8. The current question by MP Kilkis of New Democracy Mr Georgios Georgios Georgiodas to the Minister of Migration Policy, concerning the lack of information on the housing of refugees in Kilkis. 9. The question raised by Mr Georgios Amyras at number 737/11-4-2017 about the 'SIEMENS' case. 10. The Question No 738/11-4-2017 by Evia MP of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Michou to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Without any updates, illegal immigrants were installed in the Penteli High School." 11. The question by No 742/21-4-2017, by MEP II Pireos of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, about the huge charges on PPC accounts. 12. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, Minister for Health, about the functioning of the Psychiatric Clinic of the General Hospital of Chania "Agios GEORGIOS". 13. Observations of the Court of Justice The question raised by Mr Eleftherios Aygenakis, Member of Parliament, Mr Eleftherios Aygenakis, Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Building new public works services - weakening the Agency for the Development of Crete (OAK) - to put an end to public works in Crete". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 288525-1-2017 question by MP Drama of New Democracy Mr Dimitrios Kyriazides to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs about the government's intentions regarding the operation and future of the Department of Architecture of Eastern Macedonia and Thrace based in Drama. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question of the privatisation of regional airports by MP I, Mr Ioannis Saridis, Mr Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister of Economy and Development. 3. The question by No 2795/23-1-2017 of the Deputy Drama of New Democracy Mr Dimitrios Kyiazididis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: "An exception to the financial management of the Drama Therapy Centre". We are continuing the debate on the bill. The Minister has the floor, Mr Gavroglou. Mr Minister, if you are ready, in other words at the end of your speech - otherwise you can make an intervention - tell us from the parliamentary amendments which you are accepting. If you're not ready now, as long as the conversation goes on, you'll tell us. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Mr President. There is an anti-population mania to speak for a long time about procedural, sometimes justifiable, sometimes not justified. We must make it clear here that the reason why the bill is urgent has to do with when the decision of the Council of State was notified to us. It's not whether we knew her or not, if we knew what the rapporteur said. It is the exact wording according to which the law is made. So we did not know the exact wording. If other parties knew her, they'd tell us, let's see how they knew her. Now I want a little bit to analyse the content of each pillar, on the basis of which moleculosis is taking place and someone is chosen or not selected as director or director. First, it's the subject of scientific competence. The issue of scientific competence must be seen in a way that we can understand what the dominant element is. The dominant element is not the multitude of diplomas. The dominant element is a systemicity in the scientific development of the candidate. Is it wrong to have people who have a second degree from the university, a second postgraduate degree? Obviously, they're not, and there's a lot of them. But what we need to be clear - and I say this about now - is that what is of great interest to education is how, with its degrees, it can incorporate what it has learned in its everyday life. And there's always the big difficulty. We propose something, I think it has generally been accepted, but let us also discuss the future. What is much more complex is the issue of pre-service. On pre-service again we have to see what the main element is, what is the core of reflection when we say that pre-service plays a major role. For us, the dominant element is the function within the classroom, we've said it and said it again. However, the function within the class exceeds the function with chalk and a table. The function within the class is an extremely complex function. It is a function that requires the teacher to play both the counselor's role and the role, many times, of the parent and the role, many times, of the psychologist and roles that, many times, are not ready to play, but it sees in the eyes of the children that he is obliged to play. It's all our experience, thousands of teachers not to rest in breaks, not to go home on time, because they want to sit with a child, a teenager, and talk to him. That doesn't modulate, breaking our heads. That's why we say that teaching in the class is in a typical way, depending on how many years you have, but not to degrade by saying that function in the class is just to do your lesson, while in other institutions you have served there you also do your lesson, so why not compare the two kinds "I do lesson". I'm teaching it in class, it's very demanding, it's very responsible. I'm teaching it in class - I insist - that goes beyond the subject of the transmission of knowledge. We, that is what we want, that is what we emphasise and that is the sovereign. Now, there, obviously, additional opportunities or experiences of teaching should be mobilized. Because, indeed, teaching is a multifaceted thing, it is not just teaching in order. They are depending on the age of people, who may not only be children, can be of another type of training, etc. What we are saying, especially for environmental centres, is that it can be considered as teaching, only that it has a ceiling. The same - Mrs Megalo-Economics left - also applies to school advisors. But what does not apply, what one does not have to count twice what he has done. I hope we all agree on that. So you can't get anything from what you've served and something about the special function of what you've served. It's not just a pair of us. We think that after the discussions, the proposal is more rationalized than it was before. I think that is something we need to do positively, because the debate has taken up these issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u96	So, you made changes, Minister, to that?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u97	Yes, you will see it in the legal systems as to the moulation of UCLAFs and others. We must not waste time, that is a technical matter. But I insist that the substance be maintained. Otherwise I understand that there are also social groups that are pushing from here. One cannot figure out whether this is the only criterion to go forward. Third theme is interview. Look, the interview has a sinful past. In fact, I'd say he has a very sinful past. We are bringing it back, because we believe that interview is an important tool, it is an important process. We bring her back with low molecules. Also, in the interview one of the things to be done is to take account of the club’s opinion. We have heard things here, like the interview must be objective. You know, between objective and subjective, there's a huge space. It's not ending the subjective somewhere and the subjective starts immediately afterwards. When there are people and not machines, then institutions such as interviews, institutions such as the club's opinion are gaining wealth, gaining pluralism, because people are judging. So, what we are saying is, obviously, that there are all the checks, so that there is absolutely no arbitraryness - to remind of a sinful past - but at the same time, at the same time, we are all going generously to a dynamic step forward, to claim and regain the interview. This thing - which is in the conscience of many, because people have suffered - which is so disgraceful, we bring it back, saying that we all have to protect it together. However, it should also be safeguarded at the same time, because renovation of these means renovation of daily practices and, above all, practical crises, expressions of opinion, etc. That is why we think there is no way of expressing the clubs' opinion or that one way is more democratic than the other. Taking into account and expressing an opinion is a very difficult process, it is a process that forces people to discuss. I can tell you that there is a risk that there will be no emphasis on this and that we will only place on the printing board, where democracy will ultimately be degenerated on procedural issues, I will vote or I will not vote and leave. It's not that simple democracy. It's a more complex involvement with everyday life and people next to us. That is why we say that we are moving within the framework of the decisions of the Council of State and we think that we are guaranteeing the functioning of democracy at school and also in the bodies that will take their decisions at a level of democracy - I can tell you - and one step further ahead of the situation that already exists. There's been a whole story about the term of office. Fortunately, Mr. Constantopoulos goes - he comes back and doesn't interrupt me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u98	I expect to hear what you will say about the transition I have asked, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u99	Mr. Comrade, please sit down. The Minister's begged you too, but all right, let's lighten the climate.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u100	It's light. Excuse me, Mr. President. Look, whoever they're trying to apply for now doesn't play anyone at all how many years they've served as managers. Are we going well? Clear? But the matter of the term of office is being discussed at the same time. You didn't want any conversations? Let us not discuss the matter of terminology in a week's time. Let's talk about it in a few years' time. But let us discuss what theoretical, first of all, a matter. So when you exercise a social function, should you or should you not have terms of office? Because we all have to accept that when we are in a post, when we do a job, the trend is to become bureaucratic. Those here who are older MPs, you know that, you know that there is such a tendency. There are special relationships with individuals who develop because of friendship, chemistry, anything. These aren't good things. Others are the manager of respecting them all and others are the manager through a daily life and after many years creating situations that are not good for the school. Does that mean there have to be terms of birth? Not necessarily. Or should there be no terms of birth? So what we're talking about is to talk about it. We do not commit to next term. We have a long time ahead of us to discuss it calmly, calmly, etc. What has come to my attention - we have also told the Committee on Morphic Affairs over the past two days and today - is the refusal of colleagues to take a position on whether or not they consider the club's opinion to be positive.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u101	We did, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u102	Yes or no, Mrs. Kerameau?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u103	He's being mobilized?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u104	What if he mobilizes himself? No, that answers the question of whether he's being mobilised. I'm asking you another question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u105	We don't want the popular, we want him worth it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u106	Yeah, but why the club opinion? You see, this is deeply underestimated by colleagues. Mrs. Kerameau said we want him worthy, not the popular. But doesn't that underestimate people's judgment? Why, in other words, should people suggest only populars and not worthy ones and not worthy ones? Why, in other words, do some in this society have the privilege of fairness? We believe that the associations have complete freedom and maturity to propose those who are proposing. I'm sure some people won't suggest worthy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u107	Evaluate, word "jiz"!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u108	Don't make such an interactive conversation now. We'll never finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u109	I say that some will not be worthy, but let us not undermine the procedures at the outset. And we are sure that those who are worthy to take up these tasks will emerge. But be careful now. They are not worthy of an evaluation made with a card with infinite questions, and one has raised thirty - eight molecules and the other twelve. This is not a statement of goodwill. Because you're actually saying that. You say we quantify social life. That's what's going on. I can tell you that the appalling pressures that we have on many occasions and on the issue of moleculosis do not help democracy. On the other hand, quantification obviously normalizes situations, it enables you to move forward. But what the New Democracy says and what the JRC says is: get rid of the record first and then we see about the club.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u110	The New Democracy is not asking for the abolition.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u111	No, I'm calling the JRC. First of all, we - perhaps you know - are already moving on to a change in the record. That's the first. Secondly, we proceed with the drafting of the presidential decree on the school unit. He's already been to the Council of State. Thirdly, we have discussions with the Children's Counselor to see how we can best move on to the issues of student communities. But look, the JRC had this problem: in view of a paradise that will come at some point, it thinks it's okay, today's hell is fine. There are no attempts to strengthen raisins, cracks, new initiatives in a more democratic direction. Invoking the general in order not to take a position on the expert does not, I think, help anyone. A number of things have been said, such as waiting for the loss that is going to be done with the bill that we are going to go down for higher education, etc. You'll see the bill. We think it brings very positive provisions. One of them today I would like to announce. The five-year degrees must be the integrated master. But be careful: Last night the Technical Chamber with a unanimous decision decided to proceed with the creation of a department for the registration of graduate engineers of TEI. We should welcome this initiative. It opens the door to solve business issues, which have been sixty years between the engineers of the multi-technical schools and the engineers of the TEI. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] We must welcome the initiative of the Chamber of Technical Chambers and all the branches, because it was unanimous. And the law, the bill, will have to secure this difference between the polytechnic and the TEI so that the solution of such a serious social problem can be opened. That's the kind of thing we're going to do. If you think these are secondary, or they're glamorous winds...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u112	The TEF did this.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u113	Don't interrupt because the Minister has completed the time. There will be a small tolerance, but not a great one.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u114	Thank you, Mr President. Look, I obviously don't want to act on what the TEI did, but I'm telling you how the five-year guarantee is combined with the bill. I think you got it. I also think that doctors will benefit from a more favourable approach. I shall therefore conclude very quickly with two issues. In the law passed a few days ago on private education, it must be clear - and I am clarifying why it is a parliamentary amendment that has come - that the crisis of disciplinary infringements by private education teachers and the imposition of the prescribed disciplinary penalties are the sole responsibility of the disciplinary bodies provided for in the existing provisions and in no way the responsibility of the three-member committee of judges. Let's make that clear. There is a law and this kind of misconduct we manage on the basis of this law. So they have nothing to do with the referral procedure to the three-member committee of judges, etc. The last issue concerns the mosque. It is important to build the mosque, as is the function of the mosque. The construction of the mosque does not match its function. There must be a number of things that need to be done for its operation. I would ask that we show a political and social maturity for the operation - I insist - of the mosques, when we have so many people at Attica and in our country that they are Muslims. In addition to the motto, I would also ask that the next speakers speak in favour of resolving the issue of the Muslim cemetery. For while the Church of Greece unanimously granted twenty acres to Shhsto, the company that has the contractors, due to economic problems, has licked. All her machines are in these twenty acres that are to become the Moslem cemetery. There are trials, and we're waiting for decisions. We hope, therefore, that this very special right which each man has, that is to say, to be buried where his own people want, will soon be able to have it for Muslims in Athens as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u115	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty-three students and students and six educational attendants from the 4th Sparta Municipal School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] So listen, now, how the procedure is to be done. We shall start as follows: a parliamentary representative and three fellow Members will speak, to close with changes. Mr Javarras will now speak and then the MPs will speak. Mr Theocharopoulos has asked for a second floor. Mr Pappas will then speak, after speaking to three Members. I have also been informed that Mrs Vaki wants to close the series of Members of Parliament. So the other four are left in the order of the parties. We have also been informed so far of at least two Presidents of Parliamentary Groups to speak, Mr Mitsotakis from New Democracy and Mr Michaloliakos from Golden Dawn. It goes without saying that the Heads of any party, when they come to the Chamber, will intervene among the speakers once they have asked for the floor. Mr. Javarra, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u116	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I now think that we have a process of government dialogue, not both with Parliament and with the Council of State, on the issues which had been the subject of very tough and very strong debate, and which concerned the unconstitutionality of the provisions, which, in many bills, the House has brought to Parliament a debate and a vote, but which is not in line with the democratic sensitivity that the Government must have towards Parliament, but also in a way that does not comply with the requirements of the Scientific Council of Parliament, has led to this situation. Indeed, Minister, you are now obliged to bring in this provision of Article 1 arrangements which are in line with the decision of the Council of State, 711/2017. The worst thing, however, is that we have now come to legislate on the basis of the case-law of the Supreme Court. We should have caught up with all these issues. The worst thing is, unfortunately, that while we pretend that this case-law is respected, in the end it turns out to be a problem with these provisions again. I have already heard a dialogue that you have had on merit. The concept of fairness, of course, exists in the provision of Article 2 of the Constitution, but not in the way in which fundamental rights are applied and protected. Because this concept, which you are obliged to respect and safeguard in the regulations you bring, is the concept of dignity. Other merits, other worthyness in the sense of provisions 4 and 5 of the Constitution. Because on the basis of these provisions, dignity is linked to another authority called 'equality'. So not only does Decision 711/2017, but also a large number of other decisions say that, in the name of and implementation of constitutionally guaranteed principles of equality and dignity, the administration and the government, but also Parliament, are obliged to bring in provisions that, when they regulate issues of citizens' access to state positions, should do so unrestrictedly and solely in the name of the personal value and competence of the interested party in a process of non-discriminatory and objective. These are key words. They do not have to do with merit, as they appreciate it, and as the colleagues who will be invited in the school club to give an opinion on the contribution to educational work or to personality or on the general establishment of the person concerned to take up a post as a school manager. There is one issue here. And this is not a matter of words that we should use to show that we are interested in the relationship between intimacy between colleagues or the relationship of comradity or the relationship of popularity, as our rapporteur has said. These issues, whether you accept them or reject them, are of no value and no importance to the provisions you enter and to which you would like to have the footprint of the recent case-law of the Council of State. That is why, as the Council of State has said in many decisions, the Scientific Council of Parliament says so - the promotion of the administration of schools in primary and secondary education should be done by bodies that are appropriate and which are set up and operated on the basis of safeguards of the principles of dignity, objectivity and impartiality, in a process of procedure which makes these very procedures controlled by the annulling judge. So you, with the regulation that you are saying that the opinion is taken into account. You do not, however, specify how it is taken into account and whether it is mobilised. And in that way, you're blocking the appeal judge's control. The second and most important thing is that in this practical practice to be drawn up for the interview that will be given by the person concerned, you will not say whether or not the content of the interview will be included. The decisions of the Council of State say that in order to allow the cancellation procedure and the supervision of the Council of State, it should be included in these documents, the minutes, not only a summary but also a reference to questions and answers. It does not result from the arrangements you bring if that is the case. You are simply saying that the Association of Teachers will be taken into account, but you say that it must be justified. That doesn't say anything. The'reasoned' does not say anything, because here we are talking about assessing specific qualifications, specific criteria, which are not just quantifiable, but should at least be the subject of a specific crisis. That's not easy to regulate. You will see that, after another two months, you will bring us another regulation, which will be more appropriate and more precise to these principles established by the case law of the Court of Cassation. That is why we are once again putting the code against you with a sense of constructive criticism. Because we are interested in this place, finally, in having school units run by worthy. And the worthy, according to the Constitution, as I said before, have one single version, the reference to qualifications that make each individual's personal ability and thus its value. So it is not generally and vaguely worthy. It is the objective and impartial finding with an individual judgment of these specific criteria. So that's what you still have a problem with. But at last, Minister, you are a Minister of Education and you are an academic teacher. I said this to you and to another opportunity: from you we expect more and more creative work. You are recycled situations of the past, those which the institution crisis itself, the crisis of citizens' confidence in the institutions has created. We may now experience the hardest face of the crisis in the form of the economic crisis, but beneath this crisis or above this crisis - it depends if anyone sees it as a marxist or as a liberal - there are elements which lead to the dissolution and disintegration of society and the order that exists in this society and, above all, the administration with all the institutions, which are organised by the Constitution to serve the ever-increasing, ever-increasing, ever-increasing progress of this place. I see that you tend to set things up in relation to higher education, in order to expect someone to tell you 'bravo' because you are making it increasingly difficult, so it is more and more easy to get a student. They used to say - and we also took it from our teachers and from our fathers - that 'the good work lies'. Minister, and you have also taken a course of study, and of course you are one of those who know that without trouble nothing is gained. After all, what else should be an attempt to reconstruct the place from what emerges - I am not a natural, but I will say it - from the second thermodynamic position, which has taught us that not only nature, but also the institutions, in a way that is inexcusable and spontaneous in the ataxia? What a government has to do to respect the principles of the Constitution, which respects the principles and anguishs of the people for advancement, is within these systems to make out of the energy. And this action must be used to bring us back to some good start-up situations that have been abandoned because of the crisis. This is the obligation of someone to rule the place in conditions of economic crisis and in conditions of institutional disintegration. So we all have to make an effort together. Life is hard. It's not easy. When we try to pretend to be a simple path between game, joy and joy, what we do is put a very deep mine in the future for the next generations. That is why I will remember the poet's words, and so have we, as you have said, saved things, 'the future will have a lot of drought. Take with you enough water."
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u117	The President of the New Democracy accepted the Bureau's proposal politely and will mediate between Mr Javarra and his speech, Mrs Panayota Vranja. Then we will give the floor to Mr. Mitsotakis. Here, my colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u118	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the time-consuming problems of education in our country are well known. The people of the educational community are well aware of the difficulties and distortions, both at economic and institutional level, of distortions that have accumulated over the past decades due to the policies applied by all the previous governments of the old-fashioned state. Other so-called reforms, syndicate services of party leaders, 'part of' Community funds, which have been wasted and to a large extent unrelated to public education, have actually led to public education collapse. In response to this comes today a new draft law attempting to put order, in the light of the recent case-law of the Council of State, on individual issues of education policy. In particular, the import arrangements come to improve the provisions of Law No.4327/2015, which for the first time introduced the participation of the teachers' associations in the selection procedures of the directors of the relevant school units. It is extremely important to maintain in the process of selecting managers the expression of an opinion of joint teachers, as this results from the direct knowledge of the working conditions of each school unit. This choice is not only related to the teacher's educational work but also to his personality and to the overall establishment of the candidates. So we have a balanced combination of the aptitude moleculation system, through the assessment of objective elements of the service file of the candidates and democratic processes of participation of the educational community. I would, however, like to refer to Article 5 of the bill, which deals with the building of the Islamic mosque in Athens. I have heard the suggestions made by all the parties' rapporteurs. I have also heard the position of the rapporteur for the Golden Dawn, a monument of darkness and intolerance. The rapporteur for the Golden Dawn - and I will not notice the words I am going to use - has had the courage to say that we will paint our hands in blood all those who are voting today in the building of the Islamic mosque. Golden Dawn is being persecuted as a criminal organization. They have painted their hands with blood of innocent people, Greeks and Muslims. So I continue to say that with a sense of democracy we are today voting for the necessary arrangements for the organization and operation of the administration of the Islamic mosque in Athens at last. A modern, democratic Western state, which respects the human rights and religious freedoms of each one, must respond essentially to the constant demand of religious minorities to cover their worshipable needs in a human, dignified and civilized manner. For the same reason recently - the Minister mentioned it - several SYRIZA MPs have signed a question, which we are addressing to the Minister of Education and the Minister of Interior, regarding the creation of the Muslim cemetery in Athens. It is clear that in addition to maintaining good international relations, particularly with Arab states, we must respect equal and free access to all believers, regardless of nationality and dogma, in the field of their worship. Ladies and gentlemen, at some point in this country we will have to get away from the easy, superficial approach of things and look for the real causes of the events. The recent tragic blind terrorist strike in Manchester by a twenty-two-year-old immigrant child who decided to put an end to his life, taking with him as many children as he could, is not based on the principles of any religion but also on any logic. The conditions that these children are growing up, the experiences, the social exclusion, the intolerability of many cases are those that make them vulnerable to those who use religions, the 'opium of the people', as Marx said, in order to achieve their own selfish goals and interests. At a time when knowledge is at the highest level than ever for humanity and information is available everywhere and accessible by most people in the world, I really find it hard to understand all kinds of religious fanaticism, from the extreme terrorism of the jihadists to the yield of head of state's prices to relics. Hypocrisy is everywhere. Which one of us is not aware of the cases of ‘supporting’ members of our society, which is common secret that they do not pass a ‘Christian life’, every Sunday they are in the churches? I am passing through, the phenomenon is very common during the election periods, of course to unwritten votes, and not by a religious feeling. The role of a coordinate and serious state cannot but rely on the principles of democracy and humanism, trying to ease rather than exacerbate the hatred, passions and extremities of darkness that, unfortunately, exist today and contribute to the creation of societies with respect to man. Of course, taking into account the geostrategic position of Greece and the geopolitical conditions that have been established in the wider region, the draft law under consideration at the same time puts institutional obstacles to all kinds of religious fanaticism or intolerance, given that the legal person of the mosque in Athens will in essence be under the absolute control of the Greek state, a mature Greek state which respects the rights of its citizens on the basis of their colour, doctrine or religious beliefs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u119	Thank you for keeping time too. Mr President of the New Democracy, you are summoned to the Step. The President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, Mr Mitsotakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u120	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have chosen to speak today on the issues of education, because we are not going to get out of the long-standing crisis unless we regenerate our educational environment at all levels. In the short term, the economy is undoubtedly the key to the country's progress. In the long term, however, the role of education is crucial. In any case, it has already become critical through the trials that Greek society passes through. A few months ago, Minister, in September 2016, the New Democracy caused a debate in the House on education. I said at the time that education should be a field of national understanding and I stressed that experiments with the future of our children cannot be carried out. Since then, unfortunately, my worst fears have been confirmed every day, because you are doing what goes through your hand to transform a divisive, hard party logic into the sensitive area of education. What are you doing everywhere? All of this, while you don't have a structured plan on how you want our educational system to move forward. You know, I mean, what you want to check, but you don't know what you want to do. In two years, three Ministers of Education have changed, one abducting the choices of his predecessor. Each make his own committees, subcommittees, draws up his own findings, proceeds to his own announcements. Everyone, in other words, makes their own policy on the back of society and education. When the training provides material for fireworks, when it is exposed to personal ideas and is treated, in general, with a great deal of curiosity. I am very much in agreement with the political topicality of the last few months and years. The degradation of primary education is suddenly baptized as a full - day new - type school. Noms presented and passed with drum impacts are withdrawn in a few months, such as those for private education or postgraduate. Thousands of recruitments are announced on every occasion and then the government takes them back, because very simply there is no central planning. And, of course, the abolition of the pan-Hellenic examinations is announced by the Prime Minister in a special fashion and the next you, the Minister responsible, announce that you do not know how to implement this plan. That's not a government, it's a civilian unarmed army! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Today's inconvenience in the field of education is constant. He troubles students, troubles parents and, of course, troubles people in education. Today's bill, although short, small, is another link in a broken chain of idealism and curiosity. It's a bill that goes to cure an anti-constitutional arrangement. The government, which promised to be every word of the Constitution, has written books full of unconstitutional arrangements: four so far, one for every six months. The bill we are debating today comes under the urgency procedure to be voted on within two days. Why, Minister? Since December you knew that the decision of the Council of State considered the previous Balta - Kourakis law unconstitutional. And don't tell us that we had not warned you in this House about the flagrant unconstitutionality of the provision, which you suggested. For five months, couldn't you bring in a regulation that cures the problem of unconstitutionalism? Why do you have to do it at this speed and use the urgency procedure? Of course, this is not the first time that this is happening in the House today. It is now a regular practice of the government and the government's majority to call on the House to assemble improvisations, slugs, goats, when judged unconstitutional. But, in the issues of education, which are so important, you could make an exception, show greater seriousness. Instead, you are bringing a bill today on one of the most sensitive issues concerning primary and secondary education, the selection of managers. You go through it as quickly as possible, without giving time for substantial discussion. In addition to the procedure - and we have repeatedly criticised the way in which the government and the majority of the government legislate - there is the substance, which is that this bill leads us to a lot of steps back. At a time when we have to look for a way of highlighting competent and trained training officials, at a time when we have to invest in evaluation - another word that seems to be forbidden for you - and in the training of teachers, what exactly are you doing? You bring a bill that restores antiquity as an important criterion for the selection of directors. So back to the yearbook. Back to the obsolete concepts, which do not take into account the extent to which high qualifications, education, skills, yes, degrees should be taken into account. It seems to me and I wanted to confirm, as I listened to our rapporteur saying that there is no, Minister, provision for basic computer knowledge as an essential criterion for making an application to become a director. And don't tell me that's about it, because that should be an exclusion criterion for someone if he really wants to claim that position. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Is it possible at a time when we move to digital school, where there are tools, that the school manager doesn't have basic computer knowledge? I want to say a word about the interview. I heard you say the interview has a painful story. Ask me what criticism you have made at that time as an opposition when I recommended the structured interview for selecting directors, directors and divisions in public administration. Of course we need interviews, but interviews structured, organised, under Law 3848, who - I am sorry to say this for you, Minister - had a much more stringent framework for the way interviews should be conducted. We do not want interviews that are simply the reason for the administration finally selecting those who prefer and not those who really deserve them. All of this is proof of how deep and inexperienced your conservation is ultimately. As obsolete as your ideologies are. Instead of going to public school ahead, instead of building the 21st century education, we return to reason in the previous century. And it's not the first time. Rear custody battles in education give as much as - and wherever you can. You are trying to impose views completely obsolete, without social legitimacy and reacting to every step forward. I will remind you of what you have done with Law 4009 on higher education institutions. From the first day you sought to cancel him. As opposition you did it by trabourism and as a government with new laws, challenging the consensus from which the majorities that supported this law were built. I would like to remind you in this Chamber that this law has been passed - for the first time in Parliament - with a vast majority of two hundred and fifty-five Members. This law was seen as a constitutional law, Minister, unlike your own laws, and was based on the application of 70% of teachers. In fact, his acceptance was not just stressed by us. It was also stressed by you in a very interesting article, which I found and dating back to 2014, when you wrote in "AGEIA", entitled "A serious defeat of the Left at universities". So, what did you say then? I read and it is interesting to hear it: 'When, last autumn, the candidates for the Institutions' councils were voted on average by 70% of their colleagues - that is where we - the Left, the opposite - came from. We have retrospectively found various excuses for such a large participation, despite the fact that we had argued very convincingly in favour of abstention." And you continue: "Students, as a social category, seem to have become an extremely conservative body". They obviously became conservative because they participated in the election. "A body of feared" - because they express their opinion - "a body of ministers, which stubbornly refuses to accept his or her function and to be a voice of creative criticism of what is happening at the university". These were your views, Minister, three years ago just. Explain to me why you want to impose - and I am sure - 30% will on 70%, with the abolition of the councils and changes in the election of the electorate? Does that seem very democratic to you? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I cite the relevant article. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above article, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It's very interesting the self-criticism you've done for your defeat in the law at that time. But now you are government and you are nervous to extend the mandates of the management bodies of the HEIs, if you have any chance of fully implementing the degradation of higher education. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA and ANEL - I will come to ANEL next - the state does not belong to you, just as it does not belong to anyone. It belongs to the citizens and their interests must be served. Universities must operate autonomously, as requested by the Constitution and as imposed by international practice. And as much as you're trying to set up mechanisms everywhere, the institutions are not as weak as you think. They have been established with trouble and their wear is not easy. You listen to this! Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy has a vision and a plan for education. A vision that is defined by the values that we want to nurture all the administrative institutions of the country: Freedom, autonomy, merit, evaluation, transparency. And a project with which we will rebuild primary and secondary education, with the free and autonomous school, which will be a creative hive of knowledge and innovation. We will move on to interventions which will free every school from the suffocating embrace of an over-centralised central state and a Ministry of Education that insists on controlling everything in education. In this project teachers must have a dominant role and their importance, value and contribution will be highlighted. For us people of education are wealth for our schools and they must all have the freedom to do their job well. We want to encourage them to create, innovate, bring new ideas, not to move within a narrow mold, a predefined framework. Knowledge is produced in schools and not in the addresses of bureaucracy. This is why management staff, especially school managers, must have the appropriate quality so that they can inspire and be chosen according to best international practices, away from micropolitical and clienteles. Last September I had the opportunity to put forward specific proposals on how education managers should be selected. I was hoping that some of them could have taken advantage of them, but it is clear that we do not have the same priorities. I would like to repeat them soon, so that society can hear that there is a different path to education from the one that is being followed to finally move forward, a path that passes through democracy, transparency and morality. The criteria for the selection of directors - managers of education must obey these values, and certainly the absolute merits must be found in the executives who run education at the highest level, namely the thirteen regional training directors and the training managers. We can no longer discuss the implementation of such an important public policy with party officials. We need to take a step further. The emancipation of education and the whole of the public administration is a key priority, which is why the selection of regional directors should be made by the AACC with specific scientific and qualitative criteria and the role of managers cannot be a stagnation role. A school manager - or a school manager - cannot today be confined to the school of the 21st century only in his formal duties. It must be possible, it must be able to undertake a series of initiatives to improve the use of human and material resources, contribute to the evaluation procedures of educational staff and the self-assessment of the school unit. I cannot imagine how we will choose managers who do not believe in the concept of evaluation and self-assessment. It should extend training activities, be able to develop cooperation relations with the local community, to involve, in short, a range of activities that redefined the nature of its work as a whole. I know many directors who meet these criteria and have the opportunity to escape from the tight embrace of the framework that you have set them up. We need more of these people and their selection process should just tend to choose people with these characteristics. However, in order to do this, a clear description of the position of responsibility, the definition of tasks and of course an objective selection procedure, which will not give as much weight as you - in antiquity, but in wider knowledge and, of course, in administrative capabilities. We are not underestimating in any way the experience in education. Of course it's an important qualification. It can't be the basic qualification. We need fresh ideas and certified administrative capacity. That is why we are committed to establishing a new selection procedure, which will specify the logic that I described. And all of this - I repeat - will be done through the AACC for the top positions and with the supervision of the AACC for the rest of the process. This will be a first step so that we can finally give the schools the greatest flexibility and autonomy they need. It's the only way to make the autonomy of the school unit, the unit we want to make a cell of our educational regeneration. Ladies and gentlemen, at the point where we are today we must boldly look ahead, finally decide what kind of schools and what education we want for our children, decide what to teach them and what skills and skills our children need today to survive and distinguish themselves in a world that is changing at a very high speed. However, we must also decide which type of teacher we need in order to run this educational system, which we are envisioning. We will not move on with a government that fights back, which maintains the rule of law, which cannot be rid of ideological obsession but also a dangerous culture of state control. We shall only proceed through a major political change, which will bring the ideas of freedom, dignity, transparency and undivided public administration back to the forefront. We need free, autonomous and creative schools, which will truly provide supplies to every child to reach where he wants and can. This is our debt to the next generations. We know it and we'll do it. In conclusion, Mr Minister, I will come to the matter of texture soon, and I would like a little attention to that matter. Of course, allow me a political comment. Only as a farce can I take the stand of the Independent Greeks who are voting against the relevant article, while their State Secretary is signing the bill! [[Vibrant and prolonged applause from the New Democracy Ward]] With the contradictions of today's government, we can see everything! I'm filing the signatures. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above-mentioned page with the signatures, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Look, Minister: there are arguments in favour of and against the change in the way the mosque is run, and I could accept your arguments and agree with the relevant provision, but I have a serious reservation - which I want you to consider - on the question of funding. The provision, as it is formulated, allows legal persons from abroad to finance this legal person under private law and we should be absolutely sure that we ensure the source of funding and the origin of these resources. I don't need to expand any further, Minister. I think you understand exactly what I mean. I would therefore ask you to withdraw the relevant provision on financing, reintroduce it, discuss it again or, in any case, amend it in such a way that there is an absolute guarantee that state control, which is necessary in this structure, will also be extended to control the sources of funding for the mosque. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u121	We're going with two colleagues, Mr. Andriano, and...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u122	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u123	Minister, for only five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u124	Five minutes, I can't.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u125	If you want, you can take your dentistry but not at night ask again for a dentology. You have a tritology.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u126	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u127	You're entitled to nine minutes. I am sorry, Minister, that I am a little strict, because I have already been informed that two other political leaders will be asking for the floor. That's why you see me a little tight in time. Here, Mr Gavroglou, you have the floor for nine minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u128	Mr Mitsotakis, I have listened very carefully and I have mainly listened to what you have not said, because what you have said is absolutely trivial. What you did not say is serious, and here I would like to ask a set of questions, to see exactly what the Chief of New Democracy says. I will not go into the fact that your policy is a tough and divisive party line. I think this is a rhetoric which has no content and I want to ignore it. You are accusing us, however, that we do not have a plan for education and that there is something that you have discovered the great difference of opinion between the Prime Minister and the Minister of Education on the abolition of introductory examinations. Shall we say it for a millennium? Do you want, Mr Mitsotakis, you and the New Democracy, in the context of the famous national understanding you say, to agree that the problem is the last two grades of high school? You know we're a country without high school? We know or isolated inside your offices, don't you know what's going on with you? At the moment, the great challenge in our society is whether we can create a high school society, something that teachers do not have a responsibility for. However, the latter two classes of high school do not exist in teaching and training. This has huge repercussions on the new generation. It has huge psychological and personal consequences. It has huge pedagogical and educational implications. Will you finally say that's the problem? Because if we say that this is the problem, then we will see what kind of introductory examinations will result. Evidently these introductory tests will be abolished and this, in fact, the Prime Minister said, these introductory tests, which are the only element of which is that they are inconsistent but are not reliable at all. Not reliable, then. They are the ones that tyrannized the eighteen years, which cannot without guilt to go for a drink on Saturday night, they cannot fall in love when they are in the third grade, because the whole family suffers a huge crisis if the children get out of this course. These tests are destroying generations, and for these tests you have nothing to say. You have nothing to say, because you don't want to upgrade high school. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] I did not interrupt Mr. Mitsotakis. You applauded him. That's what he says.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u129	But have you proposed anything, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u130	As to the deterioration, if you think that the full-day school, which was generalized last year and which we are generalizing for the few days this year, is a downgrading of the school, this way you go out and not again through the rhetoric, unless you know what it means for the entire day's school, which we are going to establish from September when we come to the lasts of our country in the oligopoly. You may not even know all this. We waited for this week, wait, wait. Voice voice in the wilderness. Do you know how many thousands of schools do the theme week? Do you know how creative the theme week was? You know you got involved in a misery that's just for the relationship between the two sexes? Do you know what miracles have been done in schools by teachers around this subject? Identify it at least. Don't be quiet. That is why I said that Mr Mitsotakis' silences were much more declaratory. Also with regard to PSAs and apprenticeships, at least recognize it. They are children of popular classes who have this opportunity to learn in the fourth year after the PSA. We will move on to the establishment of two-year structures within the TEIs and the universities, to which the graduates of the PESALs will have access and they will receive professional certification with European qualifications. That is our policy, but let us look at this policy as such and criticize it as such. Let us not start again with all this that we need to get to grips with it at the next moment. Now, with regard to the interview here, our people are - I think - very expressive. "In the house of the hanged man they don't talk about rope." The twenty thousand fired with these tricks were fired. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Isn't that right? It was nothing to do with people, if you went to experiment with them in such ways as to manipulate a society. You see me and I talk too strict and it's not my style, but in these things we have to be very strict. There was also a debate, which was probably not understood that Law 4009/2011 was voted by a huge majority in this Parliament. And that's what happened. The reason for this majority, the reason for the agreement between the parties to vote, was because there was an ideological agreement. It was that n.4009 was projected as the law that puts the tombstone in Transmolitanism. Listen to Mr. Voridis' speech from this Step. It's in the Minutes of the House. Listen to what Mr Vorides said and what many Members have said, who are also Members today, that this law finally stops the left-wing hegemony at universities. Is that possible? It is disgraceful that a law should be passed on with that reasoning. It is a shame to vote on and voted on by two hundred fifty Members. Good for them! But be careful. This law also had an element of bourgeois indulgence and don't laugh. What was bourgeois inconvenience? The board of the institution decided who would be the candidates. I don't think in tribes, than anthropologists say, there are no such procedures. So this law passed by the two - fifty - one - is a curse for democracy, because it dissolved the universities, because it bureaucraticised the universities, because it ideology the universities. As a result, the foundation councils were devastated, they left, they died. It's the ones that came out with 70%. I am pleased that Mr Mitsotakis not only read the article I wrote in 2014 but also had tendencies to interpret it. I'm honored, and I mean it. But look. That's where I said that we, the Left, should see self-critical things. Why did 70% go and vote? It's a question about the Left and the Universities. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I don't want to give answers. So if we publicly say that we want to investigate certain problems, you think that's what Mr Mitsotakis said, I raise my hands up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u131	You're closing, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u132	I shall close with a slight tolerance, Mr President. I'm done. You should know that. We will now say that the beatings will be elected by a ballot and the counter-tracking by the other ballot. You all say: 'But what if they fight later, why are they not of the same group?' But aren't you talking about a national understanding? That's how Mr. Mitsotakis started. You know what he's saying? Socio-socialism says 'find them'. And while you say that, while you say that there must be consultation, you yourself want to blow up a system that will break the complex.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u133	"Did you find them"?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u134	Yes, 'find them'. It's a difficult concept, Mrs. Vulture.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u135	I won't let the conversation relax any further. This will not be done at the expense of the Members of Parliament from all the wings. You're closing, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u136	Before he was indignant.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u137	Mr. Mitsotakis isn't here to ask if he knows how to operate a computer. I'm sure he knows and knows very well. I'm sure he hasn't gotten a certificate anywhere. So what do you mean? That if Mr. Mitsotakis had the other criteria, he couldn't be a candidate?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u138	Apostomistic, terrible argument!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u139	So let go of the joke. I'm done. If you think we are strengthening antiquity, you are wrong. We're strengthening our experience. Another is antiquity, another is experience. The Greek language, thank God, has many ways of expressing itself. I'm ending up with two issues. One is the question of national understanding. I say, in spite of all our differences, that we should try to reach agreement on fundamental issues. Do you know that we have successfully completed the book on Religiouss? This is an initiative initiated by Mr Philly, and continued with the committees, and we move on to the next step. Do you know that we have started a debate on history, in which the only one who disagreed, was a representative of the Pan-Hellenic Association of Philologists, when we had the conversation with all the actors? These must be applauded, because these are essential initiatives for modernisation. It is not an essential initiative to hide behind incredible publications and not to try to defend democratic steps.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u140	Minister, please finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u141	(Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs): With regard to the last thing Mr Mitsotakis said about the mosque, I think he expressed a sincere concern. By the end of the meeting I would like to look into it and see how we will do it, because he said so in such a way, without leaving any implied party or anything else...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u142	They don't need much talk about it. Pick up the parties' representatives and find the solution by seven o'clock this afternoon.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u143	(Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs): Mr President, I have this fate every time to chair you when I speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u144	It's because of personal love, you know it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u145	Mr President, I would like to speak, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u146	Mr. Javarra, you have the floor for a minute counted. Don't make me a moral blackmail. You have the floor for just a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u147	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we would indeed expect the Minister to respond to the issues raised by the Chief of Staff. Minister, it would be more honorable for you to answer these very important issues raised by the Chief. Do you agree with the election of regional directors from the ADP? This means 'dismantling education'. This means ‘a dismantling of the state’. Are you taking a stand on this? Unfortunately, we didn't hear you posted. Do you object to the criteria for IASA for the other strains? This is the institution of the Constitution that ensures - and you know it very well - impartial and objective procedures. Why didn't you put yourself on it? But unfortunately, I see that even though you have the potential to give us answers, you are following what the Prime Minister has done and unfortunately you have. One day he announced that the examinations were abolished and then when you asked how the import system would be replaced, you said 'I don't know'. Such, however, experimentation and populism especially in education do very serious harm to the nation and society. That is why we, and now we are telling you, are putting specific criteria on other issues and not on the yearbook. There are other skills that you need to show...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u148	But there is no yearbook! What are you talking about? Please. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u149	Okay, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good. It wasn't negative.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u150	You know what I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u151	What am I supposed to understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u152	Do you object to the SAAP?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u153	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u154	There's legislation...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u155	But there's legislation!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u156	What legislation is there? Legislation...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u157	Mr. Javarra, please. Mrs. Vaki, can I come down from the Chair to speak to my colleague? If you want me to be here in the Chair...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u158	Mr President, I challenge you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u159	You're the one who's causing.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u160	Did I speak to anyone?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u161	No one's provoking. Dialogue out on the coffee! Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, thirty-two students and students and two educational attendants from the 1st Marcopoulou High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Now listen. Mr. Theocharopoulos will take the floor. Then the two colleagues, Mr. Andrianos and Mr. Maniotis. Then the Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, Mr. Pappas, will speak. Then Mr. Gregos and Mr. Saridis will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u162	But the three Members have not spoken, Mr President. When are we gonna talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u163	You're here, Mr. Kelles.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u164	Yeah, but they didn't talk to three MPs!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u165	I say to you that, as the Heads of State or Government intervened, the Parliamentary Representatives are coming a little further.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u166	Is it in turn?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u167	They actually spoke to Mrs. Vanja. Mr. Andrianos and Mr. Maniotis will follow.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u168	Only Mrs. Vanja spoke.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u169	I'm answering. Because the series has changed, because of Mr Mitsotakis and Mr Minister, the parliamentary representative is intervening, and again underneath, as Mr Javaras intervened before speaking to Members. Mr. Kelles, let me make the remarks. I know better. Mr. Theocharopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u170	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, we are here today to discuss a bill which, as you have called it, contains measures to speed up the government's work on education. What acceleration? What governmental project? Where is this government project supported when there is no clear and comprehensive national strategy for education and research? Let me remind you that we already have three ministers of the SYRIZA Government - ANEL these two years. And each Minister has his own agenda and the agenda of the entire Ministry of Education changes in the same government. In this context, of course, too, are the recent statements made by the Prime Minister for new universities, a combination of technological institutions and the establishment of new universities and, of course, the abolition of pan-Hellenic examinations. No one disputes that in secondary education, and in high school in particular, there are malfunctions and serious problems to be solved. At the same time, however, we cannot ignore the impossibility and objectivity achieved by the institution of the pan-Hellenic examinations. The solution, therefore, lies in a structured policy, which, with the aim of quality public school, will set learning as its basic aim, but without this making the high school a dry cognitive school which will create stress on students and push them into parrot. Without the evaluation of students to turn high school into an examination centre. A policy is needed, which will be a product of substantial and not a pretext for dialogue. But move in this context too without a plan. But the Prime Minister from the Ministry of Education states, but then the Minister says in the next few days about this issue. In trying to solve the problems that have been created, you risk dismantling everything, even the imprecise and objective that exists in certain institutions. You make promises and statements without even studying beforehand. That's what you know, that's what you're doing. You're just plundering on this particular subject, too. The provisions of today's bill that we are discussing are, unfortunately, completely revealing your inefficiency and handshake. The first part concerning the selection procedure for school managers follows the decision, essentially, of the Council of State, according to which the procedure provided for by your law, the law of SYRIZA, concerning the mobilisation of candidates by the vote of the teachers' association, was considered unconstitutional. Another unconstitutional law. You have said that you will be every word of the Constitution, but you think we have an unwritten constitution and there are no commitments. But now you're coming with a new law, with new fragmentary arrangements to ball your own mistakes. However, ladies and gentlemen of the government, and this so-called attempt is considered insufficient, because this legislation does not contain an overall framework for selecting all training staff from above. You do not have an overall proposal. Even so, what are you doing? You set up a system of selection of directors, which provides for the selection of at least 10 years of at least 10 years of training at the relevant level and for at least 10 years of teaching tasks, which excludes certain categories, such as school advisors, from this process. At the same time, the new definition of selection criteria and moleculosis reduces the importance of the qualifications required. I'm asking you. When you increase your pre-service to such an extent - and we are talking about this extent - and you reduce the importance of qualifications, how will you enable teachers with more qualifications, select managers' posts, take up a more modern look, along with experience, positions in the administration of school units? No way. That's the reality. You are thus creating a new yearbook. Minister, you have arranged and, after an outcry, you have then committed yourself to taking her back. You have today and in fact said "we will keep it, we will vote and see if we need to change it or vote on it". But are these serious things? I am talking about the arrangement with regard to teachers, who will not have the right to apply for a manager's office if two consecutive full-teaching terms have been completed in the same place. What are you going to do with this arrangement? We didn't understand. You put it for discussion, and that's why we're voting for it? But this can be said in the Greek Parliament! If you think it is wrong, you take it back and bring it back to the public debate, if you think it is right, we vote on it! What is this tactic you're following? Of course, there is a question of equal access to positions of responsibility here. You didn't explain your reasoning. Because the reasoning I have heard that those who perform their duties should not have many terms of office, first apply it - first - to the office of the ministers. Let this process begin. Not from the headmasters' place. So you understand that when we have some arguments, we have to have them completely. I heard you, of course, Minister - you are not here now, unfortunately - saying that the previous law, which had been passed by more than two Members, is a curse for democracy. 'Catch for democracy.' You said exactly those words. You requested the time when you called it a national understanding. You asked for it at the time when you described the "curse for democracy" the law that was passed intergrouply by most of Parliament's parties at the time. If this leads to national understanding, we really raise our hands up. Your intentions cannot make us more sceptical when we see what is envisaged for the post, for example, of the Chairman of the Selection Board of Directors. What exactly are you trying to do with this? Is there any way that you can establish the training directors on the basis of which you are afraid of a new decision by the Council of State? Legislate in this way, instead of breathing in the field of education. They are also placed in the first part of the bill and the conditions are also laid down for the selection of managers for special kindergartens. I would like to remind you, however, that to date there are no four-and-a-half special kindergartens in which he is head of director. But, as you say in the explanatory statement, you propose this regulation because of the current legislative gap. In other words, you are setting the conditions for something that does not exist, so that there is no legislative gap. What can you say? There are no comments here, in fact, on the priorities that the government puts on what we should put forward at the moment. However, ladies and gentlemen, I am obviously in Article 5 relating to the Islamic Mosque of Athens. It is a self-evident arrangement for every state that respects religious freedoms. The provision on the Islamic mosque would not have been voted on in the committee, it would not even have come to the debate and vote in the House today, without our vote, the Democratic Reconciliation, because the non-voting by the ANELs and the small-party purposes of other parties in the opposition would not have had the required majority in the committees. But you can't rule la card. You do not really have a majority on all these human rights issues. I remind you that this is not the first time this has happened. The same has happened with the cohabitation agreement, because you have a consistent co-pilot of your nationalist partner, Mr Kammenos and the ANELs. This is therefore a self-evident provision for every country that respects human rights. Unfortunately, however, in your Government there are anachronistic perceptions. It's not only your co-pilot, the ANELs, but also within SYRIZA to your government, there are and I'll tell you later. Some people do not understand that Greece is a modern European country. And a party on the Radical Left, as it wants to call itself, collide with them. It turns out once again that this government has no programmable web, no solid programming basis. The ANELs are a nationalist right-wing party and prove it at every opportunity. It is not a centre-right party, as Mr Tsipras said in an interview at a television station. So you are convening with this party, which does not vote for the coexistence agreement, it does not vote for the State's fulfilment of its basic rights to religious freedom. Rejoice them! At the same time, the SYRIZA rapporteur said that, in fact, it divides you abyss only from the Golden Dawn - we have all clarified the position for the anti-democratic actions of this organisation - and not, for example, with these extreme right positions of your co-pilot. While the rapporteur of the ANELs in the committees stated that "we, SYRIZA and ANEL, are the ones who have taught political culture and are not a problem, we are an example to be imitated". Shame on you! Let me remind you of what he signs in the explanatory statement and Minister Zouraris from the party, who of course does not vote: "Let them also be sure of a suitable, safe, freely accessible and inclusive place of prayer and worship of this particular religion. This lack has the effect of weakening the international image and credibility of our country, not only at bilateral transnational level, but also at international organisations, a legislative choice for the mosque that demonstrates the respect of the Greek state in religious freedom, will ensure better and indeed by direct State assistance, equal and free access of all believers, regardless of nationality and dogma." That is what the explanatory statement says, and that is what you do not even agree within the government. It is also signed by the party minister, who refuses to vote on these issues. But ensuring that all citizens are prayed for every religion is an obligation for a modern European democratic state. We believe in our principles, as a progressive party, we are voting for this provision on the issues of the operation of Islamic mosques in Athens. Its establishment was an obvious cross-party decision for a modern democratic European state. This decision is consistently served. The other so-called European reformist forces will not hide behind the vote on the Democratic Integration in both the committees and here. It would not be possible to discuss this in plenary today if we did not go over micro-party purposes, above any political costs. Human rights above that logic. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] It seems, therefore, that for all these principles and values, only apply if their micro-party interests are not affected. SYRIZA confirms daily that he is hostage to the government's extreme right-wing component, ANEL. With this attitude you are exposed to progressive citizens. We do not negotiate these human rights and have shown it in practice. For you, really, what is your worthwhile burden when you have this policy within your government? But I wonder what burden, when a member of your government of SYRIZA is Mr. Paulakis, who said the other day: "Vastsoibbles, remain European, we will win." Look at terminology of the Minister of Government 'the first time left'. That's not a terminology. So I dedicate myself to those who believed in another Left, and we do not have it, because we will offer the alternative, progressive solution, what Tasos Livadidis said. "My Left" said "he never flew yogurt. My Left was always distinguished for her kindness, she always stood out for the perseverance of her ideas, she was delimited for her unselfish offering, she was renowned for her tolerance to the different, she never carved ears of lazy, lazy and enslaved. Finally, my Left is a lonely case." Ladies and gentlemen, this policy cannot continue for the Greek people and, of course, in the area of education that we are discussing today, we need a real overrun, a progressive plan to get out of the crisis. For the country's recovery, we must finally set up and implement a national strategy for education. We have the inspiring stuff. Teachers, teachers and qualified new generations.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u171	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u172	I shall conclude, Mr President. It remains to be worked out the way and to legislate consistently and effectively, respecting the principles of the rule of law and good administration, and then to ensure the implementation of this strategy and its feedback. We owe it to the new generation and we need to do it in the coming years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u173	Mr. Ioannis Andrianos, Member of the New Democracy of Argolidos. Then Mr. Maniot will speak. The two compatriots coincided. How you made it that way. Here, Mr. Andriane, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u174	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, one cannot argue that education is a serious matter and cannot be dealt with in this way, such as the one you legislate, in other words by hand, without a specific strategic framework. Today we are discussing a bill, which concerns issues of the Ministry of Education after the cancellation as an anti-constitutional version of the previous Balta - Kourakis law on the procedure for selecting school managers. We, New Democracy, had noted in time the unconstitutionality of that law and warned of the major problems it would cause. The government didn't listen to us then. And the worst thing is, apparently, he didn't learn much from this story. This is because today's bill is also characterised by unrecognised sketchyness, as it contains errors and omissions, especially with regard to the molecules process. Our rapporteur has referred in detail to these mistakes and omissions, such as the effective cancellation of evaluation, the reduction of the gravity of scientific qualifications, the excessive mobilisation of antiquity without evaluation, the lack of mobilisation of a large number of teachers who offer teaching work in structures with a high degree of responsibility, the structures that we have mentioned - we have said what these structures and the committees are - for the time economy I will not mention here - and, indeed, when these teachers were sure that the service in these structures will be counted. You said you were going to make some corrections like the U.S. We expect to see these improvements. You also heard our specific objections to the discouragement of the improvement of teachers by insufficient moleculosis for further degrees or writing work on educational work. You have heard our objection to the non-definition of computers in the year 2017 and while the training units management programs require the use of a computer. Ladies and gentlemen, the problems I have mentioned, for example, are due to three main reasons: firstly, the Government's desire to satisfy the party audience, secondly, to avoid dubiousness and, thirdly, to the philosophy of the government's majority on education. The problems caused by uncertainties could, of course, have been effectively corrected if a different procedure had been followed in the preparation of the bill. It is unjustified that issues concerning the weighting of many parameters, such as moleculosis, should be effectively announced as decisions taken in the context of an urgent procedure. Even so, many of these problems could have been corrected during the drafting of the bill. But there too, bodies were excluded or no representatives were invited, which could contribute constructively with their proposals to correct the errors and omissions of the bill. I mention features that no single body for technical and vocational education was invited, and four of the fourteen bodies called, were officials of the Ministry of Education. More important, however, are the problems created by the particular education philosophy of the government. I would particularly like to dwell on the absolute refusal by the government to evaluate. Of course we all recognise that, in order to be effective in every area of public life, the criteria and procedures must have been extensively discussed and operated not only as a means of rewarding the best but also as an incentive to lasting improvement. I would like here to reiterate my conviction that the majority Members will have a very difficult task, go to their regions and convince students and parents of their choice to abolish evaluation and actually impose a levelling-up. Because levelling down is ensuring a management position in an educational unit just through antiquity, without any evaluation, without any need for computer knowledge, without any motivation for further training and specialisation. This is the big, fundamental difference between us and the current government. We do not believe that solutions to the existent inequalities are the equation downwards, but the provision to all children of any socio-economic environment of the quality opportunities they deserve to do their dreams in the modern competitive environment that we live in and there is no other way to ensure quality in education, from fair and continuous evaluation. The evaluation that shows us what we are doing right to strengthen it, and what we are doing wrong, so that we can correct it. Unfortunately, the current government sees excellence as an alibi for the perpetuation of social inequalities and privileges. We, on the contrary, believe that encouraging excellence, particularly in education, is the most effective means of social mobility, the most effective tool available to a society to correct inequalities and achieve collective provocation. Of course, when we talk about excellence, we are talking about excellence at every level of education, technical and vocational education, lifelong learning and training in every aspect of public life. Evaluation, excellence, encouragement of the creative initiative is our vision and it is unfortunate that you do not share, ladies and gentlemen, in this regard. This is because, as I have pointed out in the debate in the committee, the levelling down, the minor effort, the bad conception of equilibrium, is particularly affected, not only by the children of the people's families, by the children whose families are unable to pay, to fill the gaps in the educational system. Instead, rich families will find ways to ensure quality education opportunities for their children. That is why it is crucial that we try to continuously improve the level of education provided, so that we can give our children the opportunity to use their gradients in the best way. That is why we in the New Democracy support all efforts to upgrade education and we are dynamically opposed to any logic of levelling, undermining excellence at every level and undermining the right of children to quality education in the altar of serving other interests. Unfortunately, rather than some positive ones, such as some of the provisions of Article 4 on technical, vocational education which we shall vote on, as we are not dogmatic, this bill is most of its step backwards. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u175	Mr Maniotis has the floor from the Democratic Assent. Come on, Mr. Maniot.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u176	Ladies and gentlemen, I really listened with surprise to the Minister of Education of Greece a few minutes ago, calling as a "curse for democracy" the n.4009/2011, who released the Greek university from the chains of stateism, who gave a breath to the real movement of ideas, which enabled the Greek universities to become the extroverted institutions that contribute to the social development and development of the economy. Instead of a curse of democracy, it is a disgrace for a man who expresses the academic world, to ignore that this law was passed by over two hundred fifty Members of the national Parliament and I, personally, have to tell you I am deeply proud myself because I participated in the government, which acted on Law 4009. If for something we have to be ashamed of as a state as a whole and much more of the current government, which is entirely and exclusively responsible, is that in the Greek universities, at least in some of them instead of free movement of ideas, we now have free movement of violence, partyism, smuggling, we have free movement of law. Just because there are political responsibilities from some who canceled certain provisions of Law 4009/2011. I have to tell you one more thing before I get to the rest of the education issues. We, as Democratic Independence, are very proud of each other, because with our vote we have the opportunity here today in this Chamber to discuss the issues of the functioning of the Muslim mosque. If there were no vote on the Democratic Incorporation, the Greek State, the Hellenic Republic, would have had a slap in the right right-wing nationalism, because a self-evident value, a human value, a human right for every citizen to have his place of worship, could no longer be discussed in this Parliament and we are now entitled to look into the eyes of all those who allegedly represent the left, when the Tsipras Kammenos government has crossed this right-wing nationalism, which, in the end, only suits us to keep the chairs of power. I will not comment at all on the urgent matter of the education bill. It's the badest joke ever. The coldest joke you could say today in Greek political life is to remind Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras in the 2015 programming statements that Mr Tsipras and his Government will be every word of the Constitution. This law is the fifth or sixth law declared unconstitutional. While we knew the decision of the Council of State, we are now coming and say that the ministry was supposedly unable to get ready. But you knew everything. Surely you knew everything. Assuming you didn't know. What would change, if it were two, three, or four days behind the vote on this bill, or if it would come a week earlier to be voted on? So there is no more serious talk about the government's supposed documentation. I shall, however, come to the main issue of the bill, the question of education and, above all, primary and secondary education. This is where we have to agree, my Minister, on some very basic things. Do we consider education to be the most intangible value of Greek society? Yes or no? I imagine in words we'll all agree. Let us now see whether the deeds and whether this value that is typically shared by the government can be realised. What should be a modern education, a modern European country? First of all, it is smart, that is to say, to integrate new information and communication technologies into all aspects of education's operation. Secondly, what should education be? Be permanent. Because lifelong learning, continuing training, is a key key to living in a society where the knowledge it acquires today, in a five-year period, has become an old one. Thirdly, what should an education have? It must have full respect for one of the three major dangers of the planet. Environmental education, environmental degradation. People'sism, terrorism and environmental degradation are the three major wounds of the planet. Fourthly, what should education have? Respect dignity and excellence. Uh, my Minister, with your bill and the four values that I mentioned above, you are trespassing and I am explaining: First start. Education should be smart and adapted to new technologies. You do not take into account or degrade all these training on technology, telecommunications and communications issues. So on your own, you send the message 'do not continue teachers in this direction'. Secondly, what should education be? Continuing training. Actually, you tell the teachers that to become managers, they don't have to get a second degree, they don't have to be trained, they don't have to go to the National Public Administration Centre to get better. Thirdly, what do you say about people serving in environmental education centres? The great work they do for the new generation, to breast-feed, to form people who respect the environment, the state, the SYRIZA Government does not evaluate it. That's why he doesn't count on their qualifications. And fourthly, what are you doing? You are trespassing on the fourth value of excellence and dignity. Because in the structured interview an objective criterion that can ensure the evaluation of school managers beyond partyism and personal choices, you have not incorporated it. Ladies and gentlemen, the issues of education never end, but what matters is that every time an effort is made, it is an attempt by a government and a state which has dealt with seven years of memoranda and has realised that tomorrow a country is today's new generation. So when the new generation does not train it in the way that should be done, when those who run the school units, primary and secondary education, do not feel that it makes sense for them to become ever better - because that brings them as a message today's bill - e.g., then this country does not go forward. We, as Democratic Reconciliation, will overturn all this at the first opportunity, because the Greek people are entitled to another government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u177	Mr Christos Pappas has the floor. Here you go, Mr. Pappa.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u178	For once, the left-wing government of the privileged and euphemistically extreme right of the opposing opposing opportunities has, in its procedure, tabled an extremely important and serious draft law, without, of course, having been placed in public consultation, thereby neglecting the appropriate parliamentary procedures and effectively devaluing any constitutional concept and legality and the institutional functions of the Greek Parliament itself. Because I am talking about decommissioning parliamentary procedures, about making the rest of the others aware, Minister, that for thirteen consecutive weeks you are pretending to be a workload and not answering a timely question from 20-2-2017. This question relates to the'stop of the nation'. It would be much more honorable - and I would add - instead of calling your secretaries and transferring your prerogatives to us immediately to say that you do not want or are unable to answer. Questions which are both timely and have to do with the risen mosque are: What steps have been taken towards fulfilling the "maturity of the nation"? Has an area been allocated to the building of the battalion in the Attica region? Secondly, given that the construction of Islamic mosques to an extent of the Navy in the area of Botanic, with the expenditure on the Greek Orthodox people, is already planned, will the Greek state proceed to the rapid completion of the work that is also an obligation and a promise of the fighters of 1821? You're not answering. What do you want to answer? I am presenting to the Minutes for this three-month period an unanswered time-consuming question. [[At this point the Member, Mr Christos Papapas, presents for the Minutes the timely question mentioned above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In this Chamber there is the alerting difference of two different powers. The power of the democratic arch you say, which undermines the Constitution against and constantly undermines the parliamentary order and the political rules, on the other hand, the power of the Greek nationalists of the People's League, who not only denounces your good cooperation in the monumental enslavement of our country and the misery of our people, but also proposes with its clear political positions the difficult path of freedom and new Greece. The debate on the urgent education bill is also on a Memorandum. You fear public consultation, criticism and anything that escapes your micro-party and left-wing ideas. You are justifying your political action but also the urgency of the bill - and not only in many cases in this Chamber - under the cloak of your so-called humanitarian ideas on the left. You are supposed to be opponents of an opponent accepting an artificial fascism and conservativeism, and the truth is that you are being displeased and legislated against constitutional legitimacy and much more against the people's and national interests. The position of Golden Dawn for education is a paradigm from the party model in which the Left of the pluto-states looks, which tends to transform the field of education into a field of consolidation of new standards and codes of conduct, aligned with the modern anti-traditional requirements of globalization. Even within this draft law which regulates most of the administrative issues, they are underminingly trying to promote their own micro-political interests, which, of course, are in direct connection with your zero, anti-national and international payments. It is a culmination - and I shall refer here again - of provisions to facilitate the upbuilding of the Islamic mosque. Education in the national governance of the Golden Dawn is a public asset, to which all Greek citizens must have access. Under no circumstances should it be a field of party and trade union actions. On the contrary, it is imperative to be cleared of ill obsolete perceptions and to be disembodied by ideological left-wing custody and to dismiss those teachers who practice militant anti-national propaganda. Reconstruct the national nature of education with the aim of strengthening the national conscience of Greek students, forging their national culture and their proper moralization, away from the corrupting standards of the Arab Left under the educational catalytic influence of the ideals of Greek culture. Ethnic politics in education - an area where, from 1974 to today, the Left has dominated ideologically and politically, thanks, of course, to the betrayal policy of the deathright of the Nea Democrat Republic, the bourgeois right, the right of the xenocracy - has given you the right to give education a completely different meaning, a completely different subject from what is required by the Constitution, which is the national education of the Greeks. For us education in the national state we want to confuse Greek consciences, we want education to make free Greek citizens and not commemorative citizens. In conclusion, we are experiencing the results of the post-political right-wing policy, which remained a slave and remains a slave to the left-wing ideological guardianship and delivers certificates of excellence to the left-wing glutes, as we have recently admired the commemoration of the actions of the so-called Democratic Army by the selector of the New Democracy, the District Minister Bakoyannis, and the Minister of SYRIZA, Skourletis. In this respect, the decision of the Council of State on the law of 2015 of a year ago is now assessed manually and superficially, without the time necessary, in-depth discussions and all aspects have been taken into account, at least for the selection process of school managers. There has also been no slight attempt to restore normality for two years to select training managers in the order that has been accepted for years. Education directors, school advisors, school directors, head of education, school heads and Heads of Schools and Heads of Sectors CEC, CEC responsible, CEC, CEC, CEC, etc., with the result that school advisors spend the sixth year of their term of office after three extensions and that school managers are in crisis for the second time in two years, with the result that this entails the operation of the school units. Even at the opposite end of the principles of equality, dignity and equivalency, any form of restriction on the statements of preference for school units by current managers is being introduced. With regard to the evaluation of the criteria for the training of the candidate directors, it is appropriate to take account of all their undergraduate, postgraduate studies and their training, certified by public bodies with proportional moleculosis. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Anastassios Kourakis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] Our rapporteur, Mr Iliopoulou, has also said about the flagrant violation of any concept of law and ethics with moleculosis, but also with the interview. As time is short, I would like to go to the essence of this bill contained in Article 5, which lays down the facilities and procedures for building the Islamic mosque and because there was a debate during our rapporteur's speech and because the Bureau took the decision to keep a minute of silence in memory of the victims of terrorist activity in Manchester and the Bureau made a point in timely and out-of-court comment by falsifying and twisting, I would say, Mr Eliopoulos's words, I would like to add to the debate that we do not agree that all Muslims are terrorists. But should we accept, ladies and gentlemen of the Bureau, that all terrorists are Muslims? Also for our objections and the hypocritical observance of a minute's silence I would like to add and awaken the enthusiasts who see us and say: 'But Manchester is far away'. No, dear, Manchester is not far away. Manchester is in Saint Panteleimon. Manchester is in Agaleo, Hive, American Square and elsewhere. And the mosque because of these jams you will make and allow to take place in Greece in a prominent and overwhelming majority of homogeneous religious countries, we will keep in very short a minute silence about the metro of Athens, about the explosion in Agios Panteleimon, about the explosion in Kipseli and so on. He heard from this step a little while ago by a spokesman from the SYRIZA Member, who said without being interrupted by the Bureau, about the poor twenty-two-two-year-old who lost his life and killed himself, that is, listen to - hear about the gypsy who did not lose his life, but took with him twenty-two other lives of young children and left dozens injured in Manchester. So, the pain of the left lady of SYRIZA and the one minute silence, was it for the jiggler and not for Manchester's victims? Because he didn't tell us anything about the victims, and he told us about the gypsy. I shall conclude, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance. I shall close and say that I am not surprised by the symbolic attitude of the New Democracy as regards Article 5. He swore cowardly, whispering some reservations about the appointment of the two Muslim representatives. Which is hypocrisy! We are talking about the neo-democrats, those who voted to raise the mosque, those who basically started the issue of building the mosque for reasons of cheap opposition, betting on the short memory of the voters and making it here a cheap opposition. At the consortium, ladies and gentlemen of the Greek people, questions are expressed and truths are expressed really heavy, which you will have heard and wondered about. Are they traitors? Are they agents, incompetent, worshiped? What's with all this? In the political development of things and the destruction of an entire people from the fourth memorial because of the only hope, without any guarantee, without any decisions on the debt, at a time when it reminds me of national destruction in 1974, I am bitterly coming to tell the Greek people that, unfortunately, this is all together.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u179	We're going with Mr. Antonis Gregos, MP of the Golden Dawn, for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u180	Thank you, Mr President. It is another bill, as we have repeatedly denounced, in accordance with the urgency procedure, without public consultation as we have said in the Committee on Morphic Affairs, mainly because it is included in this appalling and nationally dangerous article 5 on the functioning of the Islamic mosque. Of course, if you dare to consult on this, you would also receive the citizens' comments, comments critically, not to say remarks of vulgarity. Golden Dawn is the only party that has been clearly held during both the building and the operation in the heart of Athens and anywhere. With the well-known battalion of SYRIZA and ANEL, this article will also pass, with the support of the parties of the well-known "anti-national arch". You'll hide behind PASOK again. All this in the shadow of constant terrorist attacks in almost all European countries at the time the ever-invasive invasion of illegal immigrants continues, of which many jihadists and Turkish agents are heard. Apparently they will now have a place to carry out their religious duties, as their bloodsucking customs and customs command. Of course this is not the only provision of the parties of the 'anti-national arch'. Unlike the Greeks, every poacher enjoys free health, immunity in many cases, education in all educational institutions of the country, unlike the Greeks' will again. In fact, while the applicants were supposed to take lessons in some schools and in offspring hours, the project changed, of course, and they will normally be in all classes and in all schools, downgrading our national education and progress of Greek students, with the ultimate objective of course becoming a very fast majority in Greek schools. It is the same trick as the one with the supposedly temporary stay of all illegal immigrants. They're here to stay. As we have also denounced in the Committee on Morphic Affairs, the country's Islamisation Plan under SYRIZA - ANEL and the New Democracy and other forces is under way. All of this, of course, with the degradation of the Greek education that we must have and we are entitled to, and of course with the distortion or deterioration of our history, especially for good reasons, as regards the revolution of 1821 and our release from Ottoman animals. This is also a complaint from the Association of Philologists. Evidently the eruption and operation of mosques will only be the beginning. In any case, domestics as well as incoming terrorists in cooperation with the well-known non-governmental organisations need guiding and refuges all over the country in order to launch their attacks. Besides, the mosque will be unbaptised for the Police, as will the State of Excavations. On this particular issue, which is very serious, you could make a referendum, as we said in the committee, but these ways are rather democratic for you. For the articles in the bill, we have been placed in committee and in plenary today in a clear manner. At the hearing of the bodies, opacity and partisan phenomena were denounced not only in the selection of directors but also in the system in general. Issues such as the true role of the Director, the exclusion of alternates and directors, mobilisation, the stable institutional framework of crises, the necessary computer knowledge, at least level 1, were denounced in committee. Because really good is the painting and chalk but necessary is also the use of the interactive table and the knowledge of the function of the "My school". There is a need, of course, for administrative training. In fact, there has been talk to the committee of bodies about another missed opportunity, but mainly about customer relations, relations between different countries, trading relationships and, of course, about both speed teachers. We are positive about setting up a School of Education Executives and of course we are defenders of merit, which, unfortunately, is not served in this area. We also have a positive attitude on the provision concerning the PSAs in island areas, because it is easier for island students to go to school and a professional incentive is given to stay in their home area, while, unfortunately, most of them are forced to leave abroad, where they are staying, working there and, unfortunately, there they will be family. We also have a complaint from a teacher regarding the treatment of multitude teachers. There has also been a question from the competitor Kassidiaris about the need to protect the multitude of teachers who have been designatedly overnumbered. I'm answering the question. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Antony Gregos, presents for the minutes the above question, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We are waiting for the Minister's answer. I will not present the teacher's letter for good reason. Our education is suffering and is suffering not only because of the economic crisis. Not because it is not really a national education, with the aim of strengthening national consciousness. We must also say here that those teachers who practice militant anti-national propaganda should be expelled. Here, too, we parents should also check school books and teachers, with the role we are entitled to have and of course, as we have already said, we should also be actively involved in the parents and guardians' associations. Therefore, the result of these Marxist standards is also the disgraceful image of universities, which have turned into a man of every criminal element, with the most immunized immunity, which should be immediately abolished. It would be a good thing, in fact, if there were also a permanent police force in place in order not to mourn victims. Victims, of course, will also be mourning with unprecedented tolerance, not to say support, for giving the bums we see every day on television to commit a mass of felonies, while, according to complaints, the arrest of these criminals, who are meant to murder and, if at any time, they are brought forward, this is only virtual. We saw them yesterday, we will continue to see them. However, the situation in schools is an example of what I am about to mention. At a school in Thessaloniki, in order to make the trip to Athens, the sum of about 120 euros was set. At the initiative of the manager and the parents' associations, some costs would be covered. Do you know how many have declared participation, Minister? Only six people declared participation. It is really disgraceful, and this has also a terrible impact on psychology and their students and parents. This is the situation in education, therefore, as a result of the four memoranda that you have voted and those that you need to vote for, in order to stay in your chairs and receive your gross wages. Many laws that you have passed, of course, as it seems with this bill, are unconstitutional. Another reason to prove that you have no difference from your predecessors. We had denounced and proved with unequivocal evidence and the Government of New Democracy and PASOK on the offences of the abolition of the Constitution and of the offense of the constitution, and of course you seem to be on the same road. We, loyal to our ideas, our positions, our programme and above all, to the people's mandate that we are constantly taking from the Greek people, state that as long as it goes through our hand we will not leave our country in the fingernails of the SYRIZA ethnicists or the patriots of the New Democracy. These forces must be isolated, set aside where they really belong. Our debt, as parents first and then as representatives of the nation, is to defend and create a truly national education from the beginning. Faced with the darkness and intolerance of SYRIZA and its components, against the miserable populism of the New Democracy, we are, as a real national resistance, the scourge of multiculturalism and globalisation, next to the Greek people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u181	I would ask that Mr Ioannis Saridis, Member of the Centron Association, should come to Stepma for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u182	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I asked for the floor because I thought it was important that the Greeks, here from the Step of the House, listened to the arguments of the political thought of the Centroon Union. I am of course taking into account what is provided for in Article 5 of the bill under discussion and in the attitude of the Independent Greeks, the partner of the co-government, and everything that has been said in this regard. I am therefore addressing you, ladies and gentlemen of the Independent Greeks, asking what message you are sending and to whom you decide to vote against this article. Have you considered the consequences of your attitude? Do you think that when the Greeks arrive at the polling time and weigh on the fact that you colluded with SYRIZA and on the other hand, how did you resist the mosque will they find this inexpensive resistance politically heavier? From the red lines that the Independent Greeks have sometimes set for their participation in the government, the only thing that has been kept intact to date is in this particular subject, but they know well that negative vote cannot affect the result. However, your message is extremely misleading, ladies and gentlemen of the Independent Greeks. So, what are you trying to tell the citizens and indeed as a co-government party? That by blocking the building of the mosque we are somehow constraining Turkish aggression or Islamic terrorism? But can you claim that? The debate on Islamic terrorism is very serious to use in this context arguments that serve to misinform the citizens. The same applies to the action of Turkish secret services, ladies and gentlemen of the Independent Greeks, in the wider region of the Balkans, which is very dangerous to Greece, and that is why it is neither useful nor valid to claim that we should block the mosque in the Botanic, because that is what you are saying to us. The Turkish, ladies and gentlemen, are systematically strengthening, in every way and in every way, with extreme nationalist behaviour and demonstrated support for forces that promote violence. The Greeks of Northern Epirus live under the terrorist regime and their persecutors are paid with money coming from Turkey. Will all this be stopped because the Independent Greeks will vote against Article 5 for the mosque? Let's not be fooled. Ladies and gentlemen, Greece respects human rights - let us start from there - not because it is subjected by an international instrument or by a foreign factor, but because it requires its culture, its history and its conscience. It is not only the promises, which we have given as a Greek state, as a Greek democracy, that commit us to grant the freedom to exercise religious traditions to every citizen. They are our own Constitution, the principles and values of democracy as they were first heard in our place, which obliges us to demonstrate the respect that others in the renowned Greeks want to show when they seek to build a Orthodox church where they are located to baptize their children, to get married, to bury their people. Greece is not allowed to grant rights for comments, while fighting for the fairs of the Ecumenical Patriarchate and claims the opening of historical Orthodox churches in Turkey. In short, your attitude does not serve the national interest, because it weakens many of our arguments, which support many important claims of Hellenism. Your attitude, too, has no objection to or leads to any political result or conclusion and therefore does not offer anything to deal with the Turkish threat or Islamic terrorism. It is indeed proven that in many European cities the operation of many Islam adorable sites is being used to recruit jihadists. That is something we must take seriously, but we cannot, as the rule of law, allow fear to determine our actions. We are a civilised democratic country, a member of the Eurozone and NATO. Alas, if we do not have a state organisation, and we do not have the competent administrative structures to effectively deal with any threats to national security arising from the functioning of a mosque. Woe if we don't have or don't we have? Ladies and gentlemen, I shall close my speech with the following comment on your current position. If you want to resist something that might catch a place, resist those who deny the Genocide of the Pontians and those who question the importance of the relationship between the state and the church, resist some crazies that sound like the madabories we have heard recently and which we have heard from both ministers and members of this government in the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u183	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, forty-seven students and students as well as five teachers from the 43rd Municipal School of Thessaloniki and from the 2nd Municipal School of Perama Rethymno. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We are going with Mr. Athanasio Michalis, MP of SYRIZA. Here, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u184	Thank you, Mr President. Many and interesting things could be said about education issues. I will begin with this: The experience and history of the selection of training managers are divided into two major periods, one until 1986, when the model applied to the selection of training managers was the classic bureaucratic model, according to which the teacher or teacher became an assistant gymnastic, high school, high school, inspector. This model was based on the evaluation reports, what the New Democracy colleagues and others are saying today. So let me read to you a few of one of the things I have written. He therefore writes an evaluation report of an instructor, on the basis of which he proclaimed a position: "I am working with the High Commissioner for Military and Police, not once he took the weapon in his hand and joined on their side in the face of gang attacks, although he had been fired from the military orders." I continue with another report "Sister of Anti-National Actors, for this reason condemned by the court to death and executed as a comrade of Fitsios does not look forward with gratitude and is not directed towards the directions of the civil state. Appropriate measures will be taken, as long as it does not comply." Another exhibition, referring to a teacher, "His involvement in the Eamical and later period in favour of anarchist and left-wing elements makes it difficult to carry out the teaching work because of the indignation of the nationally-indignant residents". And because these are before the CPI, I'll read one after the CPI. '17 July 1975, the Republic of Cyprus answers a question from the respected Ministry of Education. Police headquarters. It is quite true that, as far as I know and believe, the person mentioned above does not belong to any subversive political organization, and does not believe or embodies the anarchy. The Chief of Police." All the above obviously constitutional, no unconstitutional position. So this model was overturned because this assessment was overturned, it collapsed. And it was the teachers' request. From 1986 onwards, we went to the participatory model in this, where the selection of executives took place with qualifications, with a choice from the service councils, in which we have been involved since 1975 and then a representative seat from 1986 and then two elected representatives from the employees. What's our effort now? Enlarge this participatory model. And what is the attempt of counterpopulation through escapades, not to answer that question? It is not a constitutional issue, it is not the Councils that function well, it is not, that is to say, not the blocking of this model. And what is the attempt of a neoliberal viewpoint? A market school where the manager will be chosen on the basis of the objectives pursued. It's another third model for organization and administration. This third model can be appropriate for a business, for a football team to choose its coach to be appropriate for school, ladies and gentlemen, not because we Syrians are obsessed, but because the school is practicing youth based on democracy, solidarity and tolerance. To discipline the teacher, that saying must apply: "Teacher, keep the same law, be a democrat, not keep the law. You must be democratic in your attitude too." From the whole debate, the participatory model was not directly questioned. The question of evaluation has also arisen. I'm not one of those who refuse evaluation. I am one of those who mentioned these evaluation elements, which everyone else is disobeying, possibly - I understand - not to know them or to forget them, but we must not forget, in order not to repeat the same mistakes, the recent assessment of New Democracy and Mr Mitsotakis, where the experience of evaluation in education and the wider public sector with redundancies of two and a half thousand teachers has been cancelled for a second time, with provision for those who are under 30% of the rating being made redundant. It is clear that such an assessment cannot be accepted. To conclude, I would like to say this: for once the issue of regional directors has been raised. The President of the New Democracy also pointed it out today. Look, the AACC was founded in 1994 or 1995, as I have heard. The relevant regional directors' legislation is dated 2000, and regional directors are planning to be a teacher of increased qualifications in the Minister's choice. If I remember correctly, from 2000 to 2015, no Minister of New Democracy or PASOK raised a question of selecting regional directors through the AACC. It's coming now. I'd say good. Let's start this conversation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u185	We are going with the President of the Golden Dawn Parliamentary Group, Nikos Michaloliakos. Mr President, you have the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u186	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should first like to denounce through this Stepma to the Greek people that yesterday, 23 May, there was a memorial in honor of the hero Smenagou Iliaki and the Municipality of Karpathos had sent an invitation to all Members of our party. They were chosen to go to Karpathos to honor this great Greek who spilled his blood for Greece, two of our MPs. Olympiacos didn't have a route. We contacted the Department of National Defence. No answer. Finally, C-130 is not the property of Panos Kammenos or the Tsipras Government. And while C-130 went MPs from the other parties, the Members of the Golden Dawn were excluded. And of course, this action is not the only one and one blockade. I would like to ask and ask not you, Mr President, a rhetorical question to the Greek people. You have made a decision that you have ruled out from the debate on the memorandum on the whole Golden Dawn Parliamentary Group. Speaking of the President of Parliament, Mr. Voutsis, said at a radio station: "It was an important step taken by the House in the past few days, which was a stigma". This stigma concerns all in here, all parties, SYRIZA, New Democracy, PASOK, Independent Greeks, KKE. And I would like to ask: we, who were not even present in the Chamber at that time, how did you exclude us? How did you rule out all the Members of the Golden Dawn because - he says - they were shouting? Everyone yelled. It was a field. Rainbows sounded in every direction. Just Golden Dawn to be punished? But you should know that these blockades eventually make the Golden Dawn stronger, which is consistently fighting for the home and the people and constantly rising, whether you want it or not, whatever exclusion you do at our expense. [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] On the occasion of this incident, the MP, the state-in-law of Kerkyras, came out with a few dozen votes in Corfu, and then moved to Athens for the first reason of the party nomenclavura - Mr. Dendias, who said about us in a public statement: "Golden Dawn is not just a far-right party, it is the invocation of nationalism. We must deprive them of the cloak of the use of the Greek flag." He wants to deprive us of the right to keep the Greek flag. Really, would you also make us subtract from natives, like others did in some other times? We have the Greek flag in our hearts and will hold it high, whether you like it or not. [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] I would therefore like to ask the Commissioner if he would be prepared to give us an answer on the matter. No one has said in this Chamber that the Tsipras - Kammenos Government has committed itself, twice as well, irrevocably that it will not raise a question of debt relief until August 2018, with signatures by Mr Tsipras and Mr Tsakalotos. In particular, the text of the Decision of the Council of the Heads of State or Government of the Eurozone of 12 July 2015, signed by Mr Tsipras in particular in the text: Nominal debt haircut cannot be carried out. In addition, the Eurogroup Decision of 25 May 2016, signed by Mr Tsakalotos, mentions features: the possible debt relief will be implemented after the end of the programme in mid- 2018. So fairy tales and lies about debt relief and on 15 July, we hope that you will, at last, keep a political commitment. If you make a deal without debt relief, you'll have to resign. That's what political ethics says and finally stop lying, like a sketching memorial, and so on. However, innocent of the whole case for this new memorandum, it is not the New Democracy. A single phrase could be said in this debate, in which it first came with you on the blockade of the Golden Dawn. He could say that 'if we become a government, we will not stick to the measures'. Not only did he say so, but by declaring Mr Mitsotakis himself, he promised that he would implement the measures. So it's collective responsibility. And collective responsibility has been decided by you democrats. What democrats? When a man like your Prime Minister Mr. Tsipras says he admires Mao Tse Tung or goes to honor Fidel Castro, what kind of democrats are you? When you had relationships as a party mechanism in your previous history - an internal KIC - to the Tsaucescu regime that let babies die in the thermos, what do you have to do with democracy? Well, that relationship you have with democracy also had those who in the French Revolution set up the guillotines and hanged and beheaded thousands of people. And because you accuse us of preaching hate, I have here an excerpt from a show of "ERT Open", which goes hand in hand with SYRIZA, where a professional anti-racist and anti-fascist, referring to the murder of our two competitors, says: "November 1st, when it is the anniversary of the execution of worms." That's how your comrades, your protected youths, the antifascists talk. Of course, the same expression is used in the editors' Newspaper. Otherwise, we are making sermons of hatred! You do hate sermons and you don't understand that you're out of place and time, that "Mama Moscow" is over, that Bolshevikism belongs to the fossils of history, that nationalism comes either you want it or you don't want it. [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Secretary-General of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Michalliakos presents for the minutes the above-mentioned publications, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Of course, today's bill is about education. It is a bill from the Ministry of Education, which also concerns the mosque. It would be unfair, however, and we would limit the matter if we were not to talk more generally about the direction that Greek education has taken. I will read you on this point in order to find some excerpts from the announcement by the Panhellenic Association of Philologists, who expresses his overall opposition to the proposed plan for the change of school books in history and stresses: "According to the proposed ones, every teacher can teach what he likes and according to his or her ideological and political views." And as we well know, with the ideological and political terrorism of the Marxist Left, which has existed since 1974, teachers of the generation of the Polytechnics and teachers are pedagogical souls in our schools. It is very characteristic that the Panhellenic Association of Philologists also says that "educationally beneficial is that students outside Europe cultures, outside the limits of western civilization, but since they have learned in depth about Greek history". Multiculturalism may be an objective, but not the sovereign. They want Greek-centered education, but you don't listen to them, obeying the blemishes of globalisation, world civilization, a more humiliated internationalism. The Committee's proposals undermine the teaching of Greek history, as stated here. Ancient Greek History will not be taught, the Greek Revolution of 1821 will not be taught and its protagonists will instead have different sociological discussions. It is characteristic that all the great mentors of your linen and teeth, with rabies and passion, strive to prove that there is no historical continuity of the Greeks. They say that ethnicity took place in the late 19th century as a revolt of the French Revolution and that there was no national conscience. I will read you an excerpt from a letter sent by a great Greek, Plenithon Gemithos, to Emperor Manuel Palaiologos at 1412, almost three hundred years before the French Revolution, where he said: "Esmen gar to those who lead it and reign Greeks. This gard sees the country as Greek esteemed.” That's what you want to change, but you won't succeed. To perpetuate all the things you have put on the forefront of your struggle, in order to alter Greek history, one not goldenygite responds, but the former Rector of the University of Panteion, Mr. Kontogiorgis, who, referring to these various professors who are planning what Greeks will learn the following statement: "These people are from unwritten to volunteers, that is, they are not aware of what the continuity means or the continuity of history. They parrot some things the Westerners say, which do not have any continuity in their history, because they were born as new nations in the 18th and 19th century." The main thing, however, is that they are propagandaing the western version of the discontinuance of Hellenism, because the West wants to do so. But that's not all. They want to change the people. And if they could change him, they'd change him. That's what you want to change the people. That is why the millions of refugees and illegal immigrants come here. But you have before you the Golden Dawn, which consistently strives for a great purpose, for Greece to belong to the Greeks. [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] We are now coming to discuss a draft law by the Ministry of Education, also in relation to the mosque, which was set up by a decision of the House. But before the mosque was founded, a law had to be changed. Thus, the Government of Samaras - Venizelos with Law No.4301/2014, Article 9, abolished the necessary - until this thing was legislated - an element of the licence that the relevant Metropolitan had to give. And the party of your political partner, Mr Panos Kammenos, who opened the gates in this way, also voted to make the mosques. Otherwise, by voting, he will vote against the bill. How do you accept as a government that you vote against the party you co-operate with, a bill? Resign! You are losing the declared in the motion for a resolution. But you have a pillow for other cosmopolitans and internationalists from PASOK and Potami, who will agree. I come to Article 1 of the bill, which is relevant to the selection of school directors. You had made a trivial piece of legislation, according to which elections had to be held between teachers, so that the head of school would come out. The Council of State has rightly denounced this issue and so now you are coming with a new law, where you are building regional service councils, which will have a decisive say in the selection of directors. However, from the seven of this council, only the two are elected. The other five are appointed by the Ministry. Therefore, put comisars to check this issue too. I come to Article 5 of the famous motto, which you are making a legal person under private law. The Greek people, who are starving, will pay all the costs for this mosque. And you literally put a bomb on the foundations of Greek society, saying that on this seven-member board there will be two representatives of the Muslim community of Attica, on the basis of their response. What are you gonna do? Elections to Muslims in Athens? Are you out of your mind? Are you completely dissolving Greece? Golden Dawn will vote against your bill, will denounce the Stalinist methods of exclusion and move forward with high flags. We can't stop either your screaming or your insults or your exclusions. We will win, because it is the law of the nation.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u187	We proceed with the Parliamentary spokesman of SYRIZA Mr Fotini Vakis for 12 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u188	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are today called on to amend the method of selecting the directors of primary, secondary and special education units laid down in Law No.4317/2015, following the decision of the Plenary Assembly of the Council of State. This Decision is addressed to Decision 711/2017. Ladies and gentlemen, the distinction of powers, the cornerstone of the democratic culture and a great new insertion, requires respect and full compliance with the decisions of justice. It requires that justice always operate unbiasedly, unannouncedly, blindly. Of course, as far as the decisions are concerned, and the lilies are judged. I am not going to make a crisis for the Council of State. But I have to defend a law, Law No.4317/2015, which at that time I have had the honour of warmly defending this Step here as a special buyer. And it was a law, which recommended a legislative habitat of timeless demands and struggles, democratic desires and anguish of the educational community. I have also stressed this many times that in our country the history of the educational movement is identical to the struggles for democracy, the struggles for the elimination of the inequalities that the ideal of public and free education brings. In the spring of 2015, therefore, the resolution of the participation of teachers in the selection of directors and directors by secret ballots, the realisation in other words of the hereditary administration, revived democracy, as much as it could, a distorting hierarchical system, upgraded the role of the school of teachers by consultancy in a decisive way and turned the school manager first into equal, casting light on the black, which had not only fallen into ERT, but also on education. In order not to forget, teachers were under the regime of the way of availability and were recruited preventively on the basis of a camouflaged peculiarity, which considered its involvement in demonstrations and strikes inappropriate. Teachers had become project handlers without the right to equal participation in its content and in the overall operation of the school unit. Of course, their directors had made managers who evaluated colleagues, subduing them to the jewels of the market. And they weren't the perfect ones, of course, but the great ones. Because, ladies and gentlemen of the Anti-Population, in order not to forget, the rabies battle you had given in spring 2015, the rabies battle that the Anti-Policy and, in particular, the New Democracy and the PASOK against the secret vote for the selection of directors did not dictate from your unambiguous faith in the principle of worthiness, but because it was manipulating the secret vote from the old communal bonds that you had created for public education, overthrown the communal vessels between the political system and the education administration and put an end to the opaque choice of "mers" with a key tool to exclude others in the interview. Would you like to remind me of some examples? Who were the candidate directors in 2007? The 2007 Candidate Directors, many of them, were elected representatives of the AACC and PASC. Although against the decisions of the trade unions and the decision 759/2005 of the Athens Administrative Court, they did not have the elementary emotiveness to exclude themselves from the crisis process. Of course, there's something else here. The Heads, members of the service councils, were related to those assessed. Refer to the minutes of the courts of that time. I am fishing for these from an important article by "GENELIORO" the column "Immediately" of 19 November 2007 by hand of Mr. Triantafyllos Mitafidis. And not to assume that Mr. Mitafidis in his article shared, he had used this article and as material for the trials he was present with. Article 1, therefore, of the bill we are discussing and we are called upon to vote today is correct and balanced because it is attempting to heal the anti-constitutional provisions of the previous law on the secret ballot procedure by maintaining the democratic impotences of the country's educational past set by the previous law. Therefore, although the secret ballot is abolished, the teachers' club is consulted, which is recorded in the form of a practice included in the crisis file, even if it does not give access to particleation or does not bind the selection process. The selection process is formulated as follows: A competent crisis body is the relevant regional education board and there is a modulation of the educational skills, the education service, the structured interview, the recording of which is filed and accessible. Let it therefore be inspired, without voices, a party colourlessness and a political unreserved religion of education officials who started to launch the previous bill of 2015 and let us continue working on it for which we have committed ourselves, for a school of quality and equality. Since I referred to the term unworthy religion, let me also a brief reference to the many-faced theme of the Islamic Mosque of Athens. Of course, amendments are introduced to Law 3512/2016 in relation to the administrative organisation of the Islamic Mosque of Athens, which is under erect. The legal person responsible for the administration of the mosque and its relations with the State and local government are updated in more detail. With regard to the general spirit of the building and operation of the mosque, it is worth wondering that although the legislative framework for the building of a mosque was adopted in 2006 mainly under the pressure of the country's international obligations, since we are the only European country that had not anticipated in this regard, we had to arrive in early August 2016 - a decade later, with a government of SYRIZA - ANEL - to vote in August 2016 on the speeding up and concreteing of its up-to-date procedures. Lack of political will for a forced outside legislative force, which, due to the many years of thousands of Muslims were performing their religious duties in improvised mosques, garages and outdoors, internally rejecting, blocking and suppressing? What happened? The realisation of the creation of the mosque and the upcoming establishment of a Muslim cemetery is not only dictated by the constitutional fundamental principle of freedom of religious expression, nor by any European requirement of our compliance with the one artificially ignored for many years. It comes from the beginning of a "greater" democratic state, as well as from the scoring of another Europe that comes from the far 17th century, when John Locke in his famous "Lettering of unworthy religion" claimed that "no man to this day cannot neglect the care of his own salvation and accept unfoundedly the religion that one has chosen for him, be it king he or a citizen". John Locke, 17th century. The intolerance, hate sermons armed with ISIS and turning European cities into bloodbaths will not stop them, but will intensify them social, racial and religious exclusions. The extremism experienced by the ground floor will not overthrow Hi - Tech post - post - crossings, enclosures and demonstrations of religious and Islamophobia. A Europe that is fortified in the walls of cleanliness and sterile by the outsider will have lost the rights of man and of the citizen, who define it and thus also its soul. The only shield in fanaticism, armed hands and soaring terror, is its very opposite, an open and tolerant society, inexhaustible and democratic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u189	Thank you to Mrs Fotini Vakis, SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative. Ladies and gentlemen, at this point I have the honour of announcing to the House that the Ministers for Culture and Sport, Foreign Affairs, Finance and Health, as well as the Deputy Minister for Culture and Sport, today tabled 25-5-2017 draft laws: 1. "Following the Memorandum of Understanding in the field of sport between the Ministry of Culture and Sport of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Youth and Sport of the Arab Republic of Egypt". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. ‘Sports cooperation between the Ministry of Culture and Sport of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Youth and Sport of the Republic of Iraq’. They shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. We continue with the Member of the New Democracy, Mr Christo Kella. Here, Mr. Kelles, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u190	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, education should without second thought be away from micro-political purposes and beyond all sorts of ideas. The SYRIZA - ANEL Government, however, in the last two and a half years, has nothing else to show, except dangerous national and obsessive behaviours, but also a recital of electoral announcements in the broader context of the desperate effort to remain frustrated in power. One would expect our educational system to adapt to the new data, which was created by the crisis on the one hand and globalisation on the other, and which should be the main criteria at every step of the Ministry of Education with transparency, dialogue with the institutions, but also a high sense of responsibility towards the new generation. Instead, the leadership of the Ministry of Education ignores the essentials and focuses on anything that can provide a temporary benefit. One day the Prime Minister announces the abolition of the pan-Hellenic examinations by the Ministry of Education and this afternoon the Minister of Education says he does not know when, how it will be implemented. After all, the government is very generous. You know what you remind me of? The memorable Dino Iliopoulou, who said that "I am the most sincere liar you could have". I would now like to focus on two decisions that give rise to great concern, but which reveal both your idealism. With your decision, Minister, you are implementing a pilot project in kindergartens operating in purely minority settlements in Thrace and speaking about the use of the mother tongue as a support language. Who did you talk to? What do you mean, a mother tongue? Who will teach? Full ambiguity. And at the same time, of course, that you are cutting off for the minorities of the country, you are doing exactly the opposite for the Greeks of the diaspora. Does the Minister know about the closure of the Greek "Aristotelis" school in Munich and the redistribution of pupils to other schools and the upheaval of the Greek "Aristotle" school in Munich? I shall mention to you, Minister, another characteristic example of arbitraryness, which concerns the Larisa Prefecture to which I am elected. The gaps in organic positions, as you know very well, give them to the Regional Directorate of Thessaly. Is that right? The Regional Directorate of Thessaly gave twenty-two teachers' gaps. Do you know how many transfers were made? None! Do you know why? For the Ministry said: 'Zone in Larissa and say the regional director wants'. I'm coming to the bill. First of all, it's rough. There is no consultation on the procedure, no draft conclu­sions. For the selection of school managers you have modified Law 3848/2010 twice in 2015 and now you are going to amend the amended provisions and maintain some unchanged provisions. Do you not understand, however, that this is how you are causing a huge alalum that is likely to bring ambiguities and errors in the application? Secondly, the bill is fragmentary. However, we have said that fragmentation is the quintuosity of the rosphetus. Why wasn't a bill submitted for all training executives? Why did you choose to legislate only for school managers?) Common sense says that crises should first be made for choices of school counsellors, following the training directors and then the school directors. What are you doing now? Put the cart in front of the horse. He's not walking! You corrected, even at the last moment for this year, the provision that it intended not to be able to apply for managers who have two terms of office in the same position. But what about the next crises? On what time do you legislate? It is a bill - 'blocking'. And you know why I call it that? Because you go back to the situation created after the decision of the Council of State, placing them as head of the selection boards, baptizing teachers, who have administrative experience in a place of training director. If that's possible! I would like to mention briefly the articles. With regard to Article 1(4), the law clearly defines what the teaching service is. What are you talking about? Why are all the posts in office not counted as a teaching service? Why is the term of office of a school advisor not recognised as teaching work? Why are you counting the teaching term at the HEIs, but at the TEIs you didn't count it? Why is training permission to get a doctorate not counted? As far as paragraph 5 is concerned, you are welcome to reinstate the interview, but you are wrongly involved with the training association, and you are named after it. Determine precisely, Minister, the duration and content of the interview. Where does the selection board get the right to exclude from the further candidate procedure, which the interview finds is not suitable for the performance of the Director's duties? This provision is illegal, and arbitrary, and unconstitutional. The legislator must expressly specify cases where the candidate can be judged inappropriate for training, for example for psychiatric and medical reasons. I come to mobilize scientific and administrative qualifications. We all understand that you can with the eight molecules of the famous interview place managers of your choice, whoever you want, since the eight molecules together exceed the overall molecules of the scientific and administrative qualifications, which are a half-mile. And I continue with paragraph 6. Is it possible in 2017 that school managers do not have a level I computer knowledge certificate, the elementary ones? I come to Article 3 on special treatment. I do not know if the two terms of office at the same school apply to the next manager’s crises, but for the special schools it must not apply. I have said so to the committee, and I will say again that this will change one of the least stable faces of special schools, that of the director. You know this, Minister, that special schools have so many specialities.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u191	That's what's changed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u192	When? Now?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u193	It became legal yesterday!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u194	Good. It's in the right direction. In Article 3(2), you refute the recently adopted article 48 of Law 4415/2016 and thus remove the priority and hierarchy of teachers with special treatment qualifications in secondments. In this way you degrade the quality of the educational work provided to both SSMEE and CEDEFOP. In addition, in order to treat the atomisation with the circular of extracts, in which a full case of PYPE or PYPE in PYPEPETE was not included, you refer to the extracts of the same address. So what do you say to teachers? In any case, you couldn't come because the secondment is about the same address. However, a strange move is also the retroactive power of the device from 2016-2017. And all those who attended the ESDP seminars that were dragged to this end, what will happen? Illegally, have they gone to the seminars or become illegal and thus the seminars themselves are not eligible? Ladies and gentlemen, Aristotle had said that those who carefully studied the way in which people are governed must be convinced that the fate of the nations depends on the education of young people. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In your conscience, however, public education is nothing more than another micro-participatory tool and you prove it every day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u195	Thank you, Mr. Kelles. The President of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) of the European People's Party, Mr Leventis, has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u196	Mr President, Minister - I think you are one of the Ministerial Council - and ladies and gentlemen, you are present, my good evening to everyone. Education is a very important thing, one which, when we have been thinking over the last hundred years, we see that one or two people have taken it seriously. It was Papanoutsos and George Papandreou. All the others - many ministers passed - were from toothpastes to non-existent, not even recorded. But Papanoutsos and George Papandreou were people with great love for youth. And say something that you do not know or recall: they did the least of the reforms, precisely because they wanted them to be reforms. Papanouchos reformed, but he reformed very specific things. It did not start to say "What councils we will do, which people of ours will make the judgments, who will advance". Man laid the foundations of the building, because there were no foundations until then. There was just the patriotism of the teachers. For so far, in education, because we have provided little, what exists and deserves is the patriotism of the teachers of all three grades. This patrioticism was modulating our children. The supplies were detached. I remember in high school at the 5th Pireau High School, we did an hour in a building, the second hour a mile away. Then we went back to the building. He who speaks to you from such education has passed and yet I had entered the polytechnics among the first without instruction, without going to schooling. Remember that. Therefore, the stress of each minister should not be to change everything, but rather to rationalise it, to prioritise and to lay the foundations. And in education too, there had to be a cross-party perspective, not every minister to do his own and the next one to dismantle it all. For example, we had Mr. Friends - who is also my dear friend, Mr. Philis - who in the religion - belonging to the Ministry of Education - had some views. Next guy backed up. What's that? Is there no government view of whether we support religion? Is one minister like this, the other one? These are unauthorized things. We have hardly promoted post-university exchanges at all. We're way behind foreign-language universities. In Greece we do not only need universities. We must promote foreign-language teaching in universities too much. We must also give more weight to the Greek language. Because today we are producing European citizens and not only Greek citizens. And that is very essential. There's no one doing anything, no money is less. Days ago I saw a man, he introduced me as president of a foreign-language university. He said to me: "We're still in the spasm, Mr. President. Help up our role, increase our students, our potential." So this is the most essential thing I can see, that everyone has the stress to leave his seal and I fear that instead of a seal he leaves his pollutants and we only clean up, that's what we do, and the other one comes and says 'I'll change them all'. That tactic's wrong. Arvanitopoulos and everyone, and the neo-democratic, in other words, Arvanitopoulos, had this stress. Many of them went through the Ministry of Education, held conferences. Did they get anything? They didn't do anything. Because Arvanitopoulos is Piraeus, I know him, so I can combine him with the Ministry of Education, or I would have forgotten he was in the Ministry of Education. Imagine what seal he left and how muddy he left her! So, overall, it's wrong what you're doing. We should not do anything in education and do a 20-year-old intergroup to decide what changes we are all going to make together and not the government to legislate with a hundred and fifty-three votes. Suppose you were enough in this sad number under the pressure of the troika sometimes for economics. But in education, a hundred and fifty-three? What's that? As far as education is concerned, the figures should be two hundred fifty, such numbers as accepting some things. So I think it's wrong all your thoughts and stress to change them. You alone brought a bill from time to time, which gave judges the crisis and a representative of OELE. It was a three-member committee. Now you come and, while you changed the procedure, the crisis goes to judges, you return it to party bodies. Party organs go when the judges leave. That is what the amendment you tabled says. You tabled an amendment of twenty-eight Members. You didn't testify to her? What does this amendment say? That it will not be a three-member committee of judges, but it will be SYRIZA parties, the multi-annual ones. Why didn't you leave the judges?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u197	It has been abolished for two years.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u198	It has been abolished for two years and you want to bring it back, bring the parties back, because without party parties we will get sick!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u199	On this point, because you are causing me, you have not read it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u200	Listen to something, days ago you voted to stop this. Or did you not understand what you voted for? I am sorry, obviously, that the 'golden-hot dogma', to vote without reading, we have all adopted it as a contagious disease. A day ago with the Memorandum you brought this issue of promotions and evaluations to a committee. Now you want to abolish it. Okay. I have read the amendment, unless you have tabled it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u201	The Minister explained it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u202	Don't interrupt, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u203	What did the Minister explain? That it won't happen? That he withdrew her? Who will do the evaluations, Minister? The judges? Will the courts make the assessments?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u204	Don't answer now, Minister. Then. Don't have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u205	According to what we are voting on now, who will do the evaluations?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u206	Do I have to answer that?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u207	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u208	Mr Leventis, if you are going to blame me - as I have heard you, you have done so a moment ago - it is good to read what the amendment says. You've got it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u209	I saw the amendment you brought in. Not you, the MPs.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u210	Yeah, but that's where you unraveled an entire account. Look, this amendment is basically not an amendment. It is a statement of what is currently in force. For disciplinary purposes...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u211	For a good reading.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u212	There has been legislation on disciplinary matters since 1977. Is it possible there's no disciplinary arrangement and we have to go...?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u213	And what does the amendment say?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u214	It states that this has been the case since 1977.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u215	In other words, parties will make the assessments and not judges.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u216	But the judges never did the evaluations.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u217	Gentlemen, the judges must do so.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u218	That's what we agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u219	Everyone inside the Ministries is a piece of dogfish. They are condemning - and rightly so - teachers who are the victims of persecution. How will we ensure the crisis? If you were an instructor and are persecuted, wouldn't you like a body impartial to judge you?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u220	That's disciplinary.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u221	Would you like to be judged in SYRIZA, two of PASOK's and call that a judgment?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u222	Don't expose yourself. That's disciplinary. Disciplines are disciplinary. They're not parties. You're in trouble.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u223	I know. Who are they, though? And the PSE is an independent authority, but if I count, two are SYRIZA, one from Potami and one from PASOK.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u224	Oh, good.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u225	I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. And now the Minister is accusing him of not doing his job. You had a fight to build an ER, you made it up of party parties, and now the Minister comes out and accuses them of not doing their job. Anyway.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u226	And the New Democracy has.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u227	And the New Democracy has in the PSE. I didn't say he didn't. You've got parties. I didn't say he didn't. And now this ERR, which is made up of parties, you want to solve the issue... And you know what they do, Mr President - since you are here listening to them - the news releases and the ERT and the MEGA and the 'ANT1'? Thirty minutes SYRIZA, seven to eight minutes of Mitsotakis and when they arrive in the Centron Association, sometimes they put us, some not, for five seconds. This is the participation of the Centro Association in the news releases, Minister. This is democracy! Thirty-minute responses to Tsipras that he solves the financial problem, that we're getting off debts and debts, and Mitsotakis after that they're lying what SYRIZA says, and we're also...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u228	Mr President, because you have referred to most of these stations and to those to whom you have referred, the thirty-minute references to SYRIZA and the government are of the opponents and about one hybrid.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u229	No, it's not like that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u230	And no apocalypse. I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u231	Okay. I'll be cursed for 30 minutes, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u232	Because when the measurements are made...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u233	Listen. Once Terrence Quick told me that it's more accurate the advertising to call you than to glorify you. In the past, when it was in "AND1".
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u234	Okay. You don't claim that now. You claim they're rescinding him.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u235	I say: what democracy is this when the first party has thirty minutes, the second seven minutes and the other parties, 'cuts', from a few seconds? We've been waiting for a distribution of time on some criteria. That's where we wanted the PSE. So many months, what do those who took over and take their wages?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u236	They're trying.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u237	They're trying? Yeah, yeah, okay. They'll go away and be on their way.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u238	They're not leaving. It's been six years.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u239	And that mistake again, six years! Why six years? He says Stournaras must exhaust his five-year life, because if he does not exhaust it, we will pay him compensation. Why should we hire them in such circumstances, Mr President? The MP here is four years, then the election takes place every two years. Six years are we committing an economy to Mr Stournara, who said 90% of the reforms have been implemented? And the strangers came out and said that 8% has been done, because of the hundreds of forty, twelve have become! Take off the percentage.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u240	A hundred and twenty-five said, but that's okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u241	Anyway. You always count it as much as the expenses here in Parliament, which you said was not sixty, but seven. You don't put scientific partners in it. Why if three hundred and two hundred MPs become the same officials, will the House have? Will the same buildings be rented across the street for every Member who rents, Mr President? It's not just the Congressman's salary. Because the day before yesterday you exposed me. Going down from the Step, then you started. While I'm in Stepma, you should have made the remarks and not let me come down and then you should be heard, and I wouldn't be yelling out. You're also my colleague, a political engineer. I don't want to... I want to say a few words about the mosque. We all have to vote on the motion for a resolution, in my opinion. Those who don't vote do it out of a religious basket. We just have to have them banned from being financed by non-Greek nationals. It's over and out. The mosque should have done it long ago, since living in our country a great crowd of aliens. I support the official Church of Greece, but I cannot support fanatics. Clearly, therefore, the House must do so and it has been delayed. The appointments of those responsible must also be made by the Greek Government, and the suspected funding should be prohibited. Therefore, only Greek nationality can finance the mosque or other mosques that will become, because they will not stay with one. Because as long as we don't make a mosque, there's a thousand illegally operating in underground. Days ago residents came here from the Vineyards and told me that in the basement of the building they are about to make a mosque and gather in there and it's a mess. The residents of a building invented my disagreement and that a request had been made to the Fire Service to obtain approvals for a mosque. Of course, they didn't call a mosque, they called a warehouse. So, in order not to illegalise Muslims, we must legalise them and operate legally. I would like to say a few words about both economics and to hear from Mr Tsipras. Let it be absent, I know he'll hear it. I have warned at least five times - I have the tapes here - from the Step forward of the House that it is not about the obligation to take anything. You must be witnesses to my speech. The debt will be set in August 2018 and if we do not enter another memorandum. How did it go in August 2018? It was to be adjusted from 2014, but because of the third memorial we went further, beyond, and arrived in August 2018. Foreign debts will not be set for a country in a memorandum. When are they going to set it up? When the country leaves the surveillance and the Memorandums and has to come out of the markets and is an obstacle to the amount of debt, then the debt will be adjusted. And how will it be arranged? Not as every Mr. Tsipras and Mr. Mitsotakis dreams with a nominal haircut. Let us forget this because the debt has been transferred to the states. It will be done with prolongation of payments and with reductions in interest rates. You saw that Merkel came out of her speech days ago that it is 82 billion dollars that Germany will lose if the Greek debt is extended for twenty years further after 2018. The Germans have calculated the loss they will have from prolongation, from regulation. I don't understand Mr. Tsipras why he connected the second assessment with the debt. Obviously to make you vote. I can't find another explanation. Zero was hope for the debt. I, in fact, contacted three times with some factors and asked if there was any hope and they told me absolutely none. It's not a debt issue, it says. We are talking about accepting that at the end of the programme we will prolong all the bonds which expire at interest rates, if possible, 1% -1.5%, as much as the rate in the memorandum. That, he says, we can do it to you. However, debt regulation at the moment in a country that in the hundreds of prerequisites has fulfilled the twelve we cannot discuss, because we fear that Greece will relax. That's the foreigner's answer. So why did we do this and lose ourselves as a country from it, since it was known that foreigners would not accept a debt debate? Do you know when the debt debate was supposed to happen? When we do all the reforms, so all the parties will go out and demand a debt reduction for the country to survive. It is compulsory to reduce the debt, but from a country that has fulfilled its obligations, otherwise it is a quest. We've become bets. Mr Tsipras took a picturing picture and it is not an honour for the country at all, since there was no indication that the debt would be reduced. Now they relocated it and they say about 15:00. Not even on 15 will the debt be reduced. A declaration of sympathy can be made, since there is a decision by the Europeans that at the end of the programme they will reduce the debt. They have stated exactly how. They have stated how much it costs them. What did Mr. Tsipras want? Did he want another reason to calm down the parliamentary group? With diplomacy, will we play to "massage" the MPs of the government? That was a big mistake. I want to say something about Mr. Savvidis's story. I mean it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u242	Complete this, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u243	I shall end with that, Mr President. Don't worry. New Democracy came out and said banks had to confiscate, embed shareholders' shares. That's what he said. I broadcast to "ACTION" and there was a reporter in Kuvaras who told me that banks had to empower the shares of "PHYGASOS" so that he could not transfer them to Mr Savvidis. I said that entrepreneurialism can only become assets of a company that has received loans, because otherwise we could also go to Vardinoyannis's boats to get them. We could also go to Bobola's "Actor" company and get them. I don't understand what the bankers didn't do? The court departments of the banks did everything. The company had just died and only played the frequency, waiting for a strategic investor. You say it's a complication. The old one was yours and the new one was worse? There's a man found. Did you find a better one? I do not support Savvidis, and I am among those who want to control the origin of money. There can be no one here in the country buying one another, buying the other and not knowing where! I cannot accept that. However, I cannot accept that one who makes investments must 'eat' it! I can't accept that either. They were both parties in error. Mr SYRIZA, when he passed the amendment, did not have the courage to say that when we ask for investors, we must also get some privileges to these investors because otherwise they will not come. They're leaving, they're going to Romania. The New Democracy fell to eat him, because Savvidis made the mistake and said that Mitsotakis would not become Prime Minister. This was his big mistake, as he has no right to a businessman define who will become a Prime Minister. Who will become the Prime Minister, the Greek people, not the alpha businessman. However, it is not right that one who is present should 'eat it'! Where are the others? The others are hiding. Where are the other "dogfish" to make investments? Nobody! Minister, in the Ministry of Education's bill, if you've put 'particles' in the crisis committees, take them off and leave the judges. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u244	Thank you, Mr Leventis. Ladies and gentlemen, before we move on to the next speaker, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, twenty-nine students and students and five educational sessions from the 4th Preveza Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The Minister, Mr Gavroglou, has the floor to table some legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u245	Mr President, despite the fact that we in the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media yesterday, Amendment No 1034 is not acceptable. It is an amendment in relation to the equivalence of the degrees of primary education and kindergarten, under a postgraduate qualification. We've already given too high molecules to the Teachership. Postgraduate is a bit more than that. The absolute equivalence is legally impossible. The second relates to the "Sikiridio Foundation of Unappropriated Children", which we accepted from the Ministry of Labour. It has to do with insurance and tax information.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u246	This is already an article.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u247	Yeah, it's already integrated. Because we said it yesterday, that's why I mention it. Mr Mavrotas' number 1037 relates to the time of the school's preferences by the candidates. A piece of legislation was accepted in this respect, as was the case with Mr Constantopoulos and Mrs Kefalidou with exactly the same proposal. Both were incorporated into a legal improvement. Mr Constantopoulos and Mrs Kefalidou proposed an amendment which gives the elements of the structured interview. This cannot be incorporated into law. We will take it into account in the ministerial decision that the Ministerial Decision will identify such procedures. Obviously, we will take this into account, but it is not typically acceptable. So it's rejected. The number 1040 by Mr. Konstantopoulos and Mrs. Kefalidou relates to the measurement of the service of officials during a term of office as a teaching experience. This has been partly accepted by the legislative improvement we will be tabling, because we do not go to maximism for ten years, but go to maximism for eight years and include the services to which this amendment refers. So, typically not, but it's been taken into consideration in law-making. The number 1042 relates to the restoration of the omission of laboratory teaching staff by L.2017. Look, there's a thing here. I'll say it, so there's no misunderstanding. There's no allowance. We cannot accept that. However, it should be clear that this staff can continue to receive any remuneration from research programmes with which they have the contract. The possibility of receiving money from research programmes is not abolished, but we cannot get involved in the logic of the allowance. We have a well-known financial problem. The number 1043 is to regulate issues of the European Education School in Heraklion, but let us see it, because I understand that there are some problems. But, as an amendment, it cannot be accepted. Finally, there is an amendment by Mr Mitafidis, Mr Excellency and others on the question of the regulation of private education. It's on what Mr. Leventis referred to earlier. There has already been a communication, a press release from the Ministry of Education, which clarifies what is happening, because the amendment actually wanted to underline the importance of it, which is true and correct. I say this because it has been released that this has been somewhat lost. No, this legislation applies to disciplinary matters. We also announce it in a press release from the Ministry of Education. This is in terms of the amendments. We also have the legislative improvements I'm tabling.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u248	I would ask that the legal improvements be distributed to the honourable Members. Mrs Christophilopoulou, Member of the Democratic Alliance, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u249	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will begin my position on the subject of the text. In fact, Minister, I would like to express my personal satisfaction at this step, as a member of the Democratic Alliance, for seeing one after another the parties' leaders - not, of course, the SYRIZA government partner, there divides them a gap - and the Chief of Officerial Response to come here to plenary and come to our talk, to what we said yesterday in committee. Ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, if the Democratic Reconciliation yesterday had not voted for this arrangement, based on our own principles and values, this would not be in plenary today. And little harm will be said of me - a great deal of harm to the substance - about the government problem. We are told that you have no problem with the government! But it's not the purpose of counterpopulation, which we practice in the respective government, to create a problem. The aim is to prevent the country from becoming international laughter again, so that there is no real respect for religious freedoms and to forget in this Chamber, ladies and gentlemen, that we do not see that all patriarchies are on the ground of Muslim countries. The question of the mosque is not just, as some people see it, a question of bilateral Greece - Turkey, but a question, as I said before, greater values and especially religious freedoms. After that, I go to education. Minister, you accused us - the opposition has been arrested - of staying, he says, in the process. But I would like to insist a little on this procedure, because you once said that you are every word of the Constitution. Are you every word of the Constitution, when after one another the laws you bring here to Parliament fall into the Council of State, for reasons of democracy and transparency, as the Council of State told you? I am sorry to hear the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman succeeded and judged. Of course, everyone is judged, but why exactly? That we're turning... [[Noise in the Chamber]] I beg your pardon, Minister, but because I am speaking right now and I hear you and I hear my fellow Members, it is very difficult for me to continue thinking. And because I don't speak text and speak from my thoughts, please warmly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u250	You're right.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u251	So I was saying, ladies and gentlemen, that it is very important for us that democracy and transparency take place in practice. I wanted to ask you, Minister: why, on 10 March, rightly, when the pre-publishment, the recommendation, you could not take it as a given? On 10 March, however, the decision of the Council of State was published. Why would this bill be urgent? I insist, in essence, because I have heard you just before submitting proposals for legislative improvements from our own parties and other parties in the opposition, so that a consensus can be reached. Wouldn't it be much better if we had some more time? I'm going through the Minutes of yesterday's sitting. I want to say something to the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, who spoke of a distorting hierarchical system, smacking all the old systems and the n.3848/2010 system, similar to that of 2007. He said their law, 2015, brought some light to black, why before school principals and school managers were project handlers? Did the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman say that, and I did not hear it well? So, were SYRIZA's rapporteur, Mr Stefos, who was an excellent director, Mr Michael, who spoke a moment ago, also from SYRIZA, who was excellent, judged by this structured interview system and many others, Mrs Xythali, who is from my own constituency, people who were from New Democracy and, of course, people who were from PASOK, but were all there? They were the best in a good system. Can we make it better? Let's fix it. But don't go back, because I'm very afraid that an unrealistic, inconvenience interview would take us there. If, therefore, your intentions are not these and if I have listened well, because I have not seen, Mr Minister, the legislation you have tabled, then I challenge you. I heard Mr. Gabroglou say he'll do it by ministerial decision. But you know very well that if the article of the law does not go into the law itself, this does not bind the Minister of Education. We are therefore asking, not only for the Minister's commitment, that there will be a structured interview on the standards of Law 3848, but we are really asking that there be the corresponding phrase in the article, which predetermins the wishes of the Minister concerned. For the only thing I was pleased to hear Mrs Vakis criticized through Mr Mitafidis' article in the 2007 process, because if you do not do the structured interview, you are going in this process. The same would be, the same. I would therefore like to ask you and to give up this Step of the House to see the arrangement for the interview again, not to be afraid of it, to prove what you want to prove, that you are not a party that wants to have an election client, because so far this is what you have wanted to do. You can't get the Teachers' Association to become a electorate. Its role is elsewhere, deeply essential to school becoming rather than to a school in which there is fear. Because we've drawn up the inspector. We abolished fear in schools. We're not talking about fear in school. But we are talking about an essential role of the Teachers' Association, which, by regulation you bring, will not be constitutional either now. You know very well, Minister, that the reasoned opinion of the Teachers' Association, in order to remove and deviate from the Selection Board, should also be justified. So, in essence again, it involves unconstitutionalism. This is my judgment. This House will judge the way it should be. I therefore reply to the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman: it was not, Mrs Vaki, the good ones, as you said. They were the excellent ones, Mr Stefos and Mr Michalis, excellent colleagues, within them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u252	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u253	No, because Mrs. Vaki said, Mr. Stephen, our system brought...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u254	You should say that...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u255	No, you'll hear it, because you were one of the good guys, you weren't one of the good guys at the then PASOK government.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u256	That's for sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u257	But you have been judged and chosen, Mr Stephos and Mr Michalis, as far as possible, and we are pleased about that, and we are pleased about it, because some steps forward have taken this system. I urge you to force the government to go to the structured interview and introduce phrases to the article that will guarantee...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u258	The Minister said so a moment ago, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u259	He said that about a ministerial decision. Today is Minister Gabroglou and I want to say that he wants to do so. Tomorrow it will be another Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u260	It won't change.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u261	Listen to something. Experiments and lawyers between us are well aware that the regulation must be put into the phrase. I'm ending with the curse of democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, the curse of democracy is that in the student elections fewer students have ever voted, that youth turns back to these processes, student youth in its large majority, which was not in this way in the past. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, a minute of your tolerance, as you have shown the previous ones. The curse of democracy is that in the last two years, not just they have multiplyed, but they have increased exorbitantly all the incidents of violence of all kinds. The National Metsovio Polytechnic. Same in S.H.I.E.E.L.D. Every day there is also an episode of violence. He was threatened with Rector because he asked for the building to be exploited, which was under occupation. It is a curse of democracy that a Minister of Education named a law passed by two hundred fifty MPs, a law that forsaken the selfishness and extroversion of the Greek universities and retained something else, the free movement and asylum of the ideas of research, teaching, but not the illegality, the mercenary and all violations within the AEIs. That's what L.4009 forsakes and you don't like it. This law will remain in history and will come a moment, when we will all understand that national consensus is not just needed to get out of the crisis. We need, first and foremost, to build a system of education, which is extremist, democratic, but also deeply worthwhile, which does not endure excellence, which calls for us to invest in excellence, innovation and extroversion, so that we can, once as a country, go back ahead. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u262	Thank you, Mrs Christophilopoulou. We move on to Mr. Andreas Rizzoulis, SYRIZA MP. Here, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u263	Thank you very much, Mr President. In this Chamber - and this is always the case - it is customary for the Opposition, today by the Chief of Officerial Opposition, to select some words, which, in essence, want to give a signal and mislead the debate on the bill. Today, Mr Mitsotakis said that, with the bill that we bring about the selection of directors, we basically restore antiquity in the selection of directors. So the conclusion we can simply make is that whoever has forty years, becomes director and go further. Is that what the bill says? Will antiquity be the next appeal New Democracy will say about the choice? All we do - and this really is our choice - is to choose the teaching experience and, above all, the teaching experience in class, as a dominant element of the selection of directors. We want the manager to have contact and relationship with the class, because we want the director to have a component of the educational process, and indeed the work done in the classroom. That's our logic. Scientific training on the level of qualifications: it has been said from several aspects - and I think we need to catch these too - that is, if those with a master's or other qualifications, which have to do with management, they must be preceded by teachers, others who have a purely educational direction. The previous one I said shows why we do not choose that, because we want the director of an element of order - that is, the educational process - and the administrative process with knowledge and pre-service in the classroom. So we can't have a difference here in how we deal with the titles. What I want to say again - and I told the committee - is the bad thing we have at school at the moment and we have not solved it. It's not how we collect a lot of papers to be managers. The problem with education is, all this additional knowledge, which exists from people, who are either not managers, how we find a way to make use of it, so that these people feel useful and not only as managers, but also to make use of their knowledge of the problems, but also of the progress of class and teaching in children, young people. Interview and selection process of directors: We have taken Mr. Right here, who was director and since he was director, the previous system was good. The teachers we're in here, we know things. The way we were modulating the interview in the previous period, it was fine to arrange for which schools to be taken, even before the interview was given, since we put the molecules down and the twenty years that we had to become managers and, above all, we were flying out of those that were marginally moving in the system. In fact, a large number of teachers who were qualified, we prevented them from entering the process, because they knew that if they came down - and there are a lot of those teachers who are listening to us, they know that very well - they would not go to the process. The example was given by Mr Stefus, who has become director with his many qualifications. We also have my example of getting off from 2011 and I never went back down, because for the four molecules I would become manager, I ate a beautiful'slaughterhouse' there and I stayed out. I did not want to get into this process again. I am saying these, to give an example and a counterexample. In the opinion of the Association of Teachers, where we had the decision of the TEI, it is said to be the following: "Okay, fine. You put the opinion of the Teachers' Association, it fell out of the CF, but finally, you guys, and what happened? 85% stayed the same. So, what's the point?' So what they did not understand is that we with this amendment did not go ahead with our own people and failed. It was our understanding of participation and democracy. That's why we did it. Obviously, we could increase the interview from 20 where you had, at 40 and put all the symbol directors. We wouldn't make the choice for teachers' clubs to take their minds and risk going at 85%. We knew the result beforehand. I understand very well - and I said this to the committee - why did neither the ILO representative answer nor me when I asked: 'What do you think about the participation of teachers in this process? Tell us your opinion from now on.' I repeat that the Communist Party of Greece today has not answered anything. She's posing islands in this object. From the Communist Party of Greece we want a view on how this process is viewed, even the choice of executives. It's something that's going on. Today - tomorrow it will be. What's he saying? Is the participation of teachers good or not? Is it a step for democracy at school or not? Mrs. Kerameau said we have a two-world conflict. In fact, he has accused us of the way in which we choose to go to selection of executives and that we will produce responsible citizens. I didn't understand that. Can he then explain it to me? But I know that responsible citizens are not produced by participatory and democratic processes, which we want to have in order with students and clubs and above. Straight and fearful citizens are produced, when we apply systems, with which we alienate administration from the commanders, when we apply authoritarian methods. Democratic processes have never produced responsible citizens. I would like to say one last thing that all the SYRIZA Members have said - I think - every time we discuss educational issues, the issue of the abolition of vocational education and the dismissal of teachers in vocational education. The matter now, is not that these people have gone, re-entered, understood what it means and what the government's perception of the public school was at that time. The question, however, now is as follows: That act of the then government also marked their perception of public education. They are now sometimes placed and said by the Opposition and especially by the New Democracy that we want public education. in which the perfect ones will proceed, etc. But the things - and that is what we need to talk about once - show that all they want and what they have in mind is the depreciation and deterioration of public education. It's what they did. They devalued her and degraded her. Fortunately, it was the last big act in a drama that had started in education and ended with SYRIZA's coming to the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u264	Thank you, Mr. Risouli. We are going with the Parliamentary Representative from the Association of Centres, Mr Anastasios Megalomousakas, for six minutes, because your President has also spoken.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u265	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, what is actually going on in the committees, and here today in plenary on the bill, which is being discussed, is a sad thing, annoying and very irritating me. From the first time I entered the Committee on Education and Culture and from the moment I was involved in the process of public debate on education, what I hear is that we want a consultation, a cross-party planning, a programme that will be super-party and in which everyone will contribute, everyone will propose and everyone will be heard, a programme that would be as long-lived as possible. Unfortunately, that's not the case, because you just don't want to. You see it, you know it, and you know it. You must assume your responsibilities. When you bring a bill and vote for it a hundred and fifty-three, it does not declare consensus, it does not declare cooperation. About the choice of your managers we made some suggestions in moleculation. None of the proposals were included. Apart from that, we have made relevant proposals to you, where we are talking about an administrative group of teachers in schools, which was the most relevant bill, which could have been introduced. We don't see anything. You have not even answered the question we asked you two months ago as to whether or not you intend to apply it. For this reason, we cannot agree with you. When you don't take into account us, how do you want us to work together? You are bringing - not you, Minister, but twenty-eight Members - an amendment which, in fact, makes no exception to Article 56 of the memorandum, which you voted on a week ago. This does not mean, under any circumstances, planning and you know it. I've never been up to this step, especially in the field of education, to make a sterile opposition.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u266	It wasn't accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u267	It wasn't accepted. I'm talking about your MPs. You're a team. And it wasn't one, it was twenty-eight. I heard it wasn't accepted. I am here following the plenary and almost all the suggestions from my colleagues. But it does not mean voting for something, defending it, and then a few days later we should come and ask for it not to happen. It's not serious, unfortunately. The attitude of the co-pilots, however, does not state any seriousness. It barely strengthens darkness. If I didn't see who he was talking about, I would say that the speaker who claimed he wouldn't vote on the article on the mosque belongs to a parliamentary group that we don't want him to be in here. Today we are not coming to vote on whether the mosque is to be or not. You know that very well. We must also listen to this: we are coming to see how this mosque will be run. We, as the Central Association, are a progressive party and want what applies to the other European states as well. That's why we can't argue with that. We will not say 'no' in this article. However, you will have to consult with the co-pilots, with your partners. It's a disgrace to Greece! Also, something that lured me from the rapporteur of the New Democracy, in combination with what she said and her Chief, was her objection that representatives on the board would be chosen by the Minister, when the Chief asked for it to be checked, to be supervised by the Ministry and by extension of the state, both in the funds and in the donations and grants. Do we want to check or not? We are in favour of the Minister being appointed, as are other representatives of Muslim religion being elected by the respective government. I can't understand the fact that we're figuring and contradicting. Do we want surveillance? We don't want to have surveillance? Let us be a little clear and not opposition, just to make it. I don't understand what's going on, because even you and the previous ones and those who went up to this step were not clear what they want. What we need to see about our education, in general, the education system and education, is to upgrade it. When we all say here that we value teachers, that they will raise the education system up, that they, in spite of the unfavourable conditions in which our country is situated, are the ones keeping the foundations firm, because there was no provision for them to join the special wage bills too. Now you've brought a Memorandum on the Special Payrolls. Only in words are we going to stay? Let us see a little more globally what is going on in education and what we must do and then at least seriously legislate about this very serious area of education. Because that's where it all starts, the change that you so request will begin. Unless you really don't want it. Heavy is, so we don't fall into snipers. Unfortunately, you have proven that you do not possess it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u268	Thank you, Mr Megloumustakas, Parliamentary Representative of the Union of Centres. We shall now proceed to Mrs Maria Antonio, Member of the New Democracy, for seven minutes. Here, Mrs. Antoniou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u269	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, you are coming today with this bill to actually do one more piece of shit, after you come to correct the mistakes of your own ministers, SYRIZA, and in particular Mr D. 4327, Balta - Kourakis, who, he says, arranged the selection of school managers in a fully anxiocratic manner. It is a law, which was considered unconstitutional by the TBR, which considered it necessary, the administration of school units, to be raised by instruments that operate with merit, impartiality and objectivity and not by secret ballot from the school club, as foreseen by the Balta Act. Another anti-constitutional law, therefore, by the SYRIZA Government - ANEL after the Pappa law, the Polakis Law, the Vernardakis Act, the Gerovasil Skourleti Act, for the contractors and the list of anti-constitutional laws of the government, apparently, will continue. For two and a half years you've been legislating and undone. You bring drafts of papers in hand and written, literally in the leg and then you rush to correct your own mistakes. Do you know what they call it in my village, Mr. Stefos? "Rave, dry up, work not to miss you."
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u270	What did I do to you?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u271	Minister, you've known the decision of the HR for months and left the excuses that you've been supposed to expect its cleansing. You have had at your disposal all the time to launch a genuine and sincere dialogue with the educational community and the federations, in order to come together to a worthwhile and inconsistent system of selecting training officials. Instead, you preferred to take the educational community out of hand and bring the Ministry's second in-line bill, with the urgency procedure and no public consultation, but also with practices that really offend the parliamentary procedure, let alone when they come from the Minister of Education of the country! Before you even filed the bill in the House, you informed the teachers on the Ministry's website about the new molecules system, in fact, to gather the documentation. Subsequently, with your new announcement on the website, you declared that you will withdraw the contested provision for the terms of reference. Minister, do you intend to substitute the Greek Parliament with your Ministry's website? Is the presence of the MPs here decorating to you? Let us now move on to the substance of the bill, a bill which in a few days has accepted the hard criticism of the whole educational community, as we have seen from yesterday's hearing of the institutions, as it includes a large number of problematic arrangements. I will focus on the main of these: First of all, it's rough and fragmentary. It only regulates the selection of school directors and does not include any other arrangements for other management executives, school advisors, training directors, regional managers. Do you not know, Minister, that the decisions of the training directors are also potentially insulting? Do you not know the problem of the dozens of school advisors, who remain vacant due to pensions and repeated extensions you are giving? What is the purpose of this fragmented legalization and choice? Secondly, it introduces a controlled and diagnosed system of selection of directors, which aims at choosing in particular some of your own people. A few of you have left, after all. What quasi-equity are you talking about, Minister, when, before you even vote on the law, you have made sure that the enlarged interview councils are prepared, on the basis of the proposals made by your appointed regional directors and on the sole - you say - a clear criterion for the 15 years? What is the credibility of the interview and of the selection boards, when the majority of their members are chosen by the regional directors, without any merital or even objective selection criterion and without even applying for expressions of interest? Thirdly, you insist on your ideological expression of opinion for the candidate directors from the school club and, indeed, for the permanent, not the alternates. Only permanent teachers can express an opinion. Minister, it seems that, in order to satisfy your party audience, especially after the fiasco of the TEF, you do not care fully, both for the crusade climate that will be created within the clubs, as well as for the practical problems that will arise in one-stop schools or in cases where teachers teach in three or four schools. What, though, today's Minister, Mr Baxvanakis, who, two years ago, was torn his clothes, as rapporteur himself, defending this provision in the Balta-Kourakis Act? What's he gonna say? Will he come to defend the opposite? Oh, shit, you guys! Fourthly, in violation of every logic - although you were now making a fine correction - you did not recognize until a precedent - I did not see the legislators, Mr Minister, to look at them, after they came to us a little while ago - as a teaching service to carry out the tasks of a large category of teachers - we also told the committees - which I think is being punishable, school advisors, environmental education, health education, cultural issues, GLASSENY, all the previous ones, and, as I have seen, you only recognise them two molecules. I want to see, however, first of all, the legal systems to be sure of this issue. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like you to give me a minute, not many speakers yet, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u272	A lot of them are, but I'll give you one.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u273	I take Mr. Augenakis' time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u274	No, no setback. First, Mr. Augias will speak later.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u275	Fifthly, through a series of provisions it reduces the gravity of scientific qualifications, ignores skills that are important, necessary for the manager - and our President said so, I think that IT knowledge in 2017 is necessary - and proposes antiquity, and indeed, unevaluated, as stronger in scientific training and formal qualifications. For you, Mr Minister, it is only the experience that has not been evaluated. Kuveda in the bill for evaluation of the educational project. Your abhorrence to evaluation, dignity and excellence is known. I wonder what you're going to say to younger teachers who have increased formal qualifications and who are likely to want to claim the job? In conclusion, Mr Minister, once again we find that in this bill we are in the same spectators' work. As your predecessors have done, today you are putting your party of purpose above the interests of public education. Introduce a diagnosed and undeclared system of selecting directors, to try to qualify for a little bit of the "local", a system that has already been condemned to the consciousness of all the teachers and do so by the urgency process, to change the agenda for the debate and to turn the attention of the educational community and the whole society, from the fourth memorandum and the five billion meters, which you voted a few days ago and from the critical major problems experienced by the Greek society. Instead, we propose a sincere and substantial dialogue with the educational community, which can lead to the creation of a worthwhile and insecure system for selecting teachers, which will set an example for students. That's the only way we can upgrade the education, without any fruits announcements and sparkle fireworks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u276	Thank you, Mrs. Antonio. The reason is the Deputy Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Mr. Dimitris Baxvanakis, for nine minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u277	Ladies and gentlemen, two years ago, in the spring of 2015, our Government proceeded to a radical democratic division in education. We dared to abolish the party interview. New Democracy and PASOK have been selected managers in schools for decades. with the appointed party service councils and we dared to trust the teachers' opinion. We do this because we consider it to be a much more appropriate body for teachers who co-operate and know the candidate for a school unit to assess the third criterion of qualifications, the general composition and the personality of the candidate. However, the body of fellow teachers is much better suited to assess the ability of the candidate from a selection service council, the way it is formed and, many times, the members of this board have never seen the candidate before, and they must, through a ten-minute interview, create, form and capture, justifiably, an evaluation crisis. So we dared to trust teachers. The Council of State took the view differently. He judged democracy to be unconstitutional. The administration must respect the decision of the Council of State and in the draft law being passed we respect it and legislate at the expense of this decision. However, we can express our opinion. This is a political decision completely wrong, and at the end of the writing, and the judges are judged. However, it is a political choice for the government to express its opinion on teachers. And with the draft law, we are establishing this very thing. It can no longer be quantified, but it will be a criterion which the selection board will take into account, to the extent that it wants to take account of it. It is regrettable that, when the decision of the Council of State was announced, the trade unions of teachers, but also the political parties and political parties, who want to define themselves as a left, were completely vocalised. We are therefore returning from this step the question and want to be answered without any evasion: do the trade unions want to see the opposition parties expressing their opinion? Yes or no? The answer is very simple and our teachers would very much like to hear it. The Government answers to that question 'yes'. However, what opinion of the teachers should the New Democracy trust? Whose teachers? The two and a half thousand who were made available in 2013, when the Minister for Administrative Reform was Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis? Through what structured or non-structured interview were these people evaluated and fired? Through what structured or non-structured interview were thousands of school guards made available? Under the control of which IACC all these procedures were carried out? With what courage does the Chief of Police dare claim to be of interest to him by the atrocities? What punitive process did he take into account during the summer of 2013? The people tell us about the house of the hanged man and the rope. It is good to have it in mind and to be less measurable when we go up to this step, because teachers have a crisis and remember. And we will insist that we remind you of this to you, colleagues of the New Democracy. As much as it's upsetting you, we'll be here to remind you all the time. Mortalities. We know that when a person is appointed as a teacher in public education, he is recruited precisely to be an instructor, he is not recruited to be an official. A mandate shall be raised through certain procedures for a certain term of office. We therefore want the training staff who will take up these tasks to serve education and not to make lifestyles and get a chair, which they consider to be theirs by the time of retirement. We want the renovation of the training staff and we want the instructor, after a certain number of staff seats, to return to the classroom, to go up into school reality. And I will be allowed by those of our fellow teachers who consider going back to the teaching room, going back to the painting and chalk, doing this exercise, returning, as a downgrading or undervaluing of their role, to forgive me very much, but rather they have chosen the wrong profession and should perhaps rethink it. As far as the Teaching Service is concerned, we are trying, through the bill, to say things with their name, to speak the language of truth, and in that we will have the time, the next time, to get together. What does it mean, Teaching Service? In my poor mind, Teaching Service means painting, chalk, room and as the Minister rightly said in his intervention, the teacher's relationship with the student. This thing is the Teaching Service. Are we going to agree, speak honestly, or do we want to mock everyone's ears? Know that there are thousands of teachers who have spent hours and hours in the classrooms, who have never been assigned to other kinds of posts. They have a voice, and they want their voice to be heard, even if it is not as strong as some others. Mr Mitsotakis has accused us of moving on the basis of a year's work, that we are over-simplifying 'antiquity', as he says - we are saying the experience in school reality - and that we are undermining scientific criteria. Really? The New Democracy Law of 2007, for the selection of executives, provided for an antiquity and service situation of twenty-two molecules. For the interview - the interview known - there were twenty molecules. For scientific qualifications, how much do you say? He predicted fourteen molecules. They are the ones who speak in the name of dignity and excellence. The ultimate hypocrites. On the contrary, to us, the interview has been spread, at the lowest rate, which has taken place for thirty years. The interview shall be limited to eight molecules, to a total of thirty one or thirty three. And I repeat, it is the lowest percentage given in the interview by payment of selection systems. As far as the party and the client state are concerned, this is where one can only say 'Look who's talking'. In 2004, when the New Democracy took over the country's rule, what did it do? He took down all the training directors - I don't mean the regional directors, I mean all the training directors, the hundreds of sixteen - and replaced them with a temporary one appointed by the then Minister of New Democracy. And you know these temporary people for how long they were temporary? For three years. So many years our government hasn't shut down yet. Finally, I should like to refer very briefly to Article 4, which refers to the regulations we are doing for vocational training. I would point out that all the wings of the House are voting in favour of this article and we take this as a recognition of the work which is collectively done at the Ministry of Education to upgrade vocational education. However, it is not so important for us to accept from the opposition of this article. The opinion of our teachers in vocational schools is important, with whom we have direct and inmediate contact, from the dozens of professional schools we visit every day throughout Greece. There too, we really see that our teachers are genuinely aware of the serious effort being made, for the first time after decades, to upgrade in practice and support vocational education so as to make it a truly equal choice for children who end up in high school. Our teachers feel this, they see it in practice and understand it, despite the screaming from here and there. And it would be a good thing if these cries would dare be formulated in front of our teachers at a professional high school. I have repeatedly provoked anyone who wants to confront a professional high school and our teachers. In Article 4, therefore, we are perhaps not important, but serious, issues which concern vocational training. In short, I mention that we are giving the right to be enrolled in the class of apprenticeship in the metaly year of graduates in the ESDP who, however, have a diploma in the General High School. We encourage the inclusion in the PSAs and graduates of the lower technical vocational schools. We establish the Preparatory Certification Program for Children ending the apprenticeship program, a 30-five-hour auxiliary program that the school provides a supportive program to enable children to cope with the EPPC exams. We establish the possibility, students, who are rejected, because of insufficient school this year, to be able to repeat the third class of the daily PSAL or the fourth class of the evening due to the change of structure. For once, we give them the opportunity to get a degree in the ESDP. We are allowing the creation of annexes to professional high school islands that do not exist in PES. You know that there are cases of islands where students take the boat every day, take the opposite land, to study at PAAL and in the afternoon they return to their island, and that's what's been happening for three years. We therefore give the opportunity to have EPC annexes to islands that do not have a professional high school. In addition, for travellers to supervise apprentices in the apprenticeship class, we establish the self-evident, that is, that travel expenses may be covered for their travel expenses. Finally, we reject the need to have an IPE agreement on the certification of the curriculum drivers of IEK. It was inconsistency because the EPA is a consultant of the Ministry of Education for primary and secondary education, and therefore its opinion on course drivers relating to post-training was an unforeseen process, and we are therefore removing it. This is done in agreement with the EPA. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u278	Thank you, Deputy Minister Dimitrios Baxvanakis. We shall now proceed to the speakers. Mrs Anna Karamanlis Parliamentary Committee of the New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u279	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, many days have not passed since the Prime Minister attempted to disorientate from the coming memorandum, he presented his supposed plan for education. He promised to abolish the pan-Hellenic examinations, apparently in the same way as he promised to abolish the memorandum. Of course, he didn't say anything about how he would do it, how he would upgrade the school, give authority to his vending room, which universities our children would enter, with which teachers and with which books, and who he would evaluate them. No answer to these questions, because there is simply no plan and the only aim was to make noise. And the government's legislative initiative on education comes up in support of this, following these heavy statements, which confirms that there is neither planning nor specific targeting. Ladies and gentlemen, with the draft law introduced for discussion and vote, the government is coming assimilating to collect uncomfortables and is trying to make up the strong crackdown accepted by the CoR on the law that it brought in 2015 on the selection of school directors. Because it was a law that was incompatible with the sovereignty and equal treatment of candidates. Unfortunately, for the government, it was not her only law that was considered unconstitutional. It has created a negative tradition, you see, as an indication of how the government's colleagues legislate. Once again, then, they give similar samples of writing. You bring the bill under the urgency procedure, without putting it into public consultation and by circumventing democratic and parliamentary procedures. When did you really learn that n.4327/2015 is unconstitutional? Didn't you know for a long time? Because your claim, Minister, that you expected the decision to be cleared up of the JCC could not stand any criticism. And throughout this period, what have you done to restore normality in schools? You've prepared this genogram you're trying to get through. Meanwhile, an unbelievable sewage slap has begun, with parts of the bill being withdrawn or modified, before well. Of course, you are attempting to legislate in your favorite tactics, only for school directors, without proposing a comprehensive solution for all the teachers and leaving the rest of the judgements for the future. You attach particular importance to the teaching tasks of the candidate and the experience, but an experience which has not been evaluated and at the same time reduces the importance of scientific qualifications. In this sense of the year, the oldest teachers are most evidently favoured at the expense of those who are qualified and fewer years of service. At the same time, mobilisation of other qualifications, such as training, is degraded. So, what's the message you're sending out to the young teachers? Do not try to improve their adequacy, but just wait happily for the years to pass and their turn will come. You are equal in their efforts to train and train. The word'rets' of excellence does not deny it by any means. But also the way you define the teaching experience has caused an incredible and generalized inconvenience to the teaching classes, highlighting the curiosity accompanying the bill under discussion. We have all received the MPs in the past few days a storm of protest messages from teachers, whose service is not considered to be teaching. I am referring to a number of categories: the school advisors, for whom provision is made for their work to be not linked to a teaching service, contrary to what was the case with the institution's recommendation, the cultural, environmental, health education, teachers from the consultancy offices, from school guidance offices. It is clear that a portion of teachers was surprised by this provision, because based on current legislation, they made specific professional choices and knew that their term of office in these posts was recognised as teaching experience. You tabled a piece of legislation a little while ago. You give them some crumbs, unlike what your previous law predicted. At the same time, however, in order to obviously attract some 'local', it was not considered necessary for candidates to receive basic informatics training. So an instructor, who doesn't know how to open the computer, can be chosen as a manager in the Greek school of 2017 and run administrative tasks. We will of course all agree that you do not also call this a vision of education. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, because you are obviously anxious not to displease the party audience - several bitters, after all, you have given it last at all levels - you are trying to reinnovate as an innovation and as a reform of the participation of the school club, this time in a second role with the expression of an opinion, which will not be measured in mobilisation of the candidate. But we can safely assume that it will be used as a lever of pressure or to justify and legitimise managers' choices when needed. The sure thing is that it can lead to the division of school staff, the creation of ruptured mechanisms, and ultimately the phenomenon of rehabism and bias. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] I will close with the selection councils, which will also carry out the candidates' interviews, an institution which is afflicted and sinful, as the Minister told us in the committee. However, if some have in the past been afflicted by the institution of the interview, the current government is really malicious. I am referring to the unambiguous way in which the boards are formed. I ask you: will those appointed to the boards be placed on objective criteria? If that's the case, tell us these criteria too, because we don't see them anywhere and we don't know if they exist. What we know is that the majority of their members will be appointed party regional director. So I don't think anyone would doubt their party identity. The other thing we also know is that you are placing from the window as chairmen of the boards the training directors, elected by school directors, a electorate that was judged to be unconstitutional. Where does all this lead? To be ultimately deprived of these councils of any prestige and credibility. It is hypocritical, therefore, to criticise the previous ones, when your methods show that you are seeking full control of the administration of education and treating the public as a party spoil. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, in the New Democracy, we believe that this bill is aimed at against merit, and it is against the teacher who is not resurrected, who is struggling to increase his qualifications, who is lurking to evolve and improve. That is to say, it is against the institution which is responsible for giving our children knowledge, values and principles. At least respect the dreams of these children and their families and leave education outside your political artifacts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u280	The Parliamentary spokesman from Potami, Mr Dannelis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u281	Mr President, may I have the floor to make a legal improvement?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u282	Mr. Dannelly, until you come to Stepma, we will give the floor to the Minister to make some legislative improvements. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u283	Legislative work has to do with Article 5(2) of the bill and has to do with the funding of the mosque. We're withdrawing the entire article. So what is now the case is the law of Mrs Giannakou and I appeal to the parties: we will take the initiative to find a common wording on the matter of funding. Obviously, the mosque will be able to be financed through state funds and any more complex form of cooperation that we are going to make.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u284	Minister, I repeat it so that it can be heard well in the Chamber but also for those who are watching us. The essence is that Article 5 of the bill is withdrawn...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u285	No, paragraph 2 of Article 5.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u286	Obviously, so there are no misunderstandings, because it didn't sound well. Feel like me. So you're withdrawing paragraph 2 of Article 5. He will share with the Members to take it into account.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u287	You're right. Mr President, something quite typical. Amendment No 1044 was an amendment to regulate private education issues and it has not been formally accepted and the reason why it has not been accepted is that it expresses an intention, which we also underlined in a press release, which we posted to the Ministry of Education a short time ago. I just wanted to make it clear. It has something to do with it already.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u288	It's true.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u289	That is why this amendment is not accepted. Amendment No 1044 cannot be accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u290	But its contents are obvious that it is true.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u291	Good. Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr Dannelis, a Parliamentary representative from Potami, has the floor. Mr. Danielle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u292	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that the government's optimism for the results of the Eurogroup has not been successful. Sadly, of course, for everyone. The reality once again was different from the one he appreciated. What does that say to us? That we're producing a lot more noise than we're allowed to. There are moments when more thought, more action, and less speech, less public position. The Government must understand that the continued public statements of government officials, especially when they are in conflict with each other, increase the problems and ultimately bring them into a more difficult position. We are at an extremely central point for the country where there must be realism, openness, awareness, but also an effort to reach agreement between us. The aim is a national one, so it can only be a single one. The government must finally understand that it is necessary to set up conditions for regaining confidence, which has been completely lost. The Prime Minister recently, but also a few days ago, asked the ministers to speed up their government work, because everyday life is multiplying the problems that run independently of any negotiation. It is not possible to wait a cruise ship of a scheduled visit to Piraeus two hours arrow until the tug and pilot arrive. And that's just the day before yesterday. We cannot expect an increase in our revenue from the cruise, in this case, when the cruise ships wait two hours, they wait outside of the port to tie to Piraeus and for a few hours to move, at the same time as Piraeus, as the main home port of the Mediterranean. We do not have the luxury of constantly forming an increasingly pro-investing climate. While there is such a need for investment in our economy in 2016, we saw that only eight serious investments are made in the country, because beyond the large, such as the closure of the rating, the debt settlement, our integration into the QE, there are all the theoretically smaller, but all that has to be done to attract ourselves instead of dismissing the investments. For many times, I would repeat that if the debt settlement is a necessary condition for the exit from the crisis, the production of national wealth makes the treaty possible. Now, of course, what development are we talking about, when the Council of State comes to call on the State to inform it within a six-month timeframe and concrete measures to complete the forest maps so that the register does not blow up in the air? I was a young man and said that only Greece and Albania are deprived of a Land register in Europe. Today, the only sad uniqueness is us. In our bill now. A bill that is not discussed in vacant but under the sad shadow of yesterday's unprecedented violence in our Higher Education Institutions, in the course of the student elections. The obsessive, old-left ideals, about so-called university asylum, prosecute freedom of thought and expression from its dormitory. That's what we've achieved. Legislation that regulates major issues and change educational everyday life when discussing haste, fragmentation, without adequate consultation, without constructive discussion, is being translated. Why do they talk about the same thing again? Because the Council of State considered the previous law unconstitutional. In other words, the way in which you chose the teachers was out of legality. I would remind you that the 2015 Balta-Kourakis bill on the same issues was discussed in the urgent procedure. At that time, I said from the same Step on the election of directors in primary and secondary education "Where did you see the existing heads elect and the system functioning?". The manager must be above. To have knowledge and administrative skills and physical authority that derives from them alone. Stay away from dependencies and work. A good manager is not necessarily the most popular. See around you in the public, but also in the private sector, where managers are chosen to be highly qualified. After evaluation and not after the judgment of their colleagues because of the maps they would have been made, the system goes a clock. Instead of strengthening the security controls of objectivity in the judgement of directors, the unscrupulous allergy in which the assessment leads to the risk of selecting incompetent managers and the disastrous fragmentation of the harmony and compassion of the teachers union. While the left trade unionists of the earlier era were constantly shouting for qualifications, the blocking of the Paleo-Paleso trade union puts forward - and other priorities, I said at that time. Because inappropriate recipe of decline and failure are anxiety. These were on May 11, 2015. Today, even if it is not in your intentions, Minister - and I am quite sure that it is not - you are, unfortunately, the party to education, because today you are and you are guaranteeing some things, but tomorrow, you will be fatally someone else in your place and, of course, only the rules and institutions are the ones that ensure and not personal will. In the context of democratic legitimacy, teachers' associations are involved in this process. While defending their participation, you allow their view of tooling, sometimes, to serve party choices. In other words, the assessments of the school club can be considered and can only, whenever it suits and legalises preconceived decisions, by those who then participate. And if two of the seven members of the committees are trade unionists, the temptations are, of course, multiplied. The second reason why we feel it is not a success to correct the previous provision is the reintroduction of the interview. Initially you abolished the interview with Law 3848/2010, on the Minister of Diamantopoulou at the time, considering the choice tool of party virtue. Today, you do not reinstate that structure, based on European standards, interview. The term'structured', of course, is interpreted and I think it is very right to accept you for further consultation, for how these rules can be defined in the ministerial decision. But again, I say that we do not know what will be your opinion, the intention and the procedure followed by a next Minister. And, of course, a ministerial decision changes very easily. The question is what legislation provides for. Of course, we have all experienced - and we have poorly forgotten - the working part that interviews played as a clear tool for party intervention. Let me remind you that the state was smuggled in the five years 2004 to 2009 - and not just in education - precisely from the logic of the famous interview in every evaluation. Without clear rules, without clear predictions and descriptions in law, we cannot accept a good intention from those who will use the interview. The third reason for our objection is that the committee judged by the new directors will actually be less qualified than the candidates. And, of course, we need to agree on the hierarchy of qualifications. Scientific pedagogical formation in the overall score now has much less weight. We're talking about almost half the molecules of Law 3848/2010. I agree with you, Minister, that it is not necessary for a good scientist to be as well as a good teacher. In this respect, of course, this experience is a key part of its administrative obligation and implementation of what it should follow and of the decisions it should take. But in other ways, and with other security controls, we can promote the most worthy and most skilled and not just the experience in general and indefinitely, because the good teacher, the good teacher, is not the one who has many years of service in his class, it is the quality of his relationship with his work and his class. I think that minor - I say, however, because it has not been mentioned - is that you should see the provision concerning the teaching service, because it is also unfair and surprises some of the workers at school guidance offices, at the offices of association with the labour market and professional guidance offices, and at the centres of counselling and guidance that are not taken as a teaching service and their employment in the above, as inversely it is demonstrated from the timetable of the schools which were in service or were seconded by a decision of the relevant PES. The exclusion of computer teachers has already been mentioned by my colleague, Mr Mavrotas, and I shall not go into it. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately the choice of training staff historically in our country has turned into a party tool of the ruling party, with everything that implies for our educational system and its quality. However, this is not an alibi to the left-wing government. The crisis and the new global economic reality force us to change an example. This is a country's survival move. The investment in the knowledge economy, a forced choice for Greece, requires that managers be selected in education with absolutely merit and nothing more. The management of school units is necessary to pass into the hands of people capable, with vision and in particular with knowledge, because this alone will ensure a public school offering quality education students and allowing social mobility through genuine equal opportunities. I shall conclude, Mr President, with Article 5 on the Attica mosque. As much as we disagree with some of your individual options in relation to the establishment of the board of directors or some operational provisions, we consider what you told us very positive just now. We consider it very positive that paragraph 2 should be re-drafted on the resources of funding and public control. This provision is very positive and we fully agree. However, although we disagree with some of the individual operations, the building and operation of the mosque exceeds our objections. For us, it is a question of principle that is not offered for cheap political impression. Potami since its establishment is the political body for expressing the principles of political liberalism, without asterisks and without discounts. And we've proved it at all critical times. With our vote it was based on the overthrow of taboos that haunted Greek society and intimidated politicians and the political system. What it had to do with defending human rights and the citizen was always supported, unreservedly by the Potami. The same is happening now. The same will happen in the future. Even when parties, beyond the well-known right-wing or non-neutral parties, took their tail out when we discussed and voted critical forecasts in relation to rights. In Greece, there has been a law on the building of the mosque since 1934. Since then many laws, ministerial decisions and plans have been adopted, but the Muslims still meet their adorable needs in most - take note - of a hundred atypical mosques operating in Attica, creating problems of many classes, which are neither the moment nor the place to talk about them. What hypocrisy does it take to bring us to 2017, without a mosque in Attica? From 1934 to 2017 many and varied governments passed and certainly there is no mosque yet. We, without reservations, say 'yes' and today in the relevant article. We say 'yes' without reservations, because we believe that the right to expression religiousity cannot and must not be the subject of political games. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u293	Thank you, Mr. Dannelly. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how it operates, forty-five students and students and five educational attendants from the Elementary School of Evxinoupoli Magnesia. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Tibetan Nikolaos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u294	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I will not avoid the temptation to comment on another bad speech by Mr Mitsotakis this morning, a speech taken out of the drawers of the past: cosmopolitans, mammothry, which I have heard as both a citizen and as an educator for forty years. Objectively, the following questions are raised in every human being: What has happened for forty years? Didn't you have the budget for education for for forty years in the last place in the countries of the European Union? Didn't you downgrade the functioning of the public school, directing thousands of families to the financial bleeding of the schools? Didn't you actually dismantle high school, making it prepared for the pan-Hellenic exams? Didn't you feed rushphetti and composting in the education administration? Didn't you fire two and a half thousand teachers, sending twenty thousand ESDP students to despair? So I don't understand what you're talking about. That is right, Mrs Christophilopoulou has identified the issue of abstention in the student elections and the depreciation of youth in the political system in general. But let's go back a little bit. In high school and high school, what must be done to act socially, politically, culturally? With that logic that exists so far, can we inspire students? I'm sick of listening to this fascinating expression of critical knowledge. He's become a slogan, a joke through the students. How? With a manager? With a team of teachers, bureaucrats, programme handlers that have teachers in the year 2014 mark the material page? Do you know this, colleagues? By disciplinary sentences if they don't? That training we want? Is that the club we want? Because, let me, without any criticism, many of you ignore the current reality of school. That's the reality. What do we say very simply? What measures do we have to take so that, first of all, we can upgrade the role of the club? Because at the moment, and with the logic of giving particular weight to the teaching work, the director of a school has a major educational role to play. You can't run teachers if you don't have an educational experience. The needs of the school are such that they require a manager with great educational experience, because he is the one who can manage critical times and not just give orders how to pass the tabs or how to check "myschool". That can be done by anyone. He has responsibility for how to manage the critical moment in the class, in the school. What happened until 2015 on the basis of this invisible anti-constitutional law passed in the summer of 2015? What happened before? Was there the directors with the structured interview, as very imaginatively sounds? What do you think happened then? It was so well-built that interviews had already been shared in schools, colleagues. This is something we all know about Jerusalem. The seats were shared. So well-structured were interviews. Is that what you want it to be today? Oh, no. We need to talk seriously, but on a base. On what basis? That the educational association should have an opinion on the administration process. School's not an IKA service. Let's figure that out at last. Is there a different perception? He's respected. But school isn't IKA. I come to an issue that was identified. Mrs. Kerameau said we want the worthy and not the popular ones. I'm sorry, eight out of ten directors aren't friends with SYRIZA. So what is it? Are the populars and the scumbags? Go tell them. You can't insult the teacher that way. It's an insult. He's ignorant. I come to a final point concerning terms of terms. Listen, ladies and gentlemen, the two terms of reference, in my opinion, are a good measure for education. They say, "But someone went two terms and made the school." He did very well. That's why he was elected manager to build the school. He won't take it home. Let's go to another school. Do you know that in order for someone to become a young man, a 40-year-old runner, he must wait when the colleague is going to be retired? That's the reality in schools. Do you know her? So why not give these opportunities? So why does the other guy have to be retired as director? What logic and what condition does that mean? Let's take care of it. Let's talk about it. It is an open matter, which I think we should be concerned with in the field of education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u295	Mr Dimitrios Emmanoulidis, Member of the SYRIZA, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u296	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, since Mrs Kerameos' position, I have retained the emergence of the three "A" as the top target of the educational vision of the New Democracy: Evaluation - Excellence - autonomy. The famous "Three Alpha SA" reminded me. You went, Mrs. Kerameau, for wool, and you went out squeezed. And I'm explaining. For the first ‘A’ evaluation. False memory inspectors were chosen by sovereign, if not unique, to occupy the management positions with the certificate of national physics and in addition to the intervention role of religious organisations. This happened up to the first years of postpopulation. It then followed the participatory model with the decisive role of the interview as the key criterion for meeting management positions. The interview, ladies and gentlemen, was a gamble with a marked deck. The later interested party, the later in the measurable objective molecules, was able through the inspiring interview to exterminate his greater vigilances. And "the last were first" to verify, by means of the evangelical expression, the unbearable violation of every sense of sovereignty. We're going to the second "A", excellence. You have, ladies and gentlemen, misinterpreted the concept of excellence. Excellence in the field of education is not an area of inconsistent competition that undermines the mental and social equilibrium of young souls. For us, education is the social function that has an essential goal of realising, shaping made personalities with the main feature of liberty, giving the individual spiritual culture, social sensitivity, consciousness of social responsibility, and ultimately leading to the integrity of myself. For us excellence in education must have the above characteristics, and that is why we are only trying to do so. Answer yourself first if the conception of excellence is far from the goals we have set as a project of education. And I come to third "A", autonomy. For what autonomy do you dare to speak when you stubbornly refuse to accept the essential role of the association of teachers throughout the training process. When you have not dared to object to the unheard of decision of the S.H.I.E.L.D. This has led to the appalling deterioration of the professedly important role of the school club. In view of the position of the Minister and the Minister of State in discussing the bill in the committee responsible, I have recorded their anxiety and concern about where education is going. Unfortunately, the opposition was unable to monitor this anxiety and finally go along with the real effort to give content and perspective to the functioning of education. Of course, this bill relates to an interesting piece - I would say not important, but certainly interesting - to the educational process and to the election of school managers. The point is that we were called through a completely unjustified decision of the S.H.E.L.D. to return to an issue that emerged and its solution was absolutely urgent and necessary, hence the urgency of the draft law. There, then, we see from the Ministry's side, in fact, anxiously seeking solutions, giving a perspective of functionality to this painful process. As we know very well, when we have a selection procedure, it in itself involves the question and there is no possibility for all parties to accept it fully. It's - I used to say - a competitive process of the circle. Nevertheless, we have sought solutions through an agonizing effort and, above all, from tabling clean intentions. We'll see who these are. First of all, we accept that the interview is a process acceptable to all systems and to the entire length and width of the world. However, we are talking about an interview that does not have the features of a marked deck, but rather an essential process to demonstrate the individuality of the person assessed. We then come to the second element. Of course, it can be said that the quote of titles cannot be cancelled and has nothing to do with questioning excellence, which is evidently and maliciously highlighted by the Opposition. Personally, I respect all this effort of colleagues who have raised titles through an effort of life. But it is another thing to quote titles and another thing is the function of the teacher in the classroom. There many times all this theoretical chariot is cancelled, because in the final analysis teaching requires talent, it requires a little bit. It is a life function and function, which you either have through an effort to improve or look for other roads to spend the time of the service path, and I mean - without that having any element of feasibility - other management positions in parallel functions of the educational system. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr President, I would like your tolerance. However, "teacher" is judged within the sacred space of order. This thing is being served in this respect in our effort to finally show what he wanted, blindly, to cancel the S.H.E. And that's to give the teacher faith. I do not judge it for its properness, but I judge it for its undermining dimension and its undermining effect, because it does precisely that faith to the true teacher, and that, in any case, will be charged to the C.E.... It is also important that the European Parliament and the Council should be involved in the work of the European Parliament. For the individual articles of the bill, a detailed report was made by colleagues. In conclusion, I would like to point out the Ministry's intention to accept better proposals put forward by the opposition parties, and this is a statement of our intention to address the issues of education with a sincere, consensual perception. And that happens for only one reason: because we are accountable to the generations that come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u297	Mr. Excellency Georgios from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u298	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, since the announcement of the bill under discussion, the New Democracy began to manifest an aggression, one would say, disproportionate to the gravity of the matter. We understand the need for this. You have always failed in your predictions, ladies and gentlemen of counter-population. You had invested a lot in the left parentheses scenario and didn't come out. So you must continue the war at all costs in order to reach your goal, which is no more than the resignation of this government. Push to exploit any theme would contribute to small-party benefits and do so with fanaticism and cheap party patriotism. This time you have chosen education, and in particular the bill for selecting school managers. All your own governments and PASOK have been dealing with this several times. Who are you trying to cheat? The educational world has lived on its side. He is well aware of your good methods, favors and favors to your electoral clientele. But it's time to talk seriously now. Bad lies, no selection system is impeccable, no system is ideal for not being critical. For example, should the formal scientific qualifications of candidates be given greater importance in the context of mobilisation, or should pre-service and experience be given greater weight? In these questions there is no correct and wrong answer. I think that many of the issues relating to measurable criteria have also been resolved by the Minister. The plea alleging successive political leaderships of the Ministry of Education, as well as the various reactions of the educational community's stakeholders, is the way to assess the third criterion, namely the contribution to the educational work of the candidates. Before I refer to the draft legislation under discussion, I would like to make two points on the previous institutional framework, the recent institutional framework for selecting directors. The Balta - Kourakis Act, Law No.4325/2015, which was subsequently considered unconstitutional by the Council of State, was as follows: It abolished the interview, which is actually used at many levels both in Europe and here for the promotion of executives. So what did Mr.4325/2015 provide for? By abolishing the interview for selecting managers in school units, the legislator wanted to minimize the disastrous effects of our chronic social and political passions on the choice of those that would lead. Is there anyone here who disputes that the interview has become the customer network service vehicle, the tool for party decommissioning of the administration in education and that it has led to the violation of objectivity and merit? Is there anyone here who does not know that for too many years managers and managers have become the chosen and selected party mechanisms with prefabricated and preconceived choices? The second point for the Balta - Kourakis law is that by recognising the decisive role of the club of teachers in selecting managers, the law sought to show management positions of people who would have a good witness, who would have the appreciation of their colleagues. The performance of a key role in the school club reflected the desire of the legislator to strengthen the role of the school community, strengthen the spirit of democratic functioning and a system of central education to introduce elements of self-government and autonomy. It is true, and we have to accept it, that various problems have arisen in its implementation, although the corresponding procedure for the Vice-Presidents is exemplary. But here I must stress that 85% of the previous crises have been selected by the same directors and not our own children, as the New Democracy clearly points out. And they know who became managers in the previous crises. If I referred briefly to the Balta-Kourakis Act, it was to enlighten the spirit of that legislation and which is present in the bill under discussion, with the necessary improvements and adjustments that have arisen, not only because of the decision of the St.E., but also thanks to the experience of the implementation of that law. And the reintroduction of the interview by the regional councils concerned with their extended seven-member composition, as well as the maintenance of the role of the teachers' club, even not in a binding form, as before, but with consultative power, is a major responsibility. They shall be as balanced as possible, with a view to achieving the best possible solution to the present social and cultural conditions. We are reintroducing the interview by protecting the institution. We are reintroducing it, but with such molecules that it will not lead to overthrowing the molecules that have been achieved by the candidates in the first two criteria. With regard to the role of teachers, you, ladies and gentlemen of the Opposition, and especially of the New Democracy, why do you not give us a clear answer to the key question: Do you want or do you want to take into account the view expressed by the Teaching Association for Candidates? Avoid diligently taking place in all discussions. You cannot say 'yes' in this regard, because you despise the participation of those in the decision-makers. You cannot say 'no', because that would expose you as it would reveal naked - whole - your authoritarian concept of education. Finally, let me refer briefly to Article 5 on the creation of the Muslim mosque and make an amendment in line with the general administrative data. Ladies and gentlemen, we are aware that Greece is now a hog in Europe when it comes to guaranteeing the right of the living in the country to worship God in which they believe. We are aware that the international image of the country is being annulled because of the absence of places of worship for Muslims. Greece, ladies and gentlemen, has signed the entire international institutional framework for freedom of religious conscience and unworthy religion. There must not be residents of the country - whether they are Greek citizens, refugees and immigrants or even visitors - who are confined to their adoring events. And to broaden it - on the occasion of today's debate - and because of the relevant issues relating to human rights and individual freedoms, we have also moved in this direction with the recent submission of a question about the creation of a Muslim cemetery.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u299	Finish, Mr. Excellency, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u300	I shall conclude, Mr President. And it is also imperative that it is time to discuss again, with an open mind on all sides, and with the desire to reach concrete regulations at last, the question of the incineration of the bodies of the citizens of those who do not want burial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u301	Mr Stylis Georgios has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u302	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the issues of education are not offered for barren controversy and cheap culturalism. It's about the future of the place, our children. I'll try to be as mild as I can. Two and a half years of governance of SYRIZA - ANEL in the Ministry of Education have changed three Ministers for Education. I am not going to go into personal assessments, because I think everyone had the best intentions. But the Prime Minister's assessment showed that they could not continue and accomplish their work. They are exposed to Greek citizens to evaluate what has happened. Minister, I would like you to say something about which you are pleased, perhaps proud as SYRIZA - ANEL government in total, some of your policies that citizens will mention in the coming years, which would justify passing through the Ministry of Education of all these leaders in the previous years. Legislation on drafts, legislative initiatives, amendments, without beginning, middle and end, allied political interventions without substance, moves of impression, great declarations of empty content, heterosy based on what has happened in the past and what the New Democracy says. Ladies and gentlemen, let us remember the works and days of the SYRIZA Government - ANEL at the Ministry of Education: You have reduced the hours of teaching in primary and secondary schools, which you know very well that this has led to the reduction of the secondary and secondary teachers and teachers. You changed the whole day’s school, actually by microwaveing it, thus hitting the small family made up of workers. Repeat the third and fourth assignments to many schools. You close schools in mountainous and remote areas. Close the Annexes to the mountains and islands, where there are few children, few students. This is the result of your governance. You abolished standard schools. You abolished the evaluation. You detained private schools. You'd have done that too if you could. Restore eternal students and abolish pan-Hellenics. You don't know how and when this is going to happen, but nonetheless, you make a great proclamation. So let us come to today's bill, ladies and gentlemen. It really makes me very surprised that you are legislating without real dialogue, without information. You - and I speak as a whole for the SYRIZA and ANEL political area - all these years - as far as I remember during my presence in public life - were always in favour of dialogue, transparent supporters of dialogue. Extreme dialogue about everything, about nothing at all. And now that you have become our government, you have shaken down the urgency and urgency process. You are bringing a bill to a vote without having put it in consultation, as defined in the Constitution and the Rules of Parliament. While you have known the decision of the Council of State for a long time, you have not discussed the legitimately elected representatives of teachers. You have not put it in public consultation to see what needs to be changed and what to change. You have done nothing of this, perhaps because your dialogue is causing you allergy when you are in the government. I suppose you'll remember him when you come to the opposition. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill that is being discussed today in plenary is not governed by one - if I may say it - a central idea, from a conception of where you want to go. It is not governed by a philosophy of correcting the pathogens of the past and what pathogens of the past we are correcting. Today we are voting on a modest bill, a complex of articles, decisions to serve client microsciences. In no case is the bill a concrete overall solution. In no case is it a reformist. It does not contain solutions. In no case does what we are voting on apply anywhere else in the world. Tell us where else it applies. Why do you need to rediscover America? Why don't you take best practices in other countries. Whatever positive is to adopt. Why do you have to start every time? Minister, the government has a problem with the evaluation, you and the majority of your political space. It doesn't explain any differently. There's nowhere in the bill, the word "assessment" and its meaning. You leave a margin, of course, by valuing or by self-assessing or in various other ways. But you are exposed to teachers. One hundred and fifty thousand permanent teachers today teach in public schools, primary, secondary and post-training. You are exposed to them because you have declared before that you are against evaluation and now either as an "evaluation" or as otherwise or in the sense of self-assessment - which you are not saying, you are ashamed to say it - you are going to bring it and apply it. I would like to ask myself about this bill and, in particular, Article 1 on school directors, for which there has been so much discussion. Do you know how many schools we have in the country? In the country there are fifteen thousand school units, fifteen thousand teacher directors will be elected according to the provisions of this bill here. And I ask you: why did you not bring a comprehensive solution to the problem of training managers in local areas, but you only regulate the issue for school units. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'd like a minute, Mr. President. Why don't you bring a solution for training consultants too? Why are you coming apart? Why don't you bring in a proposal for regional training directors as well? That's where you've been back for decades. Once you took over the government, you did not set your own criteria - let us put your own criteria, let us choose your own, those who have the party identity of SYRIZA, but let you choose the best - but you said "no criterion, no condition, no condition, we want specific, we place regional directors those who have the hard party identity of SYRIZA" and nothing else. No more qualification counted for you. But then you were at the skateboard of the negotiation. We were in the Baroufakis era. Of course, then, we have lived through the vote and again the vote. With this bill - I put it down and finish - when the training directors have been elected by the law which is unconstitutional and participate in the selection boards, judged by the school directors, will we have a law against which they will also be judged unconstitutional? Have you taken that into consideration?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u303	Mr. Style, finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u304	If you brought a comprehensive solution, we would have avoided it not for your own sake, but for the sake of our children, for the sake of schools, for the sake of education, for the sake of education. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that there is no proposal from SYRIZA for education and education. We believe in meritism, we believe in evaluation, we believe in self-assessment - he spoke, our President said before today - and very soon another government will be the one taking the country forward rather than backwards. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u305	Mr Emmanuel Konsolas has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u306	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Minister, ladies and gentlemen, education is not an area of party planning and purpose nor a field of party controversy, which has also been made clear by our rapporteur, Mrs Kerameos, but above all by Mr Stylian. But it is difficult to understand a government that, in order for it to stay in power one day, legislates with every project, without any hesitation, even if it scans everything and has not established in its culture the principle of the continuity of the state. Government policy leads Greek citizens and future generations to a trap of a memorial without end, to an endless austerity with constant overtaxation and undermining every development perspective. Mr. Tsipras himself set up the trap in which he set the country and mainly in this perspective, leading it to beastly primary surpluses. Before losing the opportunity to put a tie, he had already lost the people's confidence, but also the minimum credibility that he has still left in the government. The government continues to improvise even issues that are not allowed improvisations and manipulations, such as education. There is a huge lack of seriousness, and this is also demonstrated by the current project brought to the vote by the government in the House. The Prime Minister announced, as we have all heard, the abolition of the pan-Hellenic tests. Literally of the air, without a plan. He does not realize that he cannot play with the hopes and anguish of thousands of children. It does not understand, too, that it is not in the times of the 1990s conquests when it could say what it wants, wherever it wants, and that there is no consequence. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, have you realised that there are students who are preparing for their entry into universities, having as constant a specific import system? Ladies and gentlemen, have you realised that such announcements require a study, a plan and a smooth transition? Ladies and gentlemen, the government has brought to nothing but five and, in the urgency procedure, a bill regulating issues relating to the selection of training staff. Why, though, is that so? For quite simply, ladies and gentlemen, the government once again listens to the limits of constitutionality, such as every time a legislative initiative is taken. That's the way it happened with the famous Balta Law. You remember what happened here in the committees and the National Representation for the selection of training officials, which was considered unconstitutional by the Council of State. The government did not learn from this parameter. Mr Pappa's law was also unconstitutional, as was also seen as unconstitutional and Mr Skourletis's law on OTA contractors, but the government continues. Minister, you probably do not want to know how to learn - a basic assumption of learning - and since then we have warned you and now we are calling on you to withdraw these parameters which all my fellow Members have set before, because you can be sure that it will now be considered unconstitutional. It is an attempt by the government to restore partyism to education. That's what happened in the past period, that's what's happening now. And while you know that there was a gap following the crisis of the Council of State which considered the law unconstitutional, you deliberately neither consulted and now the new framework with private operators nor tabled a legislative proposal in good time in order to have a public debate. Have you asked the partners and the people who haunt a framework of commitments to education, as the scientific and trade union movement, universities, educational bodies and the educational community has submitted over time? Oh, no. You are now coming and bringing in a bill with the urgent procedure with the same objective, party control, the regularization of political friends and the payment of letters. That's the truth. The bill is limited to selecting directors for education, only to school directors. A glance at the provisions which are reflected in all the ideas and practices of the government, finds that the Government is deeply obsessed with what it had announced in the election, that is to say the intention of abolishing any concept of evaluation, excellence and merit, which our rapporteur has also confirmed in its position. Once again we find that the government's known allergy to these three concepts is primarily the cause of this bill. In addition, the Government annulled the assessment procedure based on Presidential Decree 152/2013 as a criterion for the selection of training directors and managers. Scientific qualifications, covering more than 45%, i.e. about 1/3 of all qualifications, in the next bill, now, you're almost flattened. We are, in fact, pretty sure that in the next bill you will table, you will abolish and what is left with qualifications. A teacher's parchments in the field of continuing training are not evaluated as capable of mobilising, when we all know how important continuing training is for a teacher. Some teachers have done research, have worked on their research. Already in postgraduates and doctors have published, they have participated in conferences - national and international - and have written work. They are literally devastated, thus leveling up every prospect of dignity and worthyness. Maybe all they don't have is the party identity to assess them positively. For the first time, we also have the paradox not to be included in the criteria for moleculation of information technology and technology. That's how we build, Minister, the digital school? Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to refer to the school directors' selection boards. How do these make up? They are established by a decision of the appointed regional director, who will be submitted to some directions or who will appoint these councils as appropriate. There is no objective selection criterion, no independent and unequivocal procedure for selecting these selection councils. Obviously, the Government's intention that the selection boards should function in this way is also the original provision for the submission of statements of preference for schools, before the lists of moleculosis were posted and not then, as was the case to date. Where else is this happening, as Mr. Stylus said? What international practice? [[At this point, the ending bell of the Member's time is ringing.]] I think there will be issues of unconstitutionality in this bill. I will mention, for example, the compulsory removal of a teacher who has completed two terms of office as director at a school. With what logic? What will happen in island areas, in isolated mountain areas, where there are no other teachers? Mr President, I shall close with a brief reference to the Islamic mosque of Athens. It is a matter of respect, ladies and gentlemen, by us, at least, from the New Democracy, for the concept of religious freedom. This is the foundation of Western civilization and democracy. However, special attention needs to be paid to the functioning of these sites in the sense of controlling illegal activities, but also of altering the character of religious space in the area of proselytisation and the undermining of phenomena of violence and terrorism. The European experience shows that some of these sites in European cities have become exactly what we do not want to live on. We live in a world where there are asymmetric threats and perceptions that threaten our western civilization and our way of life, concepts that show no tolerance to religious freedom. That is why we cannot and should not be indifferent to the risks. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u307	Mr Theodoros Papatheodorou has the floor from the Democratic Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u308	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, it is assumed that in the draft law under discussion you were forced to correct sinners, following the relevant decision of the Council of State which declared unconstitutional a number of fundamental provisions of Law4327/2015 on the selection of school directors. But, Minister, what we can see is that your folding was only formal, since with the new draft law you are trying to recheck the procedures so that school managers can become not those who are truly competent and qualified, but those who are in the circle of influence of a party client. See, ladies and gentlemen, something unprecedented in the education policy of each European country, any European country, but also of any advanced country. The Government proposes a draft law for the selection of school managers in the absence of any form of evaluation. Training managers, capable, less able, suitable or inappropriate for administrative positions, will be selected by procedures not based on qualification, competence, skill, but on targeted criteria that are largely controlled. The forced adaptation to reality, following the decision of the Council of State, is also made to you in terms of SYRIZA, namely in terms of party arrangements. See also a second portrait of SYRIZA's new educational engineering - ANEL. The main criterion for selecting staff of administrative tasks is not administrative competence, educational leadership or even this elementary administrative experience, but the assessment of the criterion of teaching work, personality and general structure. I have heard colleagues from earlier saying: "But we need teachers who are in class to be able to run schools." Internationally there is another view, that what is counting is the educational leadership, the capacity in administrative and, of course, someone who is a teacher and, above all, a good teacher, to set an example. But will anyone say, so sloppy is the establishment of the new process by the Ministry of Education? It is not handy, ladies and gentlemen, as the teaching experience is estimated at ten molecules, while administrative and guidance experience is estimated at three points. And this is to select school directors who will carry out a post-administrative project. What better approach would there be to promote those who did not have the necessary qualifications for administrative posts to date, those who have no administrative experience, have not been found sufficient for administrative positions? I think you know a lot of them. And since there is no evaluation procedure, the government can play with molecules mechanisms in an equitable logic. I'm going to ask a question that's not clarified in the draft law. Will the administrative experience modalities be counted for those who were elected according to the process of No.4325/2015, which was considered illegal and unconstitutional? Will they be counted? Will they be molecules that can be measured in the next process? Also, Minister, it is incomprehensible but also ludicrous that in the process of considering the evidence of mobilisation of the interview the Ministry discovered at school a new entity. This entity is called "supervised permanent teachers", not a school club that gives its opinion, because that is where you would have a problem. You have a problem with that, too. I'll tell you why you have a constitutional problem. But you discovered another entity, the co-workers with the candidate permanent teachers. In order to manoeuvre the limits of constitutionality, you manoeuvre the limits of reason, administrative practice and seriousness. Things are simple. The teachers' association shall consist of all teachers, in accordance with the legislation, and permanent and alternate. It is therefore illegal to meet the Teaching Association only with permanent teachers. This, of course, is also derogating, ladies and gentlemen, against the deputies. Do you forget that there are schools that most teachers are substitutes? The teachers' association also meets at a meeting, ladies and gentlemen, I think you should see it again, according to the law, by the President, by the director and, in the event of an impediment by the Vice-President. That's what legislation says. You don't change it. So who will convene the co-existent permanent teachers and teachers of the school club? It is therefore illegal to preside over the oldest teacher appointed by the training department or meets with some members, since the training club is under strict legislation. I also think it is reasonably unacceptable, for those of us who come from the educational world, to reduce the molecules of taking a second degree. You're reducing molecules to those who've received a second degree. I mean, the one who sat and read more gets less molecules than the one who read less. The same unacceptable and anti-educational is to sum up the annual training certificates and receive a molecule of one that will not receive any molecule for the second postgraduate. That's unheard of. It's the release of the anti-motor. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] You tell teachers "do not do postgraduate, because what we want is to sum up different qualifications". Only drunkenness, levelling, but also a premium for low qualifications and moderate effort! Finally, what you are trying to do with the draft law under discussion is to build - and I say to you - new unconstitutionalisms, new anti-constitutional provisions on the earlier anti-constitutional provisions, on the logic of indifference on administrative capacity and experience and on the methodic prevalence of party moderation. I will conclude with one word on the issues of the administration of the HEIs and the extension of the mandates of monolithic and collective bodies until 30 November 2017. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. After 'excellence' we have heard something else today, ladies and gentlemen. So we have heard about the law of PASOK which introduced the councils - and I would like to correct the Minister - in which 80% was elected - not the 70% that Mr Mitsotakis said and which the Minister has repeated by electronic vote that he called it the curse of democracy. 80% of universities participated in the development of institution councils in 2012. Really, when did you discover this curse of democracy? Did you discover it when government officials, officials and MPs today, were candidates for the election of councils? Only if they were not elected. When did you discover it was the curse of democracy? When half of SYRIZA was against the other half about whether or not to participate in the election of councils? I think that in this Chamber we should be careful, ladies and gentlemen, before we speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u309	Mr. Papatheodorou, you'll have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u310	I shall conclude, Mr President. Because today, with this extension, you are trying to bring in legislation which, as you think, will affect the elections of the Republican authorities, I will tell you this: The project you bring has been devalued by the university community, which, as we well know, is self-regulation and rejects such a reasonable, often falsification. And history, I think, should teach. If you want to intervene in the university community by forming new correlations in the rectorial elections, you will simply fail. And that's a belief. I would ask you to listen to it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u311	Ms. Hara Kefalidou has the floor from the Democratic Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u312	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in the ordinary way you are legislating, it cannot be argued that the urgency of this draft law is a surprise to us. What if you had all the time planning, consulting, discussing with the actors and parties? Faithful in your line that nothing we do until we have the manual of government control, yet again, millennial times bring as an emergency a draft law on something "switched" since 2015. Since then, institutions and opposition have been telling you about anti-constitutional issues. But it took, as you can see, S.H.E.'s multi-page decision. To stop you. It didn't surprise you. It's not the first time. You're old acquaintances with the S.T.A. For you, however, it is always important for the sacred mission to pay your own premiums, to pay your customer obligations, and that is why you risked it. You did the same now. So your party duty is also doing alternative plan b prepares. With them and them, where to really take time to consult you! The Minister said 'it is not compulsory for urgent public consultation'. Unusable procedure against SYRIZA anyway. Whatever the institutions say, the educational community, you have decided to go through your own, fully consistent with the Syrian logic where everything is allowed in politics, as long as they serve the objective of maintaining power. There is, of course, this justice that sometimes spoils you. But you have found the solution, because the good boy knows another path. So you are compliant with the S.H.E.'s decision, while implementing what you have planned from the outset. Preserve as presidents the existing training directors by changing their title. They will participate from the back door as teachers with at least 20 years of administrative experience in a place of training director. But in the country where his rhetoric "whatever" goes to public speech comfortably, who are convening with great pride on their own, even though developments are perpetuating them permanently, what can anyone expect? In the country where university spaces are expropriated from boulders, such as yesterday with axes and barbecues, and where the known - strangers beat teachers and does not sweat the ear of the relevant Minister, are we calling for an upgraded school and a consultation on education issues? Well, that's too much. Minister, in the committee in thousands of ways you have reiterated that the participation of the Association of Professors in the selection of directors is their stake and their opinion must be expressed for reasons of democracy. If you really mean that, then why have you avoided public consultation? That's why I'm saying you're temporal. For two and a half years, we have watched you run out of any margin of legislative initiative to make laws in your measures. First attempt by the Balta - Kourakis Act: Remove the interview and put a vote by the teachers' club. Second attempt, six months later, Amendment Friends of grazing land: Re-establish the interview for selecting training managers with increased moleculosis and form the selection councils in a completely party manner. Today, third and pharmaceutical effort. Of course, after S.H.E.'s decision. Move more professionally. You sought the qualifications of friends of adjoining candidates and made their own measures. And because SYRIZANELs honor their word, they have a face to Greek society and they do not forget their electoral clientele, the father was made in their number. Sur mesure. And while in previous bills the burden had been given to formal qualifications, and less to pre-service, with not so good results, today you are testing backwards. You claim that it is for reasons of substance. But that's not a policy. It's for lisverisi. Proclaim your good intentions and the spirit of consensus that has last taken hold of you. But how? Making suits and fooling the S.T.E.Huh? You do not fall into a bolting of institutions and procedures. The spoon is over! Modulation. In the House today there are two aspects: chalk and interactive tables, the dilemma between pre-service and scientific training. Not a reason, of course, for evaluation. We don't find out, you know, America. The whole modern world has solved these for years. How hard do you think it is to find an objective molecule procedure? I'd say, too when you can't stand it, but you have to pretend you want it. Today in his speech Mr. Gabroglou gave us a riddle. How can you quantify social life? What exactly did he mean? And creative ambiguity continues. I am referring to annual training. What's critical? Don't it's the duration? Don't be the hours? Don't both be combined? Will you decide in the next bill? Because that's probably what I see getting on the way to S.T.A. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need two minutes, Mr. President. Thank you very much. Your disobedience to every effort to improve qualifications we knew it. This time you baptized her "a struggle to collect degrees". Today's law plan is an eye. See: low moleculosis in the second degree, non-existent moleculosis when there is a second or third postgraduate or doctorate. What's next? Negative moleculosis? In a hopeless attempt to save what is being saved, we have tabled some amendments as Democratic Incorporation. For example, for reasons of time, I will refer to one, as a teaching experience of the service of officials in a term of office. You have accepted this amendment. But you left out the training directors. I think it has been inadvertently. Otherwise, your decision creates strange combinations. Commands at HIO: You know that universities have broken up and that there are no administrations and instead of making elections now, you are extending the existing ones. I'm sure you're making time like this so you can plan on how to fully control the EHPs. The other things, the urban indifference, will be explained by the history of the future. Article 3, special treatment: The special treatment in any case is doomed, by the previous law, to Law 4415/2016. Now you're finishing it so you don't leave half your jobs behind. With alchemy, modifications, modifications to vacancies, did you achieve what? You've got your pre-services, seminars, qualifications, you've put all of them together, you've made them up, and you're serving us. Teachers will be placed without any distinction of qualifications. Result? Special lawsuits will pay the bill. I'm finishing with the Islamic mosque. One word I will just say: When the ANELs, your other half, your partner, hangs you by showing his true face, then you remember that you can turn to the progressive world. Invoke human rights, ask for a la kart consensus on a country's obligation, so that we do not get humiliated internationally. And I close in response to the Minister's words. All society as a whole and it says 'find them'. The need for consensus in education is us, Minister, and we have understood it for years, and we have acted with a law passed by two hundred fifty Members, who have even been scrupulous to date. Did SYRIZA now open his ears to the calls of society? Of course not. If so they easily opened ears and brains, this draft law would have time for consultation, would listen to the voices of the educational community and would not actually write to the oldest of society and justice. What, however, can be expected from usual sloppy, professionally pre-formative, perpetually superfluous and permanently arrogant? Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u313	Mr. Ilias Panagiotaros has the floor since the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u314	Thank you, Mr President. Today we are discussing another urgent bill which regulates, within many importing countries, issues of extremism. Now, of course, the question is what education is. The education we saw yesterday and the day before with scenes of infinitely good being unfolded outside the universities? The education in which there will also be a subject week with the juridical identities? The education where you degrade everything and in some time this enormous, the triennial history of the Greeks from ancient times until now, will be taught abundantly and which, in turn, will not exist at any time? That education? So the first four articles in this bill, which deal with various issues, are probably superficial and procedural - because you have lost it a long time ago - instead of discussing how to restore Greek education to greatness that was too many years ago and unfortunately now you are degenerating it. It also has a fifth article on this bill which is technically related, as you say, and administratively, to the mosque which is built rapidly and which in a few months' time you say will be ready. It will be a mosque that for a start it cost the Greek people about 1 million euros. Of course, in order to understand the scale of the interlocutory, four or five competitions had been declared atrocious before the latter, where the four major construction companies, who take all the projects in our country, showed particular interest and zeal for a project of just 950,000 euros. Of course, there are also the "private letters" where the present will be the rest of the projects that will be done in the second year, which exceeds EUR 100 million and see them. Otherwise they wouldn't go either. Before I go any further, I would like to make a comment on the terrorist strike in Manchester, Great Britain. If we look back and look at the various statements of support abroad, we find that unfortunately, particularly from Europe and European leaders, almost nobody is talking about who these terrorists were. They were Islamic terrorists, fanatical Muslims who only want to eliminate us from Europe - they say it, they advertise it and they are proud of it - and they come with their customs and customs. It is also regrettable that in our home country we were looking to find one of the various statements. I don't know if other than Golden Dawn he referred to Islamic terrorism. Unfortunately, neither the Archbishop, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, nor the New Democracy through Mr Mitsotakis, nor is anyone referring to the self-evident. This shows the enormous lack of Christian culture in Europe by those who govern it and want to degrade it. Unfortunately, this lack of Christian culture, Islamism, the Muslim invasion, the various 'peptofalangites' who are within the gates and the role of the various liberals, the various triumphants of multiculturalism, the various illegal immigrants and all of them are leaving the field open to all kinds of jihadists, fanatical Muslims - according to Allah - to take you, to take your heads all over, to take your women, our women, all Christian women. We see every day what women are experiencing in the Muslim world. We have heard various arguments from the SYRIZA rapporteur and others about Muslim rights to be churched. The problem - it says - appeared in the 2004 Olympiad where some Muslim athletes could not pray to Allah. These are ridiculous things you don't believe in either. And who's going to the mosques? The millions of illegal Muslim immigrants in Athens and all over Greece? Then one mosque won't be enough for either joke or good morning. Another very serious problem that now seems to be - it says - is on the board of directors, how the two members will be placed, whether one will be Sitis and whether the other is Sunni and what percentage it will be. We will soon see the following oxymomile, when and if the mosque ever works in Athens: clashes. And you know that when Muslims fight each other, they're not verbal. There they go live with explosives, usually sunnits in the Shia mosques and choke with hundreds. We'll live and live on scenes of infinitely good, and then you'll come and say we make a mosque for the Shia, one for the Sunni, one for some others, and I don't know what else. The mosques throughout Europe are now proven to be incubators of jihadists and nothing else. The most fanatical jihadists are those who had taken European passports, they are a second, third, fourth, or fifth generation, who have not been assimilated to either the local communities, the German, the French, the English or the Belgian or nowhere. The only thing that they feel proud of - like the twenty-two-two-year-old Libyan in Manchester - is for their Islamic religion and that we all have to pay for various sufferings, as they think they do. We heard you say that all Muslims are not the same. We also see the effort that is being made. We also saw from a newspaper on Sunday that passed us, which had two pages of cultural dedication, the following: 'Islam's enlightened. "There is" - he says - "and another Islam, Islam of humanism, emancipation and, why not, of love." Really, where did you see that? When they live with explosives, or when they hit their women in the morning, noon, afternoon? Is that the Islam of Humanity? And where are all these feminists, the liberals, who are fighting for the rights of women who have suddenly become and the greatest supporters through the various fanatical Islamic NGO states, to defend the bourgeoisie, to defend the right of women to say nothing at all. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Allow me, Mr President, for a minute. As the parliamentary representative said, in reply to the President's comment, I would like to say that yes, all Muslims are not terrorists, but unfortunately all terrorists are Muslims. And if you don't open your eyes to the reality, then we'll experience very brief moments of Manchester, France, Belgium, etc. I would like to make a quick comment on the hypocrisy of the New Democracy, which initially voted on the building of the mosque years ago, made all the remedial moves, brought laws so that the Archbishop of Athens could not have a say on it and suddenly you have some objections to procedural matters. As for the Independent Greeks, there hypocrisy goes without saying, because if there were no others willing to vote, it is certain that the Independent Greeks would vote as a member of the coup d'état and anything else. It's safe for everyone to say anything. Finally, I have a question, which many have: all those who come from Egypt, Libya, Iraq, Iran, Saudi Arabia - nobody is coming from there - from Yemen, from Africa and elsewhere are all Muslims. They are not happy with their homelands, but they are happy throughout the Western world who come and who not only come, but want to force their customs and customs. And here's the unbelievable and the oxymobile. They want to change us and make us like the countries from which they left in vain, either because they did not like them, or because they are fanatical and want to enforce the law of the Sharia.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u315	Please conclude, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u316	In conclusion, I would like to say something about the comment made by a speaker - if I am not mistaken - from SYRIZA, replying shortly later to the speaker of the Golden Dawn, that his speech - says - was a monument of darkness. This is a monument of darkness and it's not everything you're saying, the right to bourgeoisie, the right to clitoritomy to little girls and everything that's going on in our country. We're so sorry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u317	Mr Iason Fotillas has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u318	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, listen. It is not on the one hand possible to ask the parties and, on the other, to introduce the bill as an emergency, thereby undermining the whole process of necessary consultation with both parties themselves and with society and on the other, before the bill is submitted, to announce on the website of the Ministry of Education the pillars of moleculation, without any reference to evaluation. In other words, you are basically ignoring us and then we are asked for a consensus. You guys are nice! Now, on the bill. "Manolius changed and put on his clothes otherwise." That was the first thing that came to my mind as soon as I read the relevant bill and, in particular, Article 1, which is its core. I am explaining: The Government rather than going to brave changes, in terms of rationality and with the availability of renewal of education after the strand suffered by the unconstitutionalism of Law.4327/2015 on the selection of training directors, chose to make changes that were faithful to its ideas. It is revealing your intentions that the process of mobilisation in the pillars you have announced - as I said before - before the bill is submitted, without any reference to evaluation as a selection criterion. Then reduce the gravity of the scientific qualifications on the whole molecules. In particular, in Law 3848/2010 formal qualifications constituted 45.2% of all molecules. In the proposed draft law today, formal qualifications fall to 30% to 36%. Similarly, the gravity of antiquity is increased too much, which, of course, does not involve experience, since there is no evaluation for the candidates. In other words, the guiding and administrative experience of L.3848/2010 represented 26% of all molecules, now the proposed project amounts to almost 40%. Let me mention one specific example to be even more understandable: with the previous draft law on mobilisation of directors, it was foreseen that an instructor with fifteen years of pre-service, postgraduate degree in information and communication technologies, would receive nine molecules. Now with the suggestion that you, an instructor with twenty years of service, without any other qualification, get ten molecules. So the same thing, and not to say worse only on the basis of your idealism. You drive in this way, Minister, mainly to serve those who have a greater service and antiquity and to exclude all younger teachers with increased formal scientific qualifications. In other words, here too you indirectly recognise your consistent principle that excellence is a relic. Even that opinion of the teachers, you put it unqualified. But now I understand that you are in a difficult position after the fiasco of the previous system with the secret ballot of the Association of Teachers, which was judged to be unconstitutional. How miserable micro-service system do you serve, when you think about how to pet ears from your audience by introducing such provisions, which can also cause problems again? There is, of course, no provision for a selection procedure for all higher education staff, school advisors, training directors. Finally, let us say a word on the subject of Article 5. It is really unbelievable what we have heard about the rapporteur for ANELs and the triumph in the helmet that prevails in the government. The rapporteur of the ANLEs said that it is all right to say that their Minister, Mr Zouraris, says 'yes' and he signs the provision. I guess she'll be voting for it by night. But their group does not vote as anti-Christian provision and, at the same time, supports the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, which, according to your logic, is unchristian government that passes the order and at the same time denounces the New Democracy which supports the establishment of the mosque. What can I say? I guess my colleague's too dizzy...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u319	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u320	Please calm down. Please don't interrupt. Go on, Mr. Lightla.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u321	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u322	Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u323	I guess the fellow Member has been dizzy because of the continual...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u324	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u325	Now you're gonna let me go? Do you want me to answer you now? Will you force me?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u326	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u327	You're a nice democrat, Mr. Colleague. You're going to force me on how I'm going to be in my place?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u328	Mr. Fotella, continue your speech. Nothing is recorded.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u329	Is that what you mean by democracy?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u330	Mr. Lightla, can you hear me? You don't even want what I'm telling you to hear.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u331	I'm listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u332	Nothing is recorded in the Minutes from the speeches or holidays that have been made by Members. Continue your speech. It's holding time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u333	It is not recorded, but we understand how everyone understands democracy. That's what we understand. What can I say? It seems that my colleague has been dizzy by the constant memos and the taxes which he has to vote for and lost his sense of reality. Of course, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, we're not all the same. We in New Democracy never voted for specific bills on micro-partnership criteria, and this is evidenced by the fact that if we did not vote for some of these bills that you are proposing, they would not even pass because of your far-right ally. Could you act accordingly, overcome your micro-participatory thinking and think a little patriotic? However, I did not expect anything other than a government which one day announces, by the Prime Minister, that it will abolish the introductory examinations at universities, but when they ask it how the introduction will take place and what the children in the wilderness of today's 1st high school will say to them: 'We will see, do not worry'. I could no longer expect anything from a government that has come to the last point of opposition and without any sign of shame to issue press releases on the problems of our affected fellow citizens. Selled thanks to the calls from Maximos. I am talking about the 'Dayrority Group' by Mr Flavouraris, who mediated between the ministries and the citizens who are struggling to serve for their affairs and which the government itself fails through its ministers and the state mechanism. The "Saint Flamourris" will save them, even in press releases and taking advantage of the pain of these people. We do not, however, need a government of micro-services, brokers, saviours and poverty sharing. We need a government with vision and roots in both education and the economy, the means of liberating our society's productive forces from stateism and partisanism, and that is not your government, ladies and gentlemen, of SYRIZANEL. This will be the next government to come soon, that of Mr. Mitsotakis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u334	Mr. Mitafidis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u335	So if you think so, as Pirantello would say, ladies and gentlemen of the Opposition. You have replaced "After Christ" with "After SYRIZA". Of course, this is highly honorable for us, because we are a point of reference, whether for good or for evil. From this you will never escape, because there has been a historical incision. You cannot be reconciled with this fact, how the "proceeders" took over the rule of the country, trying to rid her of the sins with which you have loaded it. But I want to tell you that we have a start. We inherited it from one of our own teachers. I'll tell you. You, of course, when you hear his name, are creeping down. We inherited it from Lenin, who said that our measure of comparison is not our opponents. And he said something else, too, that you can't change the world either by the methods or the staff that has led him to the current stagnation. That is the case at issue in the present case. That is why I am going to speak positively, because you are following a method of total depreciation. You know what? In this game, the trap game is down. Do you know what it feels like lately? 'It is all the fault of the Migration'. I am not personally of this opinion, and I am very proud, like my party, of the battles that have taken place in post-cultural years to bring about social and political achievements. And in our own patronage is all the capital that has been conquered in the field of education. Because I see Mr Kegeroglu, I would like to ask him: Does he remember the proposals of the PASOK during the 1975 revision of the Constitution? Does the PASOK position recall the democratic planning of education with the participation of teachers' unions? Now you are intolerable even for expressing an opinion from the school club. Look at something. We made a retreat. It does not represent us what we are bringing today and we do not do any "collaps", as you say, that we want to bring the schoolteacher's club out of the window. It is precisely because we rely on society. We want society to be alive and above all where the battle for children's education is being fought. You will see that several of the speakers who have paralyzed from this Step were until recently active teachers, such as the Deputy Minister of Education. They came out of class and were in Parliament. Leave this defamatory "for the chairs". Have you ever seen a government in its half-and-a-half year bring a law for the first time in history on simple proportional? So much we love our chairs. Why didn't you vote for him? Because you have a completely undemocratic attitude. With regard to Mr Fotella - because you are also legal - the decision of the Council of State, have you read the minority opinion? You didn't read it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u336	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u337	For the S.T.E.'s decision. What does the minority view say? That the school club is barely the closest to the school unit and its life has a valid view.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u338	The majority of what he says?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u339	The majority got what he got out. Don't cross-cross.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u340	Mr. Mitafidis, continue your speech, say what you want, but not personal reports. I will beg you very much, not personal reports to a Member.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u341	I would like to ask you this: is secret voting an unreasonable choice? How do the judges elect the heads of their courts? Aren't they elected by secret ballot?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u342	Do you want to discuss the decision of the Council of State?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u343	Why not?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u344	How do universities elect the presidents of their departments? What about them in an anxiocratic way? How do we elect a government? How do we elect self-government rulers? That is why our parliamentary representative has rightly said that we have a problem of democracy here. It goes without saying that the guardians of justice have a basic democratic value: the right of people to choose. I would like to say something else. Obviously, we have a completely different concept of school. Because you are lifting the flag of dignity and soon my fellow citizen, Mr Gülekas, will come to Step, and I would like to mention a few details, and I also address this to PASOK. So, listen: Selections of training directors against "modernism", in the expression of your then Minister, Mr. Stylianides in 2007. Listen to the numbers. We don't have social certificates, but listen to them. Of the fifty-eight training directors, only five belonged to the New Democracy. Of the hundred and fifty-eight Heads of Offices, only twenty-five were not "blue" during the PASOK announcements, which denounced you that you are using the state as a "party spoil". May I tell you what followed, because I have written an article on this matter and will I submit it? Do you know what followed? All options have been cancelled in Thessaloniki. Do you know why? Because the place was filled with excellent managers from one side. As far as our area is concerned, he said: “Why should we apply for managers? We're cut by hand. They have also shared schools." Do you know where this case ended? In the courts. Until last year, they were running to the courts. Last year! All options have fallen. So why do you come here to do us, with that well-known right-wing, lessons of democracy and democracy? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] We are under the regime of economic and legislative coercion. We told you that. Instead of putting your back on some things, you're shooting at us. These things you testify to us are like seeing yourself in the mirror. We've been through this at all levels. I'd like to close up with you. I owe it to the memory of the chosen teachers, trade unionists and fighters, who have fought against the junta and who have reconstructed the movement of teachers, which I would like to remind you of indiscriminate bureaucrats of trade unionism, who do not even have the elementary elegance towards their colleagues who represent to say that they must have an opinion on who will run their school. We didn't even get to take it out yesterday, of course not from everyone. I read it to you and I'll testify to it in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u345	Mr. Mitafidis, testify to the Minutes. Do not read it because you have reached eight and a half minutes. Put it in the Minutes and all Members will read it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u346	I shall conclude, Mr President. These are printed immediately after the fall of the junta and I dedicate it to the PASOK colleagues, because some of them belonged to their own area. "In order to neutralise the responsibilities of the Heads, secondary education must be governed by hereditary revocations, the school director shall be elected by the Association of Teachers and be the executive body of his decisions." Now, of course, we have heard another theory here that the director should only exercise administrative functions. For us, this is a disgrace to the role of the teacher. We don't want the manager to be manager at school, but first between equals. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I'm filing them for the Practical and the memory of the ones who wrote history in the educational movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u347	Thank you, Mr. Mitafidis. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the above Western theory, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, forty-five students and three educational attendants from the 1st Municipal School of Thessaloniki. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Constantine Güulekas has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u348	Ladies and gentlemen, because we are discussing a draft law on education, one would say that it would be an opportunity to see where we can agree. However, because I see that many colleagues from the government space discover their ideological differences and come here trying to tell us about that before 2015 there was nothing standing in Greece and they are trying to fix the time clock. Let me remind you that for two and a half years you, ladies and gentlemen, have been ruling. Let me remind you that what you are doing is completely opposite to what you were saying. Why are you on your way? I don't understand. Last week you voted for the second memorandum. Two memos in two and a half years. Are you the ones who speak of consistency of words and works? Are you the ones who suddenly proclaim your left ideology, which is the balsam, but also the cure for any abnormality that existed at the place? Is that possible? Even where? Speaking of a bill on education? Do you want to remind you of your works and your days? Other things I had planned to say, but I was provoked by many of the previous colleagues in the government area. May I remind you what your Chief said a few months before taking over power, your Chief, the current Prime Minister of the country, Mr. Alexis Tsipras? Let me tell you about Thessaloniki's program, why am I from Thessaloniki?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u349	They've been re-electioning ever since.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u350	Allow me. He said: ‘A strategy that does not depend on our intention to negotiate differently. For us, it is clear that this will follow." What are you going to do? I read to you what Mr Tsipras said: 'We have incorporated the reintroduction of the thirteenth pension. It's not an election promise. It is a well thought out and well calculated step." The next step: 'Statement of debts to the public and insurance funds'. The following: "In the logic of relaunching the economy, it is the reinstatement of tax at 12,000 euros and the basic salary at 751 euros. It is a matter of social justice". The next one: 'Adjustment of red loans'. You remember all this, don't you? ‘No house in the hands of a banker’, etc. What were you voting on last week, ladies and gentlemen? The fourth memorandum of the country that you are now implementing with your decisions and of course these measures have been in force since 2017, some from 2018 and from 2019 and 2020 and you have committed the country. Yesterday we were serious about whether or not we should - he says - talk about the country's commitment to have primary surpluses by 2060. What do you say, ladies and gentlemen? If we did this, you would be there against banners, outside the House, and you would urge citizens to go for spontaneous protests. Are you coming today to teach us lessons, moving the finger that "we're here to fix things"? In fact, I was amazed at the fact that you also invoked justice decisions. Let me remind you that justice is one of the independent pillars of democracy. Are we now talking about the Council of State? Four decisions, your own decisions, your own government, have been considered as unconstitutional. The decisions of Minister Paulakis on the removal of hospital governors, the decisions of Minister Balta and Mr Kourakis on the issues of the placement of training directors, decisions on the extension of contractors and the decision on television licences, which, of course, the Institute of Florence and you here broke your clothes and said that they should only be four. Today, of course, you have retreated, you have gone under the cubit you have put, and today you have discovered that you agree with the National Broadcasting Council, which, of course, says that we may have nine and ten and eleven licenses, etc. It is something that most parties in this House have said. And we're going a little bit to the bill, too fast, because, frankly, I'm talking to you, I'd expect an effort today from the Ministry's political leadership, so that we can find a compromise field and see where we agree. And we start first - first of all from the process. Minister, can you bring in a bill with the urgency procedure, not put it in public consultation, and then say why do we not consent? What do we consent to? Why didn't you bring it in a normal process, talk about it, get into consultation, hear the objections from the educational community, from all concerned? To find a consensus and at any rate to say that yes, you know, in education we took a step forward as a country. What does people say outside the House? "Honey on some things, go on, we want the country that suffers - and we all suffer - to be able to move forward and take some steps forward." How do you do that? By bringing in and following the procedures that you yourself, when you were in the Opposition, have you conquered and condemned them? So you condemned the legislative acts, so you condemned the amendments which were inappropriate to various bills and said, "We are never going to follow such a procedure" and do so on occasion. And where do you do it? In the field of education. Why? Was there a problem with that? And because the law came out unconstitutional, should you have had time to do that? Let's get it a little early on all this. Why? And, as you can see, we are in New Democracy's regular tactics to say that we agree on many of them. And we say that we agree, because what is in the right direction will not say that, you know, we absolutely must condemn it simply because we are opposition, just as you did not vote for a bill in this Chamber during your counter-population. It's a terrible impression to me! And since I do not want to say again what my colleagues from New Democracy, the previous ones, have said, I will only close with this: I have given the Ministry of Education a State Secretary and indeed had the sensitive area of vocational education and technical training. I am sorry, Mr Minister of Education, sincerely, that bodies who have asked to speak and who were responsible for the EPP, from OLTEE, from the Pan-Hellenic Association of Educational Techniques, from the Central Assembly of the Chamber of Deputies have ruled out them. Why? Of the fourteen institutions, four were officials of the Ministry of Education and did you exclude those relating to technical education? So, technical training will be the path of education permanently? And I'm telling you, because I'm really proud that we put a bit of a stone when we were there. It must be done in all ministries, but above all in the Ministry of Education. In other words, at that time, the Special Education Committees which did not exist, ladies and gentlemen, for all children who end high school and who are children, our fellow people, in other words, who have some health problems, disability problems and have been a very positive step. And we believe that this should continue and everyone put another stone when it comes and not just pay and break down. We are talking here about technical training, which we, Minister, are voting on. But I'm telling you, these issues, why don't you talk about them? I would like to say here, because we are talking about vocational training, technical education, lifelong learning, about this tragic second-rate schools, ladies and gentlemen. You know that 15 days ago, now, were the paintings with the teachers who went to serve the second chance schools? That is how it is based, Minister, on this institution of our fellow people, that we are giving them a second chance to complete a course of study because they have not had the opportunity to do so in other years when they should do so. Is the school year coming to an end in June and you are now in the middle of May - about the beginning of May - announcing the lists of teachers who will run the second opportunity schools? And you say, "You know, we may have to prolong by a month the school year to complete." Finish what? What hasn't happened all this school year, will you finish it in a month? But I'm sorry you don't even give us that chance. In the way you choose to legislate, you actually put the rest of the House across, just because you are unfortunately choosing a path that leads you to isolationism.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u351	Mr. Sevastakis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u352	Thank you very much, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, for being able to hear and contribute to a dialogue on education, which will develop into a persuasive sense of insecurity on this point. Dialogue, litigation, the exchange of arguments, the organisation of arguments is a very important parameter, or at least it is part of the SYRIZA educational and cultural army. Minister, I would like, personally, to speak to you about the extreme degree. There is a very interesting use, up to abuse, of the terms 'best practices', 'excellent', etc. What is it that covers such rhetoric? For too long, abuse, use, excesses, and reference to these conditions have been in the political language. I think it hides what a very high suspicion, particularly of the New Democracy, reveals, that there is a system of co-responsibility unfortunately, a system that tries to control the emergence of the strain, the use of the stem, the productive integration of the stem, an insecure system, which unfortunately does not allow the truly talented, collaborative, inventive, educated, honesty to articulate within the system, within reality and create production, political, educational and cultural production. I think that this is the reality and this is reflected in all positions, that the cares and regulations of the SYRIZA - it is a regulatory bill, it is not a large strategy bill and it is a bill under the state of a very heavy pressure. The decision of the Council of State has been taken late, and early on there is the need to staff the educational structures, so in urgent terms the discussion and regulation had to take place. I'm sure it's not a bill made in void, composed in void. There are special conditions and special pressures, political pressures, which the government accepts, which our country as a whole. We do not have a great initiative and a purely political landscape that can compose our will. However, in these special war conditions you must make the major, to create the greatest heathen incision. In these circumstances, therefore, there is an arrangement for directors. One can bring this or the other review viewpoint, it can bring this or the other molecular part, this qualification over the other. But the main thing is that you can serve schools with those who can run, who can run and have a good relationship with their subject, that is, with the world that the schools manage and with the school structure itself as an administrative form. This is threatening the bill. I think that we can - and it seemed from the assimilation of many regulations proposed by the Opposition and which were finally assimilated to the legislative body - bring about and improve and boldly read the problems that might arise later. However, it does not explain the high degrees of opposition, which even start with other reasons. Memorandums put, the country is maladministration, the country has a rough production of legislative work, etc. It's not explained by what the legislation contains. The demand for the talented person to be identifiable and to be able to participate is related to his educational identity. It is very important that this link: Educational identity, not just a quote of titles but an educational identity, which means its titles, qualifications are active and they form it as a teaching subject within the classroom, and in this way it can, having accumulated experience, haunt its administrative identity. That's how it's done. Management is not a form that can be installed anywhere in any administrative structure. Administration also comes from the personal spiritual experience, especially in the sensitive area of education, which is investment, which is the structure, which continues with the Greek society, if you like, the structure, which creates a social devaluation of the great tensions that the crisis produces, and which, with this macroscopic view, must also be seen in a context of great political abrasion. We must be open and bold. We are not at risk from regulation. We can improve them and reform them. We are not at risk from any honest attempt to form a teaching continuity that our country needs. The other legislation, which comes, corresponds to social needs and I think that we can gradually respond to the great deficit that is social unity.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u353	Mrs Anagnastopoulou has the floor from SYRIZA. Mrs. Anagnostopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u354	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not be tempted to comment on the general education policy which has been heard in this Chamber all day long. We have discussed, and a few months ago we were opposed to a debate on the previous agenda at the level of parties leaders, and today the Minister, Mr Gavroglou, was also mentioned in detail by the State Secretary, Mr Baxvanakis and my colleagues. There are lines of controversy and these are well known. I will simply say that there has been a very great fight for the erosion of the public education system, for education by the neoliberal forces, right-wing and social-democratic, over a 20-year period, not only in Greece, but throughout Europe. What's the result? That the public education system has nonetheless resisted. Why did he resist? Because it is the biggest area of social mobility created by the states of Europe - and ours - despite the distortions. It is the biggest area of fermentation and equality, absorption of class conflicts. It is the biggest area of development, intellectualization and a great trade union movement. I personally am grateful to this public education system. Despite these attacks, therefore, this system has resisted and these resistances have been trying since 2015 to strengthen it so that it does not collapse. But, in our country, when social democracy changed a route to the right, and they worked as neoliberal forces, what they tried to do is school - business, university - business, and because they did not succeed, they built a miserable customer system. I could give you names of environmental education directors for twenty-thirty years or directors for ten-five years, who are collecting papers and have never been in one class. They haven't done any of this. Yeah, that's what I'm against. I admire the Minister, Mr. Gabroglou, who is consensual, trying to open dialogue corridors. I can't, I'm on the other side, and I can't have this dialogue. Minister, I am sorry to say this - and I have listened today despite your own efforts - dialogue and consensus means one thing: 'You are with us or you are ideological and you do not want dialogue'. That's how I hired it. I don't know how you hired it. Although all these attacks have been carried out, despite the fact that neoliberalism and the European Union still operates in the same way, for two years now and because of the terrorist attacks, Europe has started cowardly - cowardly coming back to this issue of democratic participatory school. At all the ministerial meetings, along with how we operate the school, it is how we bring the school back as a democratic and participatory one, because we are in danger. Because the educational system has to play this role it has played for decades. Of course, our systemic issues have always been behind this Europe, which they otherwise admired and followed. I won't say much about the bill. My ministers and colleagues have said all about it. I will only say that I disagree and say this very well with the decision of the Council of State and I do not understand why a decision cannot be decided, as I was against the decision on citizenship and on the same day. Of course, the state - and the Ministry does well - must respect the case. I'm staying on one thing, on the molecule. If something is destroying - I as a university teacher, I say this - and our universities and the production of thought and research in that country, it is the imposition of market conditions: it was collecting papers, postgraduate papers and doctorates, which are not part of the research process. Personally, my party and my colleagues, what they care about is the teacher and teacher being a teacher in class. What teachers need is not collecting papers. And he tells you an excellent one for your eyes! I've gathered a lot of degrees in my life! What teachers need is training. It is to renew the tools they have for the transmission of knowledge, to renew the tools for approaching a complex social reality. Who kept schools and society up after the big migratory wave? Have you ever been to a school that you want the commander to see what 1/3 on the list means to be foreign children with other cultural references, with other family routes and stories, how important it is for this social equality, not equalism, as you say? A word, Mr President, on Article 5 on the Islamic mosque. Everyone has entreated, and I am truly grateful to the Ministry of Education and the ministers, who have brought this article. They update this provision and it is not a matter for me if Greece makes its international obligations if it is in line with its international obligations. It responds to a social and historical reality. Social is well-known, we now have fellow Muslims. What's the historical reality? There are two things in the whole Mediterranean area: the trophies and the straight line up where the minaret is. Throughout the Middle East there are churches, mosques, patriarchies, mosques, etc. And the Byzantines already inaugurated it. As soon as Islam spread, the first thing they said was that what we do is make mosques. They were gonna kill the Arabs, they were always fighting. Elizabeth Zachariadou, a very good Turkologist, the best in my opinion, has written in detail about them. In our region coexistence and comparison developed. Let some of the "Luxandra" wings read Cosma Citizen, to understand a little. I would like to ask you, Minister, if it is your responsibility, to see what will happen with the Muslim cemetery. He charged a company that had taken care of it. Because, you know, coexistence is not only recorded among the living, but mostly among the dead.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u355	I've said it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u356	You said that. I'm sorry, Minister. I was busy, I had to leave, and I didn't hear it. To close, I want to say one thing, and it's about the form called Golden Dawn. I also have to say that those who are inspired by him, who has made the greatest hemorrhaging in Europe and our country, those who inspire of those who have made the greatest national disaster of modern Greece, the Cyprus issue, have no right to speak of a nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u357	Mr. Friend from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u358	Thank you, Mr President. After Mrs Anagnostopoulou, it is a little difficult to say more clearly about certain truths about education, but also about culture and social coexistence in general. The bill was tabled as a matter of urgency because of the special circumstances created by the Council of State decision and given that the new directors must be elected by the end of July, which ends the term of current directors, because otherwise the preparation will be delayed, so that schools can be opened again this year. Those who propose that we delay the treatment of this sudden institutional defect in fact are those who want the country back where it was before us, in other words, in a process where the schools will be opened after two or three months. We have priority for schools to open every year on time. As part of this priority, it is also our insistence that the law be passed, which gives a solution to the problem of the choice of school directors. I have heard the representatives of the other parties, the bi-party opposition, the former power parties, criticise that SYRIZA is building a party state in education. I wonder: The choice of SYRIZA, the Ministers of Balta and Kourakis, to give 30% responsibility for the selection of training directors to all teachers, through secret ballot, is an option for partyisation? Can we believe and say - what does the Council of State say? - that it runs counter to the principle of objectivity, dignity. They say, I don't accept them, but that makes sense to say something. But are you saying partyisation, when everyone votes with ballots, unmediated, and 30% elect by mobilizing their managers? These are absurdities, no one can claim them. Secondly, it is obviously an ad hoc regulation which responds to the problem of the decision of the Council of State, which is not a decision of a universal summit. A court decided on the basis of legal concepts and legislation that exists today. Yes, sir. There is also the minority that has been heard. There are good and bad decisions. Decisions are judged. What can we do? We're all judging. No one's above judgment. The question is another: do we need a system of selecting all the teachers? And I mean both school directors and educational directors and regional managers and school advisors. Yeah, we need the peculiarities that exist for each place. Obviously, when we leave this forced legislative procedure, we will bring in - the Minister has said so - the similar arrangements in the House so that the new terms can be dealt with with with a new, more complex selection system. That's where there might be consents? I hope so. I say I hope and immediately think of Mr. Mitsotakis' image in this morning's step. Mr Mitsotakis has been revealing and - I acknowledge it - sincerely. Repeat his usual defamatory attack on public school. He said everything. He said it last year, but he was disproved in September. Schools have worked, and this is the awareness of parents and students. They worked without the balls being made in the governments of New Democracy and PASOK and other mixed governmental patterns. But destructiveness repeats itself, because - he tells you - something will remain. I must tell you that these attacks, the conscious defamatory attacks on public school serve not the public interest, not the interests of children and society. Unfortunately, the New Democracy, with a great deal of contribution to the formation of public education in our country - there is no way of arguing with some moves that have taken place, but with an offer - it has appeared in recent years, at the time of neoliberalism, to place greater emphasis on the private sector of education, and worse, on the privatisation of public education, on the hidden privatisation of public education. Do we blame her? I have Mr Mitsotakis' speech here in front of me. There is no reference to the public school, but only a dictionary parentheses on the stream of twenty pages of speech. There's nothing. Nothing about primary school.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u359	But that's what the President was talking about.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u360	What kind of school is there for Mr. Mitsotakis, as a target, as a vision, as a plan and as a value? There is, he says, the school 'free and autonomous'. Free from who? Autonomous of whom? Is there a problem of a tight hug, control of educational structures by the state? To accept that there are such excesses. To accept that we need to give more initiative to school units. That is why trust in the association of teachers and teachers. Otherwise, where are you going to give trust? To one face? The collective responsibility of the school will give the trust, therefore the democratic establishment of the school community. But here we are talking about something else. Here Mr Mitsotakis described the model of multi-speed schools, of good and bad schools, which instead of being social mobility mechanisms, instead of being mechanisms that try to influence and form a school of equality and quality, are mechanisms that reproducing social inequalities in the most barbaric way. In poor areas there should be downgraded schools and in richer schools. It is not the responsibility of the state, public, an equal treatment of all schools, but of parents, depending on whether they have money or do not have, whether they have education, class qualifications or not. These aren't things Mr. Mitsotakis thinks about. It's Thatcher's educational policy. She's the one who says below: No teachers, but managers, people who will have certified administrative capacity. Who will they have certified administrative capacity? ‘... people who do not need to have significant educational experience, but need to have certified administrative capacity’. And the school manager, as Mr Mitsotakis says in his text, will look for, exploit - says - human and material resources. What will the state, the central government, do? He won't send people, or the human resources that teachers are, to all schools? Will the principal be looking for them to find them and hire them and fire them? Shouldn't the state and its decentralised administration define a financial planning for schools? Should the school manager be looking for material resources, that is, for sponsors? Obviously schools must have a great degree of autonomy, but not in order to create schools of many speeds, but in order to be live cells open to their social circles, with a corpus of basic knowledge for every level of study, with guaranteed and unsatisfactory interest in public and state, in terms of both the financial grant and the social value that the state and society have to attach to education and the school in general.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u361	Mr. Philly, please finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u362	I shall conclude, Mr President. Mr. Mitsotakis spoke of freedom, autonomy, merit. He forgot - the toys of oblivion - the word 'democracy'. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Obviously Mr Mitsotakis does not have a good relationship with that word as well as with the word 'public school'. But without a climate of democracy the school is downgrading. We lived through the time when Mr Mitsotakis was Minister of Administrative Reform with the persecution of civil servants and the persecution of teachers. And a school is downgraded when teachers are treated punishably. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Ms. CHRISTOPOULOUou, takes over the President's seat.]] School with managers, not managers, but teachers. School of democratic, educational and not anonymous corporation. No multi-speed schools with undergraduate education depending on the social environment. No schools trapped in the cultural and economic environment of parents attending them. School which can give the possibility of a promise, the promise of children's education and social rise. So these students are obviously not customers at school, as Mr Mitsotakis said at the conference in New Democracy. They are pupils, that is, in a sense, our citizens, to whom the state, the public, the society of education and everything from there and beyond bear witness. Finally, I would just like to say a word: Look, Mr Mitsotakis appeared with some greeting on the subject of private education. It is the law that alone, along with the Golden Dawn, did not vote last August here in the House. The law was accepted, tolerant of many parties, of the rest of the parties. I didn't expect a submission to come out now in front of the tent. And I mean by a presenter of the various non-legislative forces and interests, within and outside the country, that he is a protagonist in this battle against the dignity of private teachers, in this battle that concerns the real meaning of private education, but - I repeat - a decent one. I would like to say that the government was forced to make certain arrangements within a framework of more general coercive choices of the measures that we voted on last week and which we will see where we will end up already. If we had to do this, it was not because we wanted it, but because we were able to count on certain elements, political options that we had before us. And the statement by the Minister of Education that the disciplinary questions of private teachers remain the responsibility of the disciplinary boards, as is the case throughout the world and in all the states of law, is a statement showing our confidence in the functioning of private education on the basis of equality criteria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u363	The last speaker, Mr Kegeroglu, has the floor. Here, Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u364	Thank you, Madam President. Before being placed, I would like to express, both personally and on behalf of our group, and on behalf of the entire House, the condemnation of terrorism against the former Prime Minister, Mr Papademos, of course, the people and his colleagues who were together. Let us hope that there will be no bad development in any of these people's lives, either Mr Papademos himself or his police and colleagues. Mr Philly, democracy is indeed not a la carte. You may have a point in your remarks, but please see the position of the State Secretary, who spoke of an anti-democratic decision by the Council of State. Look, every institution does not function democratically when we like its decisions and when we do not like it operates undemocratically. It is another question of whether or not we agree with the decisions, and not with those of the government. Inadmissible! Of course Mr Gavroglou's expression of the curse of a law can also be reversed for the curse of other laws and legislation. These are not political positions. What have you been doing for twenty years? What have you been doing forty years? and too much, you remember and you know very well what we have done in the years we have ruled this place. You know very well that major changes in education, reforms in education are the work of PASOK, with initiatives taken since the 1980s and then, with the framework law for the universities of '82, with the law establishing TEIs since '83, for the law on primary and secondary education then, which we gave breath and vitality to the educational process. And we went on. Education policy in general to upgrade the position of teachers, the quality of education and, of course, the infrastructure was a constant concern of our governments. No one claims that there were no problems or that there were no mistakes. But this tax-free policy, this tax-free phrase you have, you know that it is no place, because the world, despite the problems, knows that important work has been done. You might disagree, not to vote, not to support or agree, but special treatment, for example, before PASOK was nonexistent. The full-day school, second-time schools, nine-year-old compulsory education, the new system of administration in education, what we are discussing today the criteria for its staffing, the Open University, research centres, postgraduate studies - I do not want to mention even with the titles of dozens of interventions and initiatives - all this is a living reality. It's an advance undeniable to the place. I have to say that many times at the edge of the speech many criticize education and universities negatively, and that is wrong, because the best assessment of Greek universities, polytechnics and TEIs is not made by some international so-called organisations and others who have other criteria and interests in their evaluation. It is done by whether or not the graduates of Greek universities and TEIs are wanted throughout Europe and the world. And that's the real evaluation. The fact that we have problems in the country, that our scientists are in Greece to a large extent unemployed, is not because of the Greek universities and the quality that scientists have, but because of the structural element that has to do with our development model and, of course, the crisis itself, which is long-term. These are, ladies and gentlemen, undeniably. We must say that we have continued in the crisis with changes and reforms. We continued and brought L.3848/2010, which is the most aptitudeful and established a transparent system. There is no question of that. Some may say that he had a problem at this point or at this point and make point suggestions and interventions. It has been a huge advance since the five-year New Democracy, which has not only derailed the economy, but has derailed many things that have to do with the public administration, which have to do with their institutions themselves. They've already been mentioned. This system, therefore, instead of being safeguarded, improved, came a piece of legislation to abolish it and establish another logic. Today, what you are bringing about and targeted is more specific to the policies of the New Democracy. Look at it. It's the other side. The fact that there will be other friends of rulers and that they were others who are rulers, then they are more than anything else. Government directors will have and we will have similar results to those counts you said before. We brought Mr. 4009/2011. It is not that it was voted by a large majority in Parliament. That's not something that's the first for this law. But he brought something new. Inside the crisis we need to see different things, upgrade functions, have greater effectiveness. I believe that it is really wrong today that, instead of supporting a system and seeing how it improves, how it makes use of previous systems, it comes to zeroing and referring to a phrase that does not correspond to reality. The rapporteur himself - morning he made the mistake. I had to take the floor and tell him that he was judged by this system, which was cursed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u365	But are you serious now?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u366	Yes, yes, I'm serious, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u367	Did you do us a favor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u368	What can you say, sir? That system didn't do favors, sir. He didn't do any favors.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u369	Obviously.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u370	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u371	It wasn't rousphetological, like you said. If it was rousphetological, you have to tell us who made you the rushphetti. Is that right? Come on. And learn to listen.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u372	You're sad.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u373	You look sad.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u374	Please. Now we're done. Wait. Don't cook it in the end.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u375	Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u376	We have tabled better proposals with too many oral and oral amendments. Unfortunately, the Minister did not accept the main improvements. A number of comments were received, but most of them were referred back to the future. It has not even accepted the European school, which is indeed a necessary regulation to do. I conclude by saying that the main negative element of this project which is being introduced is that it reduces participation, reduces the criteria for knowledge, real knowledge and ability and increases the standard of experience. This contrasts with what you have said you want new potential. Unfortunately, you increased from five years to ten, you said then that you were reducing it to eight, the condition, and I think that is what shows him that you are in the wrong direction. The second thing I want to say about the system that you are introducing is that it does not have a really participatory process of the educational community in the evaluation. It's an evaluation caricature that's done. It's a caricature, you don't even refer to an institution. You refer to teachers who are generally and vaguely involved. I close by pointing out, Minister, that you and the Prime Minister have made a huge mistake, by bulling our children a few days before giving examinations, announcing the abolition of examinations. These students who are giving tests today unfortunately suffered this psychological pressure. And let us not mention it in the next few days, unless you have completed the proposal and deposit it. It is best after the end of the examinations to report your decisions, whatever criteria you want to establish for the system of introduction to universities and TEIs. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u377	Is there anyone who wants to be seconded? As far as I can see.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u378	Soon, Madam President!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u379	I hope you mean it when you say it soon. Mr. Stephen, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u380	I need a minute for Mr. Kegeroglu. Throughout the procedure, I assumed that some things were said mostly by ignorance. Now I think some things were said because they had to lie. With regard to new technologies that are not included, I would like to say that this is for the very simple reason that not everyone has the opportunity to have the certification. As far as the whole day and schooling is concerned, neither is it false that they are abolished. Today, I have the decision published in the Official Journal of the Government, according to which nine hundred and seventy schools, as promised during the last visit to the Ministry, the Prime Minister, are going to operate from 2017 to 2018. I'm putting the decision in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Stefos, presents for the minutes the abovementioned decision, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] For the special treatment, what my ears heard a moment ago and what I heard during the day today! There is criticism from those who had practically put the special treatment on ice for eight years. There was hardly any diagnosis of disabled students in special education. We did it last year. We have founded five hundred thirty-three blocks of integration, three special kindergartens, six special primary schools, five EEKs, nine special professional schools, one special school. In a few days' time, a special kindergarten, a special public school, two EEKs and nine special professional schools and high school are established. That's gonna happen right away. It was, it says, a remarkable system of Ms Diamantopoulou in 2010, and it is our system of anxiety, which, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the candidates declared the schools' choices before the interview and went to the interview slaughtered! They knew which school everyone was going to play. They shared schools in the hallways. It was heard a moment ago that vocational education was a 'transparent' of education. What a disgrace! You talk about a 'parallel', when a few years ago New Democracy and Mitsotakis fired two and a half thousand teachers of vocational education, whom we re-entered and reopened the courses. The problem is not whether we like it and you, ladies and gentlemen. The point is that we want a democratic school, with the educational community having the first reason, while you see education through the ideological perspective of the free market and trade. You're dreaming of managers in the position of managers. Your dream of education is analogous to what you want for society: autocracy, vertical labour relations, violation of labour rights, full privatisation of every sector that has not been privatised. The dream of the New Democracy is a society and an education dark, Orguel, passive to the decisions of the leaderships. You've been struggling for a long time, but you won't. However, I would like to insist a little on what you said that 2010 was a pitiful system, and today is an anxiocratic. In 2004, Mr Baxvanakis and Mr Mitafidis reported what exactly happened, which New Democracy was slashed into a night of about twenty head of education. He replaced them three years later. But let's talk a little bit about what the Papandreou government did with the infamous objective and merits law of 2010. Let's talk about canceling the appointment of forty school directors in Trikala, why in the crises that the 'green' regional training director had at that time placed on the training board - who do you say? - Her husband, her husband. In the Minutes - and I shall end in a minute - the decisions and complaints of the trade unionists of the IAEA at that time. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Stefos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] These court rulings were made a while ago and of course, as you can see, they were all void. Let's talk about the process of selecting directors in East Thessaloniki high and high schools, where the hereditaries who participated in the service councils had not received copies of the candidates' biographics on the grounds that they ruined the photocopying machine, events which, of course, led to a complaint by the IACC about how your 'children' were promoted, gentlemen of PASOK. I'm done with two things. Today, my name has been heard many times, that I was chosen as a school director twice. Of course, in some cases it sounded rather relaxed - and so I saw it - but Mr Kegeroglu exceeded himself. No, no one did anything to me at all! And that, of course, everyone knows. And one more thing about the public school that Nikos Philis said, who I don't know if he's here: He's not found - and I'm not just talking about the Chief of New Democracy, but about the speakers, whom I honor and know I'm also a mild-minded man - one to talk about the good practices that are being pursued in these public schools, about the successes of public schools, about what wretched children do. Recently the 7th High School - High School of Ioannina - if I am not mistaken - had an excellent distinction. And there are other good practices. And it's not just public schools that have good practice. They're private schools too. And in these schools there are children of popular families. But there are mostly teachers who testify to every day's activity. What we need to discuss at some point is how we can upgrade this school, give it the opportunity to get better and let the teachers breathe, without having the fear that someone will come sometime to evaluate them in order to fire them again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u381	Mrs. Kerameau has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u382	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to begin by expressing unequivocally the New Democracy's condemnation of the male terrorist attack that took place just now against the former Prime Minister, Luke Papademos. On behalf of the New Democracy I wish for a very rapid and complete recovery to the former Prime Minister and the other injured in this attack. And I come briefly with a few comments on what was said: Look, gentlemen of the ruling majority, you have spent three difficult days and you have spent three difficult days, because the Council of State has repeatedly collapsed...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u383	Go back to the Council of State!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u384	Yes, gentlemen of the ruling majority, the Council of State is an institution. And there is something called 'discrimination of powers'. And "discrimination of powers" means that judiciary judges and we must all comply. It's been a long time because your account has collapsed. One of your policies is falling apart. Let me remind you of the Pappa Act on TV licenses, remind you of the decisions of Polakis on the removal of hospital governors, to remind you of the Skourleti decision on renewal contracts in OTAs and to remind you of the Balta-Kourakis Act, which was considered unconstitutional. So your position is very difficult. I understand that, and I regret to some extent, because you come here and you ought to find some words about your policies falling apart from each other. You know, Mr. SYRIZA's rapporteur and Mr. Friend, you said we didn't talk about public school. You probably didn't hear the speech of the Chief of Staff Response, who only talked about the public school.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u385	I got her here!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u386	If you did not realize that what was mentioned was in public school, then there is a fundamental problem. You know, however, it is hypocritical, ladies and gentlemen, and if any teacher from another European country listened to this debate, he would not believe that three days now you are telling us about selecting managers and selecting senior executives and you do not dare to unravel the word 'assessment'. You dare not say it and talk about a better school! You are right, Mr Stephoe, that you say we have excellent teachers and excellent schools, and we must all try to do better. How do you get better? When you're rated, and when moderates are trained to be better and excellent ones are rewarded. That's an evaluation.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u387	Where are the others going, dear?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u388	Mr. Stephoe, let me finish. I didn't interrupt you. Tell me a clue within the 2013 presidential decree that talks about dismissal in case of a misassessment. Tell me! Tell me a clue that substantiates this.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u389	Teachers ask! Three thousand teachers...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u390	You're talking about public school and you don't dare say that we have to assess teachers, make them even better. Teachers themselves have to do this and ask themselves to be better. That's how they'll get better through evaluation.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u391	You didn't notice this morning what I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u392	And I close, Madam President, with two more comments. One for the mosque and one for the amendment on the 'Sikiariot Foundation'. First of all for the mosque to say that as you have heard and first of all you know, the New Democracy has traditionally supported the upbuilding of the Islamic mosque. It is a matter of rights, first of all human rights, and, of course, there is, if you like, an intrinsic purpose, which is to reduce and ideally eliminate illegal places of worship. The New Democracy, therefore, of course, supports every effort to build up the mosque. We have had some concerns, which we have raised, about the financing of the mosque and the establishment of the board of directors. I welcome here the fact that the government has listened to our concerns and withdrew the article on its resources. We are also committed to discussing the best way of dealing with the source and the quality of its revenue. We shall of course vote 'yes' in the article on the mosque. I come very quickly to the amendment on the 'Sicily Foundation' that has been tabled. We're positive and we're going to vote on it. But, Minister, it is clearly not a solution. And it is not a solution for two reasons: first of all, the question of the financing of this institution must be resolved. We, of course, are voting in favour of this article because we do not want to find children with these very serious needs on the road, and that is why we support it. However, the question of funding needs to be resolved, and we need to think a little bit about it being a problematic precedent. It takes care of such arrangements and we invite you to deal seriously with such cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u393	Mr. Constantopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u394	Minister, I would like to say that, first of all, it is a positive development that you have accepted several of our proposals, such as the statement of preference for school units by the candidate directors, once the rating tables have been completed. That is what transparency requires. For the amendment number 1041 and for the specific item number 109 you said that you would take it into account in the adoption of a ministerial decision. I'll say good-bye. We believe, of course, that there is a need for an explicit provision of the law on the content of the ministerial decision. Minister, the structured interview, the topic bank, the video interview, the reasoned opinion on each candidate ensures the objectivity of the crises and, of course, the expression of genuinely deserved officials. Minister, I now come to the amendment with a general number of 1040 and a specialist of 108 for the recognition of the term of office as regards transition. You have tabled here - we have asked for it to be accepted - a legislative improvement in a positive way, in the form of our proposals in substance. I do not doubt why you did not accept our amendment as a whole. And of course, you accepted our request for the ten teaching years to be eight. But you have forgotten and I think it is your omission of training directors. I'd like you to include them. We are basically talking about twenty - five worthy training directors, for so many are left out of this molecules on the ground. And you leave them with your own responsibility. I believe that even at the very last moment you will include them. With regard to Sikiridio, I said in the morning and I repeat our position that all legal persons under private law must be provided for the social care or training of disabled or disabled persons and, of course, now that legal persons are certified in accordance with Law 2646/1998. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to stress the responsible attitude of the Democratic Integration, where, yesterday, in Article 5 on the Islamic mosque, we raised the issue, but also with the responsible national responsibility that we possess, which we have been serving over a period of time, without purpose, we have given the opportunity to come to plenary today to discuss the issue of the Islamic mosque. Because we cannot decide, as I said this morning, à la carte. After all, in our own way we have drawn up either as a PASOK or today as a Democratic Reconciliation, the rest are coming. We therefore welcome you on the road to realism. Finally, I would like to say, Minister, that the work of PASOK over time has a name and, in particular, in education, no one needs to be reproached, because it is so great that it really is understood by everyone and, at the same time, since it has a name, nobody can question it. In conclusion, I too would like to wish Mr Papademos a quick recovery and, of course, condemn the terrorist action against him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u395	Mr. Eliopulus, do you want the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u396	No, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u397	Mr. Delia, do you want the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u398	No, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u399	Mr. Katsikis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u400	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to warmly thank all the political forces of counter-population, because they have dealt very much today with the Independent Greeks and have confirmed their way that the Independent Greeks are an upcoming force that focuses mainly on Christian and social perceptions. And these, ladies and gentlemen, we support, when, with our reaction and our disagreement on democratic grounds, we have voted against the committees as well, which we will then do, Article 5 on the Muslim mosque. Of course, I must note that the rapporteur of the New Democracy has taken both the Chief of Staff and her colleagues to believe that between ANEL and SYRIZA there is a breach on the basis of disagreement of views and positions with the Deputy Minister Zurari. Mr Zouraris, consistent with his political tactics, as he voted for in 2016 - I have said before, and I repeat now to inspire it - so today, in the capacity of the Deputy Minister, he signs that bill, consistent with his policy and now in his ministerial position, demonstrating that, first of all, it is not differentiated, as many of you - with high - sometimes on the other hand, that any disagreements we may have, within our own party and our own parliamentary group dominates on the basis of them many times. You know, harmoniously, we continue our political effort and our political course, unlike you, colleagues of the New Democracy, who create domestic triumphs. I would remind you of Mr. Meimarakis' "funny guys" or Mrs. Papakostas' dismissal because she did not have the right, according to the Chief of Staff, to express her opinion democratically and freely on issues relating to the New Democracy. I would like you to know that our position is hypocritical when you talk about reducing parliamentary allowances, reducing the number of Members of Parliament, reducing the pensions of those who have worked and today receiving more than one pension, and otherwise you do not care about the burden of the state budget, the state corps, when it depends on the functioning and maintenance of the Muslim mosque. We are talking about a burden which reflects and is also further burdened by taxpayers' shoulders. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Of course, as far as those who said that SYRIZA is begging for votes are concerned, I have to tell them that I am surprised that at times the Independent Greeks are being condemned for agreeing with the government partner and sometimes criticized for disagreeing with the government partner, while with him they agree with forces of counter-population. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a comment - let me, Minister - on the fact that Mr Mitsotakis' proposal has been heard concerning the withdrawal of paragraph 2 of Article 5 concerning the Muslim mosque, while our attempt to convince you of this has not been successful and has not been successful. I do not know whether in other such future cases we should invoke Mr Mitsotakis' help and intervention to convince you. However - and I shall end, Madam President - I understand the fact that the SYRIZA-ANEL government coexistence is a source of officer. I'm not gonna cut it. On the contrary, I will strengthen it, reassuranceing our coexistence. You won't make it, gentlemen of the New Democracy, to inspire demons. The maintenance of the political openness of the two partners has been a given fact in the first place. We did not grind into the political mixer ideas, positions and opinions. We're trying to bring together strategies that will get the country and its citizens out of the deadlock.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u401	Mr. Katsiki, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u402	Madam President, give me a minute, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u403	We've said two minutes, Mr. Katsiki, and you've reached six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u404	I've been informed that in my dentistry I'll have four minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u405	You can't do that. This is not a matter of interest to the House. You said that. Don't say it all the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u406	I mean, you mean...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u407	We're talking about the bill here right now. Each party explained its position.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u408	I mean, you're not judging me about the time violation, but why...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u409	Your position is clear. I think everyone understood it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u410	Yes, but do you know something, Madam President? Of course I don't...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u411	Please. We're not having a dialogue now. Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u412	I'd be done if you'd let me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u413	That's what I'm saying. Finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u414	I shall therefore conclude with this epilogue: there are reasonable conclusions in life, but there are also the convenient ones. As I said - and I repeat - the party diversion of our own consistency, that is to say, the consistency with those which, at the time, constitute a permanent political position. In any case, no matter how much it is for the opposition, do not deal with our own cohesion. Take care of your party unity...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u415	You do, Mr. Katsiki. You've been talking seven minutes about this cohesion.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u416	Mr. Katsiki, you're done. Thank you. Here, Mrs. Big Housekeeper, you have the floor. Please respect your time too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u417	I will respect it, Madam President. I don't have much to say. I wish the best for Mr Papademos, and of course we condemn these acts of violence and terrorism. However, I would like to refer to the ANELs. Why is this game of hypocritical still going on? They did not vote for the cohabitation pact. They are not now voting for the mosque, with a law passed since 2006. Hypocrisy to its greatest size! So you want to tell us, Mr. Representative of the ANELs - I do not want to speak with the surnames - that you do not vote because you think that Greece will fall out by paying for the mosque? If I told you that if the mobs were paid, we'd be in danger, would you? And very well did the Minister who raised the matter to check where the donations are to be granted. So what's the reasoning? Would you know where the money comes from? So you've been caught by the flattery now if the state falls out! That's two-faced. You're two-faced for me. I told you before, when you vote for the measures and condemn them, so you have no remorse of conscience! Now you've been caught with the guilt and the state is falling out! Well, let's do this! The Centro Association supports it. Previously - and I will disprove you - I was in the EBEA which had a conference held by the seropositives. Do you know who represented you? He represented you, Mr. Papachristopoulos. Do you know what Mr. Papachristopoulos said? He said: "I will vote in conscience." He said it because he wanted to take the seropositives on his side. However, I did not think at that time to tell him that we do not have a roll-call vote. You did not put a roll-call vote, Mr Minister. Mr Papachristopoulos - there are also the minutes - on the seropositives said: "I shall vote consciously. I shall vote for it." Well, don't make fun of yourself, and don't hide behind your finger. It's not true what you're saying. If the President says to be two hundred MPs, it's because each MP has how many counsellors he has, he has how many poster, he has how many cars, he has how many police officers. That's the thing. The state won't fall because you'll pay the cost. Well, stop the duplex. Admit that, wherever it suits you for your chair, you stay and where it is not of interest, you want to be close to the congregation. Church and state must be separated, and everyone has their word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u418	Mr. Black, do you want the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u419	Yes, Madam President, I need three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u420	You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u421	I will be very brief, Madam President. First of all, I will also strongly condemn the terrorist attack on former Prime Minister Luke Papademos. I would also like us to wish him and his colleagues pass by. On the subject of the bill, the Minister did accept some of our proposals. I only have four points. I just heard Mr. Mitafidis say that since at universities the teachers are voting for the Quaestors, the same thing in schools, teachers are voting for the directors.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u422	He didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u423	That's what you said, Mr. Mitafidis. But you are probably forgetting that in universities there is the constitutionally regulated self-resident, which in schools, of course, does not exist, as is not there in hospitals and other public bodies. The Minister said, in other words, that Law 4009 - the so-called Diamantopoulou Law - is the curse of the universities. Let me say that the curse of universities is not the law of Diamantopoulou, but the party domination that exists and which he tried to fight against. 409. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Partisanism is the one that has become the greenhouses of customerism and transaction. And in this party domination, you, as SYRIZA, have your share as well as the other parties that have dominated over recent years, as well as the extra-parliamentary. Potami, knownly, refuses to create his own student party, knowing very well that academic and party criteria do not converge. Since we had the student elections yesterday - which in the end are the only reason why they are being painted partisanly and the academic map - I would like to make a proposal to you, Minister. There must be student clubs, of course, but student elections must be held with a single vote, where students will vote for persons and not parties. We therefore call on you to bring in such a simple provision in the forthcoming draft law on higher education. And we urge you to dare this as a pragmatic step in the colonization of universities. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Give me one more minute, Madam President. I was pleased to hear the Deputy Minister Baxvanakis say that the teacher is chosen to be in class, table and chalk and not to make the executive until he retired. I am pleased to hear that and I fully agree. And that is why we call on you to show this in practice that you believe in answering the question we have asked since September about how many teachers are out of table and chalk, seconded to parties, MPs, ministries and other bodies. You have not answered this since September - Mr. Friends we had asked this question - and we really do not believe that it is the Cyprus Folder to be held as a secret state secret. And I'm closing with the mosque. The Chief of Officer County made an observation to fund the mosque, that we need to be careful, that we can be absolutely sure that we secure the source and the quality of money and he is right. The legislative improvement has come where paragraph 2 leaves and you restore the old status of Law 3512/2006 of the "Giannakou" law, which, of course, is even more general than this law and does not exclude foreign funding. In particular, it states: ‘The resources of the legal person of private law are distinguished from regular and temporary grants, donations, inheritances, legacy and any form of contributions of natural or legal persons, etc.’. Does that cover us? What does that mean, apart from simply being a communal leverish? Unless you mean that these issues will be dealt with by the Presidential Decree setting out the operating agency of the mosque, which we called for as a Potami to come out of public consultation - and you assured us that it will come out - and there will be some insurance. Because the issue for us is that there should be transparency and control. That is where we are lagging behind in general and not just in the matter of mosques. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u424	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, fifty two students and students and four teachers from the 1st Municipal School of Skiathos. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Also from this step to be expressed as a plenary condemning the attack on the former Prime Minister Lucas Papademos and expressing our wish for 'permanent' to both him and his guard. The Minister has the floor. Minister, how much time do you want? Is that four minutes okay?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u425	With an tolerance of time, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u426	With a tolerance, all right. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u427	Thank you, Madam President. On behalf of the Government to express our support for these difficult times that Mr Papademos is going through. Let me clarify something that has not been clarified, that Mr Papademos is currently the President of the Athens Academy, and therefore the attack on his face is also an attack on one of the highest educational and research institutions in our country. As regards the mosque, in order to avoid any misunderstanding, we continue to think that the provision we have proposed is better than the one that will now apply under the old law, as Mr Mavrotas said. And you know, despite the very radical disagreements we had with Mr Mitsotakis, Mr Mitsotakis is an institutional factor. He asked not to retire, nothing else. He asked us to see it in a framework of understanding. We think it is a responsibility to see it - it is nothing terrible - and we think that we can go through something that will have the agreement of everyone in an upcoming law. Some colleagues here, when we spoke about the decision of the Council of State, deceived a SYRIZA MEP who said to see a little and what minority is saying. Such mockings are dangerous things, because democracy is not the will of the majority, it is how much minority can be protected. In the protection of the minority democracy is played, not in the imposition of will, so in terms of such mockings those who make them very careful and as far as I remember, they were also legalists. Let me now say a few other issues. Mr. Kegeroglu, speaking, made a panorama of all the amazing things that PASOK did. One question: PASOK made the 1982 law for universities and the 2011 law. The 2011 Act not only annulled what the 1982 Act had, but went to universities on a course from which they still have not come together. So it matters when we make the history of our parties to be a little self-criticism and not to be...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u428	Yes, Minister, two laws but twenty years apart.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u429	I'll tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u430	Mr. Constantopoulos, we know that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u431	Firstly, they have no 20 years' difference, they have twenty-nine years. And secondly, because they have such a difference in time, it does not mean that one must be destructive for the university. Where does that come from? So if you're in the middle of another twenty-nine years, you're gonna destroy and whatever's left now? That's not reasonable. Let's go down. There's a pathogen and there's a pathogen in the educational and social issues of this place. Everything must be formulated in a way that is defendable in the courts. Not all things in education can be solved on the basis of what will be cut out and what will not be cut out in court. Ethnic law, unfortunately, is not dominating our educational things at all levels. I consider this to be a great weakness of our educational system. Because the educational system is a very dynamic system and therefore always suffers from these over-regulations. Now, it was discussed why the bill was urgent. Look, the decision of the Council of State made it at the end of March and when various factors of the Representation began to prepare for the legality of the incoming pan-Hellenic examinations, no members of these parties came out to say "Basta, we are not playing with it". It's not a pair of yours. So, a disgusting and irresponsible attitude. We couldn't make it come out in a consultation and continue to exist as well. With this law, no more, it's over. Let's go down. All perfectly legitimate. But what I would like to comment on is this: in the morning, Mr Mitsotakis spoke about schools and spoke about this all over Europe, unfortunately, and it is the privatisation of the public. It is not the establishment of new private schools, it is the strategy of neoliberalism, that it takes the public and turns it into a private one. This must be denounced. Public education cannot today be that part of our education that will be privatised, and that is exactly what was said to us this morning with such a great systematicity. Since this morning there have been words like 'worthiness', 'the worthy', 'the evaluation', and these words have been spoken by those who say 'they are neutral', that they are neutral words. But they are not neutral words. What is worthwhile for some in here is radically different from what is arrogant for some of us. So, do not compile that there is something that is objective, neutral, such as merit, and that is what people are afraid of. No, we just have a different concept of merit. We have another perception of evaluation. We have another perception of who's worthy. And our understanding is about the functioning of the teacher at school. And this function cannot be quantified until its last detail. Teachers with children are a dynamic system and this must be safeguarded. That's what we want to do. I think that from the discussion of these days and in the committees, we have taken a collective step forward. Some remarks from the Opposition were accepted, we understood far more deeply some of the issues we are discussing and go further. In this sense, I think it was an extremely important meeting in the compositions it has brought. Because don't forget, we're reinstated, and we all have to protect her. Do not humiliate the interview again, as has been done for so many decades. Let's protect her. Let us protect the role of the club, where we have tried to distribute the views of parties and trade unions and have not understood what their position is, but generously let the clubs express their opinion and take account of the choice of directors. We are sure that from this complex process our public education will only be won. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u432	The debate on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs is adjourned: "Measures to speed up the government's work on education". Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u433	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u434	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u435	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u436	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u437	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u438	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u439	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u440	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u441	The draft law of the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs: "Measures to speed up the government's work on education" was accepted in principle by a majority. We are entering the vote on the articles and they will be voted on separately. Can Rule 1, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u442	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u443	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u444	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u445	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u446	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u447	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u448	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u449	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u450	Article 1 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Can Article 2, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u451	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u452	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u453	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u454	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u455	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u456	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u457	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u458	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u459	Article 2 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Can Article 3, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u460	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u461	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u462	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u463	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u464	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u465	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u466	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u467	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u468	Article 3 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 4 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u469	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u470	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u471	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u472	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u473	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u474	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u475	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u476	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u477	Article 4 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 5 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u478	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u479	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u480	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u481	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u482	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u483	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u484	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u485	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u486	Article 5 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 6 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u487	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u488	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u489	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u490	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u491	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u492	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u493	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u494	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u495	Article 6 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 7 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u496	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u497	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u498	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u499	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u500	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u501	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u502	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u503	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u504	Article 7 was therefore accepted as being majority. We are entering the vote of the nominee. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u505	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u506	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u507	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u508	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u509	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u510	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u511	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u512	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u513	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. The Bill of the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs: "Measures to speed up the government's work on education" was accepted in principle and in articles. We shall now proceed to the vote on the entire bill. Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u514	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u515	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u516	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u517	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u518	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u519	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u520	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u521	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u522	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the Bill of the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs: "Measures to speed up the government's work on education" was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, in principle, of articles and all, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u523	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u524	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minutes of Thursday 16 March 2017, Monday 27 March 2017 and Tuesday 28 March 2017 have been distributed and the House is asking whether it will ratify them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u525	The minutes of Thursday 16 March 2017, Monday 27 March 2017 and Tuesday 28 March 2017 were therefore validated. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-25-S1-commons.u526	With the consent of the House at 20.28 minutes the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday, May 26, 2017, at 10.00, on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, discussion of current questions.
