ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval of 14/10/2017, the minutes of the IGC of Tuesday, 14 February 2017, with regard to the vote on all the bills:]] 1. ‘Preparation of the Central Customs Convention as regards the allocation of national collection costs retained at the disposal of traditional own resources in the EU budget’. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. ‘Preparation of the Agreement between the Hellenic Republic, the Republic of Albania, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and the European Commission for the Protection and Sustainable Development of the Prespecies Park area’ I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS I would like to inform the House that, from the twenty-two topical questions that were to be debated today, only two will unfortunately be discussed. The remaining twenty shall be postponed, in particular due to a workload or the respective ministers' obligations. We begin with the first with number 466/10/2017, a topical question of the second question of Parliament's Kastoria, New Democracy, Maria Antonio, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the "great exacerbation of the phenomenon of illegal Greekisations of agricultural products". The Minister for Rural Development and Food will answer Mr Evangelos Apostolos. Mrs. Antoniou, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President. To feel, in other words, lucky today when my topical question is being discussed, since there were twenty others not having the luck of parliamentarians coming. However, we go to the essence of the question, because Parliament's parliaments have raised them too many times from the Step of the House as a Qualified Opposition, that unfortunately Parliament is not working, ladies and gentlemen. I would therefore return, Minister, to the issue of illegal Greekisation of agricultural products in my region. Kastoria, a mountainous remote region, with a lot of trouble and sacrifice for farmers has been able to achieve for many years and has certified certain products, such as Castoria beans, as geographical indications, which are protected by Community legislation. Same goes for the Kastoria apples. These are two important products which have been mentioned in many questions I have asked you, Minister. For example, I mention number 8338, which we made with other colleagues in the New Democracy, and after visits we made in these areas and other reports from agricultural cooperatives. There we said that with the phenomenon of illegal Greekism, resulting in the beans and apples produced in our region, which are not sufficient for the needs of the population of Greece, we have the paradox, while we have a smaller amount of beans produced, due to the outbreak of imports from Albania, Kyrgyzstan and Skopje, that Greek producers cannot sell these excellent products. On this major issue, your answer was essentially that you are not doing any checks. So I invite you to answer how you will be able to protect Greek domestic production, Kastoria beans and Kastoria apples. As paradoxical as it may seem, even in apples imports of foreign products, which you know very well that Greek and Greek are being baptized and sold, with all - which we will have the opportunity to discuss, obviously, in dentistry - the results of this insertion. I would ask you to answer what you intend to do and what you have done so far, which is why a major problem is affecting the rural population in my region.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Antonio. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, the question of Hellenism is a very big issue, and I would say that it is time-consuming. To say that we will definitely disappear it is utopia, because it requires border closure. From there on, therefore, the question is whether the necessary checks are being carried out, whether these checks are effective to a certain point, especially for certain products, such as the case of PDOs - you have specifically referred to Castoria beans - and how and through the control procedures of PDOs these conditions are indeed respected. But, from there on, we must also see whether there is cooperation with other ministries in this process. You realise that the Ministry of Rural Development is incapable of having control mechanisms at all places of entry and at all customs. So we need a cooperation that we have already started. Of course what, on the part of the Ministry of Finance in particular, has become known and is being prepared, will be installed - at least starting in October - at five gates of entry in our country, where these phenomena are particularly high, scanning assemblies, so that, beyond the scanning of all the papers - invoices, at the same time, there is a scanning of all the raw materials imported into our country and on the rural area. Are you going to tell me: Will this be effective? To be effective throughout the country's borders, as I have told you, there is no way. There's no such possibility. What we are asking, however, is for farmers to see, too, how they too will be able to contribute with their coexistence in this process. Because, my dear colleague, you need to know that this chain is a link that has to do with the Greek farmer as well. Hellenism helps other things along the way. I don't have to talk about it. We are therefore making more stringent control moves in this direction. For some products we are already preparing to set entry gates for products, so that they cannot be imported into our country from all the gates. For example, within the days we are bringing regulation - a decision that potato from Egypt will be introduced into Piraeus. It will not be imported from other regions and on its way, for example, from Elias until it comes to Piraeus, to change its country of origin. At the same time, you know that the compulsory registration of the country of origin on all milk products packages is already given for consultation within the days. This is also a measure against Greekizations, as will now be applied to the whole of animal production, so that the meat seller can also mention the country of origin of the meat. These are very important interventions. From there on, with the control mechanisms, with the means and the pressure we exert on our side, we are trying, as far as possible, to respond. What the evidence shows is that the checks carried out are constantly increasing. From there on, as you can see, the radical elimination of the phenomenon is not so easy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mrs. Antoniou, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u7	Minister, as I have mentioned in my prototype, the most important reason for the vast extent of the illegal activity of agricultural products is the absence, in essence, of a centralised and reliable control system. The minimum controls carried out are mainly limited to packed products and the epidemics act unnecessarily in outdoors and in other areas, barges and warehouses. The damage to farmers and producers is huge and is not only limited to reducing their income. The consequences are disastrous both for the marketability and the identification of the products. Imported, you know very well that they are illegally baptized as beans and Kastoria apples, is of much lower quality. So our products are also discredited and gradually lose this highest added value as products. As you can see, Minister, the consequences are not only economic. They have to do with public health too. So the danger is enormous when unsuspecting citizens consume products from third countries, without adequate plant health controls, without being tested by plant health checks, and which are imported and sold as Castoria beans. So the danger to both the consumer and Greek citizens is enormous. In spite of all the points I have made to you, Mr Minister, you insist. On the one hand, if you triple the contributions, and on the other hand, you tell me that in 2013, fifty-three checks were carried out. In 2015, twenty-one checks were carried out. Half the controls were reduced. You're telling me this thing, you're not doing any checks. It's your answer. Let her see her again. You haven't read her. Two hundred products were recorded in 2013. In 2015 thirty-seven were recorded. It's your answer, Minister. In spite of all the points we have made to you, in your reply you insist. There are ways. Ask the previous ministers. You have been denounced many times by our rural clubs, who come to see you - they do not know if they arrive to you or to your State Secretary - these issues and they have told you how they can be solved. Obviously, you either don't want to solve them or you can't. So there is no plan, Minister, for how to curb this problem that is plagued by the region, a region - I told you - mountainous, remote, small rural areas, which are doing a lot of work there, locally, to produce these highest value agricultural products. So for the only thing I see, Minister, that you are unfortunately interested in - and I speak as a colleague, as a forestist, since you are a forestist - it is about assigning forest studies, as I see in a question tabled by my fellow Member, Mr Aygeakis. Eventually, that's all you care about. Because I see that he has asked you a question, which he asks why only certain comrades are invited to do so in order to entrust them with studies. You haven't answered, of course. On this subject we will come back, as a Qualified Opposition, to be sure, after you answer us, and we have the documents submitted on how these assignments are to be awarded to 'letters'. So, in fact, Minister, what you are telling me today is that I do not do audits, I cannot make a reliable system to protect Greek farmers, but all I do is give studies to friends, 'logue' forestists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u8	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u9	Honestly, I'm surprised. This is a question which concerns a key issue, a problem of Greekization. I, too, told you that it is a big issue, which wants more than double the control mechanisms that we have. I have said a few proposals on scanning facilities, which we will finally get to that point, to check the situation. I told you cases of compulsory registration...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u10	Scanning doesn't solve the problem, Minister. The traceability solves the problem. Ask the other guys.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u11	It's not that to force...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u12	Please don't interrupt, Mrs. Antonio.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u13	Let me go, please... It is not a simple thing to force industrialists or all those involved in packaging, the processing of products, to report the country of origin of the raw material, the country of packing or to see the consumer where this product comes from and where this product is packed. You didn't do it because you didn't want to collide. We're gonna crash and we're gonna do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u14	This is Community legislation. It's imperative.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u15	Now let's not start saying we're going to be able to set up a guy every ten meters, who's going to check if the bean comes in or if he doesn't get in. You realize that these things cannot be done. So we're doing institutional interventions, and that's where we're going to fight. Now, about what you said about the assignments. It's a very cheap story to give up a minister, because in emergencies he calls people. In all the Ministries there is a list of people who give them 20,000 euros jobs - you understand what these are - EUR 30,000, such jobs, because it is often urgent for a process. I'm telling you about this...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u16	But why themselves and them?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u17	Listen to me, please. Because we know the space...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u18	Don't interrupt, please. Minister, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u19	Do you know how planned the cost of the management grazing plans was when we went to January 2015? It was 4 million euros. Do you know how much we commissioned this process? 400,000 euros. That's what you say.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u20	That's what you say!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u21	At last don't adopt... To our people? I tell you that none of the people you're referring to is ours. There is not even a party approach to those who took the specific business. Ladies and gentlemen, EUR 20,000 jobs have been taken. Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u22	You haven't answered me for the checks.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Before going to the next and last timely question for today, I have a statement to make to this House. The Ministers of Tourism, Economy and Development, as well as the Deputy Minister of Economy and Development submitted a draft law on 15-2-2017: "Following the Agreement on Cooperation in Tourism between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the State of Kuwait". It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. We continue with the fourteenth under number 328/10-1-2017, a topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, concerning the education of applicants. The Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs will answer Mr. Konstantinos Gavroglou. Mr. Delia, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u24	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, today we are focusing on a side of the refugee that I think is of special and special importance, since it concerns children, as it concerns refugees. Among the thousands uprooted by the imperialist wars and the thousands of incarcerated refugees in our country, due to the European Union's policy, with which the Greek Government also agrees, there are some twenty-two thousand refugees. Apart from the other issues relating to the human welfare of refugees, which is in an unacceptable situation in most hospitality centres, the question of education and their overall support, for example psychological reasons, is also important, since what they have been through and what they have seen is not too little. So at the beginning of last September, and after it had been preceded - to remind you here, you were not at the Ministry - a corresponding question for the refugees, which was discussed on 14 July, the government announced in a fascinating manner the establishment of refugee reception and education structures and the original planning of the refugee scheme was - that was at least then the Ministry - for eight hundred sections in forty-six regions. What's the reality today? The children involved in structures are not a thousand. Correct me. Our evidence is from January 10th, because then we tabled the question for the first time. He's talking now, the sixth time. It's too late than never, you'd say. But if that's not the case, tell us how much it is. Minimum structures, minimum sections for children of pre-school age are in operation. As well as few, measured on one hand’s fingers, are the structures directed to children in high school of thirteen to fifteen years old. Let us note here that there are continuous educational movements, even for parallel support in general schools. There are, of course, problems in the infrastructures for the adequacy and functionality of the school buildings that host them, while, as far as we know, there are no funds available to the municipalities for the cleanliness and even the minimum feeding of these children. At the same time, so-called non-governmental organisations are literally perpetuating. We want to ask you this: What measures will you take, Minister, so that all the host structures will finally operate under sole state responsibility? What measures will you take, so that those children, refugees, can also become part of the general schools after the conditions have been met? What measures will you take to create preschool education, education and creative employment areas and within hospitality structures, recruit staff, support the infrastructures and school committees hosting such structures? Also, what measures will you take to get non-governmental organisations directly removed from the ministry to take sole responsibility and, of course, to ensure and take all the measures from public health structures for vaccines, tests, which is necessary not only for these children, but for all children in school? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr. Delis. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mr Delis, for the timely question and the opportunity to present some information which, to some extent, I think will also answer your questions. I would like to make some preliminary remarks on the training of applicants. Indeed, the age numbers of these incredibly afflicted people who come to our place are the ones you have said. We must all accept that the initiative to train, as we have planned, is an unprecedented procedure for our country, within a framework of a slow-moving state mechanism, with its known intrinsic weaknesses. This cannot, of course, be an alibi for the government, but it is a reality and we must discuss the problems within it. The second is the reactions we have had to some, a few schools, but they have received a publicity that they should not have received, but that publicity has feared a lot of citizens. I mean the reaction of the fascist elements that exist in our society against the attempt to train the refugees. Having said this, I should like to say about the excellent work done by the Scientific Committee for the Support of Refugees, whose findings are followed by the Government, and to give some figures. The kids today are about two and a half thousand. You insinuated it, too. Your data is a little older. But we have enough work to do. Let it be clear that they already operate in ninety - four schools a hundred twenty - six sections and have been hired over two hundred fifty, two hundred seventy - four teachers. In addition, we think that there is a very clear practice and the presence of the Ministry of Health, and that is what the whole society will be charged with. In other words, the Ministry with its staff, with its delivery of booklets, has successfully undertaken this work and, as the days go by, I think it is also established in the consciousness of those who had doubts that this will go ahead. There's no way we can back off. I hope, and I hope, that with the money we have secured from the ESRB, which is over 12 million - it is 12 395 000 - we will be able to complete this initiative, an initiative that will only bring to our society good and will obviously relieve a small but important part of the suffering of these people who have been rooted out of the wars in their country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Delia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr President. You have somehow confirmed the numbers. From the twenty-two thousand registered children are currently studying, as you said, two and a half thousand children and from the eight hundred sections that you, your ministry, had announced, operates at the moment a hundred and twenty-six. The conclusion, Minister, is that the project is being implemented with a characteristic delay, is being implemented at the rate of turtle. This governmental flaw, these omissions - I would say - and this sloppyness is being exploited by the fascist criminal organisation of the Golden Dawn, in order to shed its racist poison and cause or cause reactions, which you said have contributed to the delay. We believe that your policy on this issue, as it is implemented at the pace that is being achieved, leaves space and scope for the action of the Golden Dawn and you have a responsibility for this. We would like to supplement on this issue that it is typical that the Ministry of Education's announcement after the events in Perama, which the Nazis of the Golden Dawn were only called ex-Schools, after what happened at this school. Let us say here that, in relation to the education of refugees, a role has been taken on by non-governmental organisations and by the US embassy, setting up training seminars in collaboration with either the Ministry of Education - and I would remind you here that a seminar went to Elia last September - or with municipalities, such as the Municipality of Trikkai. The American embassy, in other words, tries to train teachers to help the refugees. How can anyone say that? The wolf guards the sheep or the killer returns to the crime scene! Let us also show some other aspects, as far as the books chosen are concerned, Minister. You know that most of these children - from the image we have - are illiterate, don't know how to write and read in any language, they only hold the language they speak. They have no reading ability and books require the knowledge of a language. So it is very difficult to teach these children. Many times teachers themselves are acting themselves, trying themselves to create a suitable educational material. It is very common, Minister, that these teachers are moved from structure to general schools. This also contributes to another phenomenon of school leakage. Because just these children need a stable educational environment, when the teacher changes, a lot of them don't go to school the other day, because they don't know what they're going to meet. We'd like you to see this, stop it. Finally, let us say something about those teachers who give their souls and who most of them work nine to twelve hours, up to fifteen hours to get their salaries of EUR 400 to 450. We believe that full-time teachers must finally be made so that the Ministry itself can be dedicated, as we said at the outset, to assume sole responsibility for the training of these refugees, while at the same time ensuring that the problems of the general schools and the Greeks are resolved, that is to say, once all the building problems are solved and the school committees are strengthened. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Mr. Delis. Here, Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u30	I think Mr. Delis left no problem we're dealing with at school. Look, you have developed the issue of our delays - which I accept - and our weaknesses - I said it first - but, please, it is not considered that any delays give the Golden Dawn food. We need to know what we're talking about at least. Unfortunately, here in our country and throughout Europe we have a fascist and nazi phenomenon. Note now: The Communication from the Ministry of Education, which was very careful, since it referred to the Golden Dawn, has also been mentioned in another world, which is indeed extra-school players, without being identified with the Golden Dawn and coming from a whole - it is the result of a set of - fear, which holds - well-meaningly, I would say to you - and to various parents, who do not want to be informed about these issues. So the issue of the reaction to the minimum schools, but which must concern us all, as parties, as a society and as a state, is a complex phenomenon. This reaction is not only from the Golden Dawn, but also from a group of citizens with whom we want to speak, train them and inform them. So that's the one. The second is this. There are indeed issues with non-governmental organisations. Let us not now discuss the status and nature of non-governmental organisations. But don't mess with all the NGOs together. Neither the "Doctors Without Borders" nor the "Doctors of the World" are NGO nor, apparently, the "Red Cross" is NGO nor too many others, who have given their best self on the islands and now. I would therefore ask you not to smack all of them, considering that all NGOs or all volunteers at this time should be accused. I'm coming to the municipalities. I think we should all look into the eyes, all the parties, because the municipalities have a school obligation, and it is not at all clear that they do everything possible to fulfil their obligations. As you know, we did a committee announced by the Prime Minister on Friday to study its education finances from preschool to postgraduate. One of the major problems that this committee needs to face is what happens with the mechanisms of the municipalities in terms of their obligations, that they can face up to maintenance problems and building, when for a large number of these needs they get money from the government. Unfortunately, we have many indications that this money is not going where it should go. Finally, with regard to the issues that you have raised with teachers, we have found a rugged educational system, which cannot function either with the finances that we received - the government, I mean, since 2015 - nor with various pathogens that it has created in the decades. We believe that the situation that has been taking place over the last two years is clearly better, but with too many serious problems, including the issue of assistant teachers. It is a regime that absolutely needs to be changed. It is a regime that we will deal with with the appointments that we will announce, when the time comes, accurately, both in terms of both the number and the procedure. This time he'll be here. It's not for today, but we don't want to talk about air talk. So when this problem is tackled, it will be a great step in normalisation, which, I admit, will take a long time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr. Minister. As I said at the beginning of the sitting, there will not be twenty time-consuming questions, and the two have already been discussed. I will read the ones that will not be discussed. The second question under number 465/10/2017, first question of the Greek MP, Mr Stavros Kalafatis, to the Minister of Economy and Development, on "The port of Thessaloniki, which is once again the victim of the government's manipulations", will not be discussed due to lack of competence. Due to a blockade by the Minister for Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, the following questions will not be discussed: The fourth under number 405/30-1-2017 topical question by MP Grevenes of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Christos Beyala to the Minister of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, on the transition to the digital signal for large parts of the province. The third, with number 462/9-2-2017, topical question by MP II Athens of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdos to the Minister of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, concerning ELTAs and the payment of public debts. The twelfth under number 333/12-1-2017 is a topical question of the second question of the MP Achaias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Theodoros Papatheodorou to the Minister for Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, on the financing of journalists and websites. Due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister of the Interior, the following topical questions will not be discussed: The tenth under number 430/31-1-2017, a topical question by MP II of the Democratic Association of PASOKs - DIMAR Mr. Georgios Arvanitidis to the Minister of the Interior, concerning the significant reduction of firepower in the Regional Unit of Thessaloniki. The third, with number 461/8-2-2017, is the first question of the Athens of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Helen Zarulias to the Minister of the Interior, on the 'terrorist attack by kalashnikov against men of MATs'. The fifth under number 434/2-2-2017 topical question for the second-cycle question of the Athens MP of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Panayotarou to the Minister of the Interior, concerning "anothermal action by Turkish agents and their representatives in Thrace". In view of the impediment of the Minister of the Interior, Mr Panagiotis Skourletis, due to unsuccessful obligations, his following questions of competence will not be discussed: The seventh question, number 367/20-1-2017, is a second question for the Evian MP of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr.Nikolaos Michou to the Minister of the Interior, on the "inadmissible displacement of thirty-six thousand seven hundred sixty-sixteen Greek children from the nurseries". The sixth question under number 469/13-2-2017, first question by MP, Athens, Potamios, George Amyras, to the Minister of Interior, concerning the incineration of the dead in Greece. Because of the impediment of the Minister of Finance, due to a workload, the following questions will not be discussed: The sixth question under number 435/2-2-2017 is the second question of the Athens Parliamentary of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Helen Zaroulias to the Minister of Finance, concerning the "definition of judges in the administration of the Supreme Council". The 15th under number 439/6-2-2017 topical question by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Finance regarding the transfer of PPC users to companies of alternative electricity providers. Due to the impediment of the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, the eighth under number 338/13-1-2017 will not discuss the eighth question of the second cycle of Congressman I Piraeus - Golden Dawn Mr Nicholas Kouzilou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the "perspective of residence of the twenty eight islands that upgrades the national sovereignty and strengthens the sovereign rights of the country". The following questions will not be discussed as a result of a blockade by the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport: The first under number 468/13-2-2017, the first question of the first cycle of the Thessaloniki Radical Left Coalition, Alexandros Triantafylides, to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, concerning the extension of the metro of western Thessaloniki. The fourth under number 470/13-2-2017 is the first question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Vasilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport on the transfer for two more years of the project "Panamomomos - Exantis". Due to the impediment of the Minister for the Environment and Energy, the fifth will not be discussed under number 463/10/10/2017, a top-level question for the first cycle of the Member of Parliament II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, regarding the transfer of PPC's users to companies of alternative power providers. Due to the obstruction of the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Paul Pavlaki, the second question under number 467/10/10/2017 will not be discussed in the second time in the second cycle of the Evia Parliamentary of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr.Nikolaos Michou to the Minister of Health, on the "strengthening blockage of the fulfillment of a term of will that provides for the establishment of an oncological clinic in Chalkida". Due to the obstruction of the Deputy Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, the ninth question of the second cycle of the Parliamentary Attica of the Democratic Association of the PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Friday Christophilopoulou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity will not be discussed, regarding the suspension of the insurance law on blocks, until the injustices caused by its distorting application have been removed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u32	Mr President, the Minister is here. It can be discussed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u33	Will you be patient? I am sorry, but you do not respect the Bureau either. Why are you interrupting?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u34	Because the Minister for Labour is here and the question can be discussed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u35	I'm sorry, did you ask why I didn't give it to you? Sit down and ask for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u36	Good, I'm asking for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u37	Please sit down and let us do our job. Don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u38	Mr President, I ask you to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u39	That's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u40	No behavior, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u41	Would you like to express your objection? I would be very pleased to give you the floor if you wish.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u42	I ask for the floor and you will understand why I ask him. I didn't mean to interrupt you, but this question can be discussed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u43	Let the Bureau finish and he will give you the floor. I didn't deny him. Mercy! So let us calm down and give you the floor to express your objection for a minute. To conclude reading the unscheduled topical questions and I will give you the floor. Eleventh question under number 455/7-2-2017 of the President of the Republic of Heraklion of the PASOK Association - DIMAR Vassilios Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the major problems and unfair charges of high insurance contributions, will not be discussed, due to the stepping-up of the Minister. Nor will the thirteenth question, number 456/7-2-2017, be discussed in the context of a topical question by the Member of Parliament of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning workers and self-employed persons with service reports, to the Minister of Employment, Social Security and Social Solidarity. Finally, we will not discuss the first question by No. 2371/4-1-2017 by the Member of the Republican Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the retrospective insurance of peasant workers who have not been issued. Here, Mrs Christophilopoulou, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Mr President. I'm sorry if I created a problem, but it wasn't my intention. The reason why I interrupted at the time when you tabled my topical question is simple and I explain it to you right now. At the moment it is in the Chamber, given that the debate on the bill will be opened shortly, Minister Ahtsoglou. My own topical and urgent question, therefore, is, of course, its own competence. That was the timely question. So, Mr President, I believe that my question can be debated. Of course, Mr President, on the occasion that you gave me the floor and did not pass one minute, I would like to say that, for a quarter, we hear questions which are not answered. That's something he doesn't have a precedent. Members have always had a problem and we have condemned the cases that the ministers have not come to answer, but what is happening now - and you know that, Mr President, it has been a long time since - it has not really been a precedent. This is the first time! This is indeed the first time! Such a disgrace and contempt for Parliament! The Minister is here and please discuss the topical and urgent question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u45	We are also old Members, Mr President, and it is not just Mrs Christophilopoulou! We have no memory of goldfish, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u46	Has that happened before? You're not embarrassed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u47	Wait a minute, Mr. Barca. We don't have to raise the tons. We'll solve this in a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u48	Good, Mr President, unblock it!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u49	Mrs Christophilopoulou's objection, like most Members, is understandable. If you wish, the House agrees unanimously in this direction. The Conference of Presidents should once again undertake to see this issue and the President should do the right thing. But as far as this question is concerned, yours, Mrs Christophilopoulou, I think you have been informed. Of course you have invoked the presence of the Minister of Labour.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u50	No, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u51	Excuse me, Mrs. Christophilopoulou! He is responsible for answering your question, Mr Petropoulos, who - I did not want to announce it now, so as not to create any negative impressions about him - has suddenly become ill. By the way, we wish him by the way. But you are well aware of the reason for not discussing your topical question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u52	No, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u53	Uh, how, Mrs. Christophilopoulou? Mr. Petropoulos is responsible for answering. I'll explain it to you. If you want, you can understand. If you want again, keep your reservations. I can't convince you. I have to make the corresponding clarifications to both the House and to you, based on what has been said before, have been agreed and have been informed. This is where I think it's over. At this point, ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u54	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the supplementary agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity: "National Register of Loaders, National Register of Private Careers and other provisions". The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 9 February 2017 to hold a single meeting on the principle of articles and amendments. So we start the procedure by giving the floor to the SYRIZA rapporteur, Mr Gregory Stoyannides. Here, Mr Stoyannides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today I am proposing the bill for the National Loader Register and the National Register of Private Social Care Entities, which comes to a vote after a broad interparliamentary agreement reached in committees. The aim of the bill is to reintroduce the institutional framework regarding the occupation of the freighter, but also to reintroduce a class in the field of private social care providers. I am therefore becoming specific with regard to the National Loader Register. In order for my report to be understandable, I summarise what is currently in force, on the basis of the applicable legal framework, as deleted in Article first paragraph IA(7) of Law 4093/2012. With the current framework - which I note is not applicable - (a) in the port areas of Piraeus - Thessaloniki, (b) in loading - landing of agricultural products, (c) in loading - landings in industrial sites, loading operations are carried out by persons registered in a relevant register, which is distinguished in register A and B. Register A contains simple loading operations and register B includes the most dangerous ones. Registering in Register A is done under typical conditions - age, submission of a criminal record and a health certificate - and registration in Register II following the follow-up of a professional training and skills certification programme by the EEAP, and both today registers are common for ports and land. There was an absolute agreement in the committees that under the current regime a number of administrative, interpretative, legal and operational problems have arisen which make it necessary to redefine, in a simple and rational manner, procedures and conditions of registration in the National Loader Register. Suffice it to state that in practice the EOPI training and certification system never worked, while since the adoption of the current legal framework, in 2012, there were no entries in register II beyond the loaders that were already carrying out the profession and which were automatically registered in it. It is also our position that port and land loading is of a different nature, and therefore with regard to dangerous work should be classified in different registers. In addition, we do not believe that experience in this profession should be denounced, which cannot in fact be replaced solely by training. Thus, the draft law goes beyond simplification procedures and substantial changes, conditions for registration in the National Register of Loaders, which provides for a distinction between loading operations by category - port and land - and takes into account practical experience in carrying out highly dangerous loading operations. In short, we would say that the draft law redefined the legal framework for the operation of the National Log of Loaders, on how to provide the freighter services, and on the conditions and procedure for registration in the National Register of Loaders. In particular: (a) the loading and unloading of port and land, and cases which do not fall within the scope of the legislation in question, for which registration is not required in the National Register of Loaders, (b) are excluded, i.e. from the law, as before, the port areas of Piraeus and Thessaloniki, the activities as concessionaires or their providers in port unloading services prior to publication of Law 4093/2012, (c) loading of agricultural and livestock products and (d) loading of goods in industrial production, commercial parks, storage and distribution centres. Loading operations are also specified and specified by the applicable Professional Observatory of Port and Dry Loader by decision of the EEAP, and provision is made for freighters to provide their services either through individual occupations or through groups or loading operations or with a dependent employment relationship. Furthermore, the National Register of Loaders continues to be distinguished to two levels, Register I and Register II, and the standard conditions for registration are specified in Register I. For the first time discrepancy is introduced by category, and so we have Register II - Loaders Ports, Register II - Loaders Dryers and Register II - Work Engine Operator Licence Holders. Furthermore, that provision specifys simple loading operations and defines the content of the specialised loading operations, as well as of dangerous loads. The compulsory registration in register I is defined only for the port. Port and land loading, as I have said, is of a different nature and, in the light of best European practices, it is necessary to differentiate in the register. In order to register in registries, it is required for the port of professional experience of an eighty-sixty-six or ninety-six characters together with training and certification, while for the dry professional experience of eighty-six or forty-six characters together with training and certification. This is an improvement with regard to the old regime which only provided for training, depreciating experience. As I said before, the registration should not be clearly carried out through training. The freighter’s occupation requires practical experience that is not acquired through programs alone. The law to be adopted can be made not only by the EEAS, but also by any other accredited by the National Accreditation System. The training and certification system through EPPI never worked. Since the adoption of the current legal framework in 2012, there have been no entries in the register II. We therefore believe that the provision for accredited bodies other than the EEA will contribute to the implementation of training and certification programmes which have so far not been implemented in the field. Finally, the Register of Certified Port or Dry Loader Loader, register B, in which loaders are registered, who participated in port or land skills training and certification programmes to improve their technical skills and know-how in matters of health and safety of work. In addition, the administrative procedure for registering the shipowners shall be clearly and simply redefined. Any person who fulfils the conditions shall be registered in the National Register of Loaders and may legally pursue the profession, taking into account the relevant certificate to assist the legal requirements for exercising the profession of Loader, which shall be valid for five years with the possibility of renewal. Appropriate provisions are laid down for the adoption of enforceable administrative acts, specifying the detailed rules for the application of the law and providing for transitional provisions. Aiming the bill in the field of loaders is to ensure labour rights and to protect the health and safety of workers in the cargo industry. The removal of administrative and bureaucratic malfunctions and limitations for the national logistics register. The removal of restrictions on access to the profession. Upgrading the skills and skills of freighters by means of specialized and targeted training, which is necessary due to the risk of the profession, but also by exploiting the experience of workers in the sector. The safety of workers and of the public moving in areas where loading is carried out. Upgrading the competitiveness of enterprises in the sectors through the creation of quality and safe jobs. I would like to point out that the operators and, in particular, the employees of the sector have expressed themselves positively for the National Log of Loaders. The federation of workers, in fact, also made a number of requests which, in the vast majority, were accepted by the Minister. As far as the National Register of Private Entities for Social Care is concerned, I mention the following: The bill under discussion falls under the supervision and control of the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, the private entities of non-profit law that provide social care services. Thus, provision is made for the setting-up and operation of the Electronic Social Security Governance (DICA S.A.) National Register of Private Entities Non-profit Character, in which the above entities are required to be registered, in accordance with the specific conditions laid down. Such bodies are under the law, for example, charitable associations, public institutions, civil non-profit companies, non-governmental organisations, recognised by specific legislation, bodies, and the annexes of international non-governmental organisations. Specifically, the information to be provided by the entities when they are registered is specified (identifiers, legal representative data, services provided, number of beneficiaries, number of employees and volunteers, financial data, property, etc.).), and provision is made for the protection of the confidentiality of such data. The authorisation, which, in accordance with specific legislation, is required for the operation of specific bodies, will be subject to the registration of the operator. Otherwise, the licence will not be issued or revoked. Questions relating to the functioning of the Registry are to be settled by a decision of the Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity. The aim of the bill is to monitor more effectively the action of private non-profit bodies providing social care services. In other words, a mapping of the provincial landscape is sought. In our country today, more than a thousand such organizations operate without them including the foundations of the Church. These bodies are subsidized by state money, by the Ministry, by the EEAS and by the regions. A public check is therefore needed. The aim is to collect and record information in order to assess their effectiveness and effectiveness, while the proposed institutional framework strengthens the sound and efficient management of social resources, the coordination of social protection services. Finally, there are some specific provisions in the draft legislation under consideration. In particular, provision is made for fixed-term work contracts to be extended up to 30-9-2017 which expire from 9-2-2017 to 23-5-2017 of ancillary staff serving in the publication of the law in the Centre for the Education and Rehabilitation of Blinds. Secondly, the purpose of the Electronic Governance of Social Security (DICA S.A.) is expanded. by establishing a contract and by providing support for information and communication systems to the Ministries of Labour and Health and for the bodies covered by it. Today it provides its services mainly to social security institutions. Thirdly, it is foreseen for unemployed persons registered in OAED registers engaged in agricultural work for up to seventy days per year to maintain the rights and obligations as registered unemployed persons, with unemployment card holders, subject to the legal announcement of such work to the OAED. Their employment time is not considered to be unemployment and unemployment benefit is not paid for as long as such employment lasts. It is often the case that an unemployed person has occasionally worked on a farm, but prefers that his work should not be announced to the OAED so that he does not lose the rights of unemployment. With this provision, we are dealing with the problem and we are not blind. This is a measure that faces reality, puts a barrier to lawlessness and brings in insurance revenues. Fourthly, the deadline for submission to the OAU by unemployed persons registered in its registers of all training or vocational training programmes that have been followed before the beginning of L.4430/2016 for the maintenance of their follow-up time as counted in their unemployment time and for the retention of the unemployment benefit paid to them for the corresponding period shall be extended until 30-6/2017. Finally, the amendment on school meals is important. There is a serious problem with high-level reports of the risk of poverty and social exclusion of children. Increasingly, phenomena of malnutrition are observed, while, at the same time, our country has a major priority in the problem of obesity, which means bad eating habits. The institution of school meals is an important initiative that we all have to support. Ladies and gentlemen, I close my suggestion, pointing out that these are good public legislation initiatives, as it seems, which demarcate and set order in the areas they regulate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u56	We thank Mr Stoyannides and the consistency in time. Before giving the floor to the rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Katsaniotis, let me make two announcements to this House: Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how the House is organised, thirty-seven students and students and two educational attendants from the 7th Chalkida Municipal School, as well as fifteen students and apprentices and two educational attendants from the Ionian School, who have previously participated in the educational programme of the "Democracy Workshop" organized by the Foundation. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I propose to this House - and I think there is no objection - that after Mr Katsaniotis, who will be given the floor now, the Deputy Minister for Labour, Mrs Antonopoulou, who has asked for the floor for two minutes to make a brief reference to the bill. So, Mrs. Antonopoulou, after Mr. Katsaniotis, you will take the floor. Here, Mr Katsaniotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u57	Ladies and gentlemen, it is very regrettable for Parliament and painful for the country to see that the government which has been managing the fates of this place for two years, on the one hand, has no real development plan and, on the other, is constantly attempting to smuggle it in the form of urgency. I mention these because in the draft legislation that is currently being voted on today, an amendment that, behind its social staff, has a number of problems, even legal, has been put in place, while it is directly entrusting EUR 875 000. To explain: Children's poverty, the need to tackle the food insecurity of pupils, and even the inclusion of a new food culture in schools, are very important assumptions in which no one can remain indifferent or refuse to take action. From the outset, and at the meetings of the Committee on Social Affairs, we have stressed that the provision of school meals is in agreement with us as action, but the amendment creates a strong political and moral problem. While you knew the problem from the outset and obviously had the time to create a complete and legitimate institutional framework, you baptised the 'urgent' amendment and later attempted to include it in the bill under discussion, overcoming any sense of transparency and raising reasonable suspicions that your objective is, of course, not the reinforcement of students, but the vote combined with hundreds of thousands of euros in assignments. We call on you even now to create a strong institutional framework with normal competitive procedures and conditions of absolute transparency, including all Greece, so that the social role of the measure can be properly implemented. Otherwise, it is not only your curiosity and inability, but it is also that you do not hesitate to market the human suffering for the assignments to "one of them". Such thoughts must not be mentioned here, but they are thoughts that you and your creations are causing, dear representatives of the government, who otherwise are so proudly fighting again to complete an assessment that will eventually bring an even heavier account for the Greeks and will deepen even further poverty. As I spoke about the evaluation, let us make it clear: the government has an absolute responsibility to close the review, and the government will be judged by the people on what the agreement will include if it is closed down. However, if he can't close the evaluation, let him open the door to the election. Finally, face your responsibilities once. Stop hiding behind supposedly bad guys and shifting responsibility to others. You are already two years in power and you are judged on your own projects and not on the works of others. The current Minister of Labour and a close associate of the former Minister of Labour is not responsible for the chaos with ECA and for the insurance bill that has caused so much reaction and deregulation in public security? Is it not responsible for the fact that for the first time, flexible forms of employment go beyond stable forms of employment? Is it not responsible for the fact that there has not been a single plan to halt unemployment and create new stable jobs? In any case, ladies and gentlemen of the government, if you want to speak about what you have received and compare them to what you have done, the dates are specific. Tell what you found coming to power in 2015 and where we are today. Finally, say that in 2014 the insurance system had balanced and that, based on a proportionate study by the European Commission and the National Analogue Authority, it had viability by 2060. However, by canceling the agreement then and abandoning planned reforms and structural changes in just two years, you have blown everything up in the air. You opened the insurance policy from a zero base and transferred to it part of the country's budget derailment, amounting to 3.5 billion. You invented the personal difference in order to abolish it. Of course you, not only would cut pensions, but you would even increase them, cut all new pensions from 20% to 25%. You also say that you who broke into your work and part-time clothes, putting the minimum wage back to EUR 751 over two years, over the past two years, have overthrown the correlation between full-time and part-time work, as on your day six out of ten workers have flexible forms of employment. These are your achievements. Only a few sizes that show the size of the cursor, to which the amateurs, monomonies and your ideological claws led. At least, the Greek citizens and especially those who have occasionally been deceived by your many promises and your so-called patriotic 'no' have understood today what we say from the beginning, namely that your world is hosting private initiative and the people of production, hides great misery and great pain for all, especially the weakest. Our world, on the other hand, strengthens entrepreneurship, reduces taxes and creates an attractive climate for investment. Your world is isolates and bankrupt the country and its citizens. Our world is helping to produce new wealth, dividends from which everyone is finally fruited. Our world wants the country's presence in the club of advanced countries, those that you have studied or sent your children to study, such as the half Ministerial Council in England. Because of course, even you recognize the excellence of our world, but your ideological wrestling and the need for political survival does not let you recognise it. Although somewhere - somewhere you recognize it indirectly, as - good time - it happens with this bill, which essentially talks about the continuation of the opening up of the profession of freighters, which, at the time, you said should remain closed. That is why we agree and vote for the bill, which reminds the government of what it said at the time when we opened up the professions. This self-determination of the recent past of the current parliamentary majority is the greatest proof of the political correctness and ideology of the New Democracy. We shall therefore vote in favour of the article on loaders, as we shall vote positively, and on the amendment of the statutes of IDAL, which also, I would remind you, has been established in the new Republic. In this respect, I would just like to stress that the EDICA must be the arm of the public to do things, but not a body that will act as a competitor in the real market. I have nothing more to add. We of course also agree with the National Register of Private Social Care Entities, so that we can have a fuller picture of the institutions, as well as the extension of supplementary staff to the JETs. To conclude, stressing that there is nothing worse for a parliamentary procedure than the government's attempt to use a technical bill, such as today's which brings broad parliamentary acceptance, to a vehicle for transporting blurred amendments. I am sure that this government will not be judged very strictly by the Greek people only for what it has destroyed in the economy and society, but also for its methods towards the social institutions, such as justice and the House itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Mr. Katsaniotis. As I said before, we will give Mrs Antonopoulou the floor for a few minutes. Before you begin, Mrs Antonopoulou, or if you give your order, I would ask those of the Ministers to attend - and I think they are all here - to be placed because we have four ministerial amendments. One has already been submitted during the roll-call meetings. There's another three missing. For these three, therefore, I would ask the ministers successively, one after another, to take the floor to support them. And of course, as you know, there are also four other amendments tabled. We are therefore giving the floor first to Mrs Antonopoulou for three minutes and then to the other ministers to support the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Mr President. I wanted to refer to Article 12, by which we are only making it easier for the citizens, to give them this extension, in order to make it possible to claim their rights, which we abused under Article 57 of Law No 4430/2016 of the C.A.O. law. The regulation we have brought here concerns the unemployed, who decide to develop their skills, taking part in an IEK programme. What was the case was that, despite what was still unemployed, not only the young, but people of different ages who are now changing their profession because of the crisis, went to a project in a public IEK and were no longer considered unemployed. So their unemployment benefit was abolished while they continued to be unemployed and had no access to a job, and their unemployment time was zero. We are therefore bringing this arrangement. And then, in October, when the K.A.O. law was passed, we had given a four-month period to show those who now have this right and retrospectively the OAED to claim their rights. Now, we are extending for another four months - obviously not enough information to all citizens, the procedures are often slow, as you know - so that everyone who falls under this category can have this right. I would also like to refer to Article 11 on the occasional employment of registered unemployed in agricultural work. We withdraw it because we need more regulation. We will come back to a next bill so that the wider regulation can be settled, but there can also be time sufficient for it to be debated during the committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u60	Madam Minister, can you repeat the article that you are withdrawing?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u61	It's Rule 11, which I'm tabling in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, Minister. Mr Stathakis has the floor now on the amendment with a general number of 920 and a special 78 for suppliers of electricity.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u63	That's right, Mr. President. This is the amendment for suppliers of electricity. Since 2012, there has been a provision concerning the relations between the Greek government and the general government and the payment of PPC's accounts. This is Article 58 of Law 4075/2012. So this provision allows the government's current debts to be paid and covered to PPC, we change it in three parts: First, PPC is withdrawn and all suppliers enter. Now the supplier is not only PPC, but a part of the market also has other suppliers. The proposed regulation therefore extends for reasons of equal treatment the possibility of repayment of the general government’s debts to all electricity providers and not only to PPC. Secondly, what remained unclear in the provision on the ability of the Greek State to repay in advance all its debts to the electricity providers, both the dues and the current debts of the respective use. It clarifies this precisely in order to enable the public in agreement to cover, in other words to pay, all the debts it has to the electricity providers. Thirdly, a new subparagraph is added, which was not in place at the time, allowing the Greek State, if it considers it appropriate, to discount service providers this year. That is to say, by taking similar discounts, the State may advance, discount the expenditure for the current year, i.e. in 2017 in advance by means of an agreement and, of course, the amount fixed by the previous uses, so the amount of energy estimated to be consumed by the public authorities in the current year. I'm reminiscing. Three things are being done by the amendment in relation to the previous regulation. Firstly, it expands the range, since there is no longer a monopoly position of PPC, there are private suppliers. Secondly, it clarifies what the current debts it pays are, i.e. the debts that the public now has and can cover them, and thirdly, it introduces for the first time the possibility of discounting this year, the accounts and of offsetting them naturally at the end of the year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Toskas is next. Mr. Toska, you're going to talk about the amendment with a general number of 918 and a special number 76, aren't you? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment concerns the status of five-year-old firefighters in the permanent staff of this House. It's about two thousand ninety-three employees. This amendment is being tabled because so far the existing procedures provided for by Law 3938/2011 have presented problems of a technical and legal nature. There were no arrangements that had to be made in the intervening period. There are concerns about the restrictions on recruitment in the public sector. There is a negotiation procedure at the moment with the institutions for the permanentisation, which can even end in a few days, or very soon, for the transitional period to cover these workers, this transitional provision, which provides for a three-year extension of their term of office, is proposed. It is stated that the time until accession is set to the extent of the firefighter. Issues relating to the possibility of introduction to the production schools of fire extinguishers are identified. Responsibilities shall be assigned to cover the service needs with reasonable financial compensation. This includes the new needs of the Fire Corps that have come from the agreement on the operation of the new airports. Mr President, I would like to ask for two legal corrections to be made. In the middle of the first paragraph, 'new organic positions', the word 'new', I think, is superfluous. At the end of the first page, the words ‘(cases (a) and (b) of subparagraph 2’) shall be inserted.’ I think that these references to parentheses are superfluous. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u66	Put the relevant document on these legislative improvements, which you have just announced, to be distributed to Members as well.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u67	I'm filing it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u68	There's no other Minister now to talk. Let's get to the special speaker...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u69	Mr President, I would like the floor to ask Mr Toska a question about the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u70	Here, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u71	Thank you very much, Mr President. You did very well that all the ministers have raised their questions now to ask them. Mr Minister, you said that the interim arrangements were not made and no other technical issues were dealt with. Why do you bring an amendment now that will perpetuate the problem and you do not bring it this afternoon - we will be here by 17.00 p.m. or 18.00 p.m. - all the arrangements that have not been made and which have to be made? Do you avoid that? Please give a clarification why the world, these firemen, but also the Greek society that listens to and cannot understand, is suffering enough. If there's a legal problem, untie it until afternoon. If there are substantial regulations that have not been made, now to be done today, the National Representation will support them. Why don't you do that?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u72	Minister, do you want the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u73	Yes, Mr. President. Mr. Loverdos, you are well aware that Mr.3839/2011 defined the permanentisation of these officials and Mr.4249 Article 98 of 2014 established immediate recruitment, but no harmonisation of tasks was foreseen, no new organic posts were set up. Basically these people were prisoners for other reasons. These officials have realised that we are initially talking about four thousand employees in the Fire Corps, of which about six hundred, the five-year term has been renewed for all two thousand ninety-three, as I have said, until the conditions for permanentisation are created which we hope will be created very soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u74	We thank the Minister for the clarifications. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, thirty-three students and students and four educational sessions of the Corinth Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The reason is the special speaker of the Golden Dawn, Dimitris Koukoutsis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u75	Thank you, Mr President. Previously on a question between a Minister - I do not remember who the Minister was - and a Member of the JRC has again seen reasons for the golden dawn. I deserve it. I'll get over it. I will not deal with a political fossil, with a political corps, because, as our people say, it is anger: 'The dead man is passing through?' This draft law therefore deals with issues relating to the establishment, operation and registration of the national logistics register and seeks to monitor effectively the action of private non-profit-making bodies providing social care services. Provisions for the functioning of the OAU are also included, as well as arrangements for the unemployed registered in the OAD. Articles 1 to 6 come to correct the hammering resulting from the application of Law 4093/2012, which is known in the medium term, due to the large number of administrative, interpretative, legal and operational problems. It should be recalled that Law 4093/2012 is the second memorandum on a government of Samaras and the proposed and ultimately applied opening of the closed professions and constituted the application of the OECD toolbox directives. The fact that problems arose from the application of the provisions was expected as a result of the rapid adoption of the demands of international loan sharks at the expense of the Greek people. Nevertheless, with these provisions, we do not see a serious, well-considered simplification, at least not on transparent terms. The EGF and EGF may be excluded from the scope, but the port workers employed in them are already certified and will not be faced with any problem. Since the port zones of Piraeus and Thessaloniki already have certification, why not provide the skills certification from the PPA and the PLTH respectively? As a certification body the EEAC, but who are the other accredited bodies from the National Accreditation System, from where do they receive funding? Is it another way to obtain funding through the NSRF private entities? Finally, what will be the process of receiving ISO? However, we must ensure quality of education and ensure that those who receive certification have the guarantees that the work is properly and safely handled. It is of the utmost importance that the training of workers is fully linked to the certification of their skills to avoid accidents and ensure cargo and, of course, to means of transport. In particular, it is appropriate to refer to Article 2(4), in which it is laid down that, in order to register a third-country national covered by Council Directive 2003/5/EC of 25 November 2003, the person concerned may be a Greek citizen, a resident or a citizen of a Member State of the European Union or a third-country national who is covered by the scope of Council Directive 2003/5/EC of 25 November 2003 and who has been granted a residence permit with a right to work. I have asked a question in two committee meetings, and I did not receive a reply. So I'll repeat it once again. In times of crisis and war, the port workers, the loaders, are in custody and implement concrete plans and orders. A third-country foreigner who has completed the necessary hundreds of eighty-eight cuts and has been entered in Register II, in the event of a special consignment, or in the case of loading of ammunition or other materials related to the country's security? So, he's gonna be retired, too? The applicant shall be allowed to register electronically in the national register by supplementing the appropriate fields without the obligation to produce the supporting documents. However, in the case of a check, the applicant and registered in the register must have the necessary supporting documents, if requested, otherwise the audited person shall be deleted and re-approved. Honestly, how likely is this check possible? We live in a country where everything you say. If this proves to be the case, what will the sanctions be? Is it sufficient to delete and resubmit an application? The number of authorising provisions is not limited enough, as only in matters relating to the operation and organisation of the Registry six ministerial or joint ministerial decisions are required. Of course, these are very important issues, such as documents submitted for registration, certification procedures, inspection procedures, details of port and navigation safety, rights, fees, compensation for port administration and exploitation. These are only a part of what is defined according to the relevant Minister, and the decisions will be renewed in line with the political will. The result of this policy is the continuation of the climate of insecurity even in the freighter sector. A National Register of Private Social Care Entities is subsequently recommended to monitor more effectively the action of non-governmental organisations. NGOs have become a direct or indirect regulatory factor in shaping European states and therefore our country's policy, as we have repeatedly pointed out. Pursuant to Article 21(3) of the Constitution, the state ensures that citizens' health and takes specific measures to protect the youth, old age, disability and the care of the most deprived. The constitutional guarantee of respect and protection of the human value and the strengthening of the social state are the foundations of the regulatory framework for people with disabilities, chronic diseases and the elderly. It is an express obligation on the state to plan and ensure the functioning of social life, but also to ensure the best living conditions for these people and not to transfer that obligation to NGOs, particularly to international NGOs, as referred to in Article 7(1). We should also not forget that according to Article 2(8) of L.4430/2016, which refers in particular to the recital in this recital, the vulnerable population groups include, inter alia, economic migrants, refugees and asylum seekers for the pending examination of their request. In particular, it would be useful for the information entered in the register to be available for information to the public and not to be provided only to authorised staff from the Social Integration and Social Cohesion Directorate in order to clear up the blurred landscape around the NGOs and finally to provide transparency in this area. Appropriate responses will be given to their role, action and financing. According to the report by the General Accounting Office of the State from the establishment of that registry, expenditure of EUR 200,000 will be incurred on the already accredited state budget. We are pleased that you have withdrawn this provision of the rural farm shame and of the allowance, because it was a provision that was talking about spending savings, but basically said that someone who receives a 360 euro allowance loses these benefits. Is that a decent income? In general, it is a bill that does not bear any positive elements. With some of his provisions, the legislator is actually trying to correct the distortions of previous laws, but he does not, at least for the benefit of the Greek people and the Greek economy. Others undoubtedly turn against society itself. Finally, it is not necessary for the governing creditors or institutions to legislate against the Greek people. They have adopted at 100% the Memorandum Checks so far and are willing to sacrifice our homeland further, and they have the role of a punishment if someone tries to enrich their poor income due to unemployment, to which they have themselves been obliged. In the amendment, of course, to firefighters, we cannot agree. It's a huge problem in the Fire Corps. There is a lack of staff, etc. It's a millennial thing. It makes sense, then, to help with this provision. It doesn't solve problems, though. We've been talking for three years, five years. At some point, then, these people must also be permanentized, because they are in organic positions, they are in places that they need to be paid immediately. Then we go to Article 13 in school meals, where the amendment was incorporated under number 902/72/7-02-2017. According to the explanatory statement, the proposed regulation establishes the ‘School meals to meet the needs of schoolchildren in primary public education’. The programme will cover about ten thousand pupils at the cost of implementation for the first quarter of the first quarter of EUR 875 000. There is also provision made by the Ministry for the possibility of concluding the contracts in question by way of a derogation from the legislation in force. The elements of household income survey and living conditions, created by ELSTAT in 2015, are used to support the amendment, and on the basis of which the risk of poverty for minor children up to 17 years of age is 26.6%, while the risk of child poverty, that is, the proportion of children living in families on the poverty line is above 34.5%. The paradox, however, is that the government has been using statistics for the past two years and has characterised the consequences of the humanitarian crisis as urgent and unforeseen circumstances. You were supposed to have been elected as a government of social salvation that would pursue a specific policy to halt the humanitarian crisis, stimulate the economy and so on. Unfortunately, now, at the moment we are talking in our home country, we have images of a third-world country and states of the old Eastern bloc in the years of existing socialism, with piles, waiting lists for food, already in first need. All this shows the size of the problem that our country is experiencing today. It is understandable that there are thousands of families living within the limits of poverty. It could therefore be the proposed provision for a positive arrangement for thousands of hungry Greeks. But it is not by chance that this amendment is being tabled and is going to be implemented. In this year's school year, minor illegal immigrants were introduced to the public schools despite the reactions of local communities and parents' associations - and let us say that they are gold and other. We can therefore safely conclude that this support for children through school meals is not due to care for the children of the Greeks, but because of the graciousness and care of illegal immigrants who have ended up in our country. After all, you have shown that you are distinguished by a selective sensitivity which, of course, has nothing to do with the problems of the hard-tested Greek people. We're clear. With this provision, however, an alalum was created with school meals, as you remember, in western Thessaloniki. Featuredly, the local publication and electronic press reported: "In one of the first conferences in the office of Thessaloniki in December, Mr. Tsipras tells the mayors that the provision of meals concerns thirty thousand students from a hundred and fifty-one school of eight municipalities in western Thessaloniki. The Prime Minister's original plan said that the programme would be launched no later than 15 January 2017, as the latter had joined the budget for the current year while the budget was about 11.5 million euros. In fact, Alexis Tsipras tells the heads of local government that the programmes are intended to be undertaken by social cooperatives." And the publications continue: "In a tough language mayors answer Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras for the default of his promise regarding the number of school meals that will eventually be given to students." We're talking about direct assignments and more. However, we will draw your attention to another matter. In your meals you will be careful not to have pork and the mistakes given, to be according to Muslim tradition. You know how it's done without anesthesia, etc. It takes too much attention not to keep these children hungry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u76	Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u77	We won't say what you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u78	The reason for this is the special speaker of the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR Mrs Eve Christophilopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u79	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing the bill on the logbook of shippers, but also on social protection bodies. I would like the Deputy Minister, Mrs Fotou, to inform the House again, as she has done in committee, of the social income of solidarity, the course and problems, Madam Minister, which have been created, because they are very important our fellow citizens, who need it, to take it and, indeed, to take it quickly. And, of course, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, social solidarity will also be sought by traders, engineers, professionals, self-employed, because the market is squeezing, Madam Minister, from excessive contributions, from a literal confiscation of the incomes of this class of entrepreneurs, the self-employed, traders, engineers and doctors. And I'm talking about middle-class people, about ordinary people, about people, who have a small U.N., an E.N. And they are heterogeneous partners, for people of the party as well as of creation. So the neighborhood merchant will get a social solidarity allowance in the way you take it, because his monthly contributions to the OAU - the former OAU, the EPCA - are now three times greater. They can't stand it! They close books every day! And of course, Minister, my timely question also had another part, because I will start with it because you are here and I expect you to reply. It also had the part of your effort, as you told us in the committee - because we discussed it in this committee - those self-employed in blocks. Look, ladies and gentlemen, this is a time-consuming problem, an existing and pre-crisis, which has case-law from the Greek courts, that is to say, trying to separate those blocks, those works contracts that are falsified and which hide a real job - which is work and not work and service - and those blocks that are real blocks. For example, an architect has made a home here in Athens and made some maisonettes on an island. So there's a difference. The Greek courts have a number of criteria. What did the government do, ladies and gentlemen? By the Katorugalou law he tried to galvanise and say that, "I will solve the problem and support the employees with blocks that are real workers". But your intentions are quite the opposite. And they end up in the opposite place, Minister, because instead of taking the criterion of addiction or non-working and working on it, your predecessor has taken indiscriminately - and this House has legislated by a majority - only the criterion of one or more employers, I will say, because basically employers are when it is false. What ended up? He ended up in a weight orchid for the employee himself with a block. Why? Because he or she is being called upon to bear the burden of proof. She comes out front and she suffers extortion, the threat to employers. Can the Ministry of Labour tell us today how many blocks have been blocked? How many activities have they closed down? How many resources does the public insurance system lose from this ridiculous arrangement, brought in, all three circulars, the successive ones, which are incomplete? And because, as I said, the market is narrowing, and because we do not just want to denounce and demonstrate unacceptable and dangerous legislation and administrative acts, we have proposals, Minister. Here's Rhodes! Do you, at least, intend to bring in a debt freeze up to 31-12-2016 for two years? Mr. Prime Minister at the IGC had said of the delays. It's forgotten, too. I fell for a feather! As usual, Mr. Tsipras has gotten used to us in a lot of such things, saying and getting over it. It's his delusion. Do you intend, Minister, to re-enter those who have lost the hundred-dollar arrangement and to give insurance and information, as long as they have paid their current contributions, so that people can withstand and not close other small businesses, so that there is no further unemployment? Also, for the over sixty-seven-year-old traders and self-employed who cannot receive a pension today, why do they owe part of their debts, do you intend to bring about regulation? We can do it for you, but you can bring it. You're government right now. So do you intend to bring in a regulation for these people - I say - over the sixty-seven years old, who have not paid contributions over the last few years and are not entitled to a pension so that they have at least one proportional pension for the contributions they have paid? Perhaps a dealer who has worked thirty - five, thirty - seven years, for the first twenty - eight, thirty years he has normally paid his contributions and then failed man because of a crisis, etc. Now, can you make it easier for this man and instead of telling him 'you don't get any pension', say 'take the pension for those twenty-eight or thirty-years'? Get a place to retire. These are, therefore, basic proposals, Minister. The market is squeezing. People can't stand it. Pensioners are waiting for months to get their pensions, because pensions are being delayed all the time. So we invite you from this Step forward to take the relevant initiatives. And we already have proposals for you. I come now, ladies and gentlemen, to the bill itself, in which the Democratic Reconciliation has contributed with proposals and opinions to the committee, and for which we have to say: With regard to the first Articles, namely Chapter I, for the National Register of Landers, we consider the improvements made to the previous status of 2012 to be positive. When we hear the views of the federation and the representatives of unions that came to committee, we believe that the improvements and what the Ministry accepted, namely the Minister, are in the right direction from what the workers have proposed. It is good, therefore, that apart from the EEA, we also have the National Accreditation System in the certification of landowners. There is also a positive step in the electronic dimension of the registry and participation in it, as well as the divisions that are taking place, which is another small step in rationalisation. Because when the 2012 Act was implemented - and that is why there needs to be continuity of the laws, not supposedly the first time - it had problems. The current arrangements are coming to improve some of them. We have no reason to vote against and we do not vote against because the government and we are opposition. As far as Chapter II is concerned, however, which has also been discussed in committee, I would like to clarify our position. Madam Minister, Mrs Fotou, there was the Register of Certified Bodies - and there is still - the EPC, the National Centre for Social Solidarity. These bodies, ladies and gentlemen, are the certified social protection bodies, which can have funding, either through the NRP or other resources, to do joint projects, to provide support to vulnerable groups. There are different categories of such solidarity bodies. We believe that this National Certification Register should be maintained and improved, and I am further than you think, since you have governance today. Today, with this bill, a registration is being created in a new register, which has more subcategories and gives some more information. But I would once again like to make it clear about this registration through HICP that they are going to work and not one body should go to the EKKA to submit information, but also to the HICP. In other words, this information will be submitted once and for all. I also want you to make it clear why there must be both and assure us that under no circumstances will a certified body be able to obtain certification through registration. Because, correctly in the repealed provisions, there is no abolition of the certification in force in the country under a 1998 law. You're right to keep it. We therefore want you to assure us that the status of certified bodies will remain so. We also want you to assure us that the provision we brought in 2014 - you also voted for it, almost the whole House - which concerns the transparency of NGOs, the obligation of NGOs, who take over EUR 3,000 public money, to post the figures of their expenditure to the 'DENMARK' and, if they do not post them, not to be entitled to any further state funding. I would also like to say that registration, as these things are clear, is a more information bank on what NGOs are and what they provide. It is a household - let me say this - a set-up, a rationalisation, which we cannot object to, as I understand it well, Minister, that this is your intention. For Article 8, the extension of the CECT subsidiary staff, we have absolutely no objection. We consider it positive. For Article 10, with the assurances given and the legislative amendment that has been made, we also have a positive direction. We regret that Article 11 has been withdrawn. As we have told you in committee, we intended to vote on it because it improves the existing arrangements that we have brought on agricultural land. In fact, we have already been positive to that by the committee. I don't know why he's retired. Although Mrs. Antonopoulou is gone, it's really a shame she's withdrawn. I would - if you can - and within the day make some improvements and bring the article. I'm saying it's a pity that the article left. I now come to the big issue of school meals, because it is a big issue from many dimensions and from the child poverty which has unfortunately increased. I said next time you and the kids would stop fainting, because before you told us that the kids are fainting and asking us what's going on. But I am opposed to that. So, in school meals, we are basically saying 'yes' and, indeed, regardless of crisis, but for reasons of eating habits. I think most parties have placed themselves positive for the institution. We've started it. It had already started piloting in the past and with some results through TEVA. But forgiveness for direct assignment and 800,000 euros cannot be given. And because it would be a pity to say that we are in agreement with school and not to vote, we have sat, Minister, and we have done a job of law-making, because we understand what you're saying, that there is no time. We understand that. Indeed, there is no time. So the solution for us - I will testify, you will get it in writing, and please warmly until we are done, see the legislative improvements - is to go through municipalities for this quarter and in the meantime run the international competition. But it should go with the provisions, not through the municipalities directly. Let's see what we're talking about. So the competition should take place through the municipalities for the first three months, ladies and gentlemen, where the sums are smaller - the procedures envisaged are not so long - and in the meantime, the Ministry will have to open the tender. That's how it's going to be all right. Take a look at it, too, please. I am making these legislative improvements for the Minutes on our part. [[At this point the honourable Member, Mrs Christophilopoulou, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In conclusion, I should like to refer to the story of firefighters, Mr Minister, because you have told us here - and I want to be good at it - that there are problems. I wonder: Two years now couldn't these fire-extinguishers' seats have been established? If you had the will, Minister, it could have already been done, because the law is 2011. The Minister was in Mr. Begliti's office at the time. He knows the law of 2011, the Minister very well from the media. I would like to ask why this has not been done for two years? You've been in power for two years. You come and tell us there's no time. Our parliamentary representative, Mr. Loverdos, tells you that we can even now, even today, see what we can do to help us all and bring what you need to bring and end the matter under the 2011 law. You can't make fun of these people. They're firefighters, you know. I respect all the jobs, but there are some jobs, some functions, which are for the benefit of the community as a whole. And one of these is the function of the firefighter, because it's not a simple profession, like the doctor's, it's a rescuer. So I would also like to appeal after Mr Loverdos to see what Mr Toskas will do and to resolve the matter today. Firefighters can't be hampered anymore. On the articles, while you have a positive vote at first, we will be placed at the end of the procedure. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u80	We continue by giving the floor to the special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Manolis Synchronakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u81	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the co-management of SYRIZA - ANEL by this draft law seeks, as stated in its most important provisions, firstly, in the first chapter, Articles 1 to 6, the redefinition of procedures and conditions for registration in the National Register of Port and Drought Loaders, secondly, in the second chapter, Article 7, the registration and monitoring of actions by private non-profit-making bodies, providing social care services through the establishment of a National Register and, thirdly, in Article 10, in the second chapter, the amendment of its Statute “DICA S.A.”, which, in the interests of the public interest, says, will extend its activities to all the support projects of the Ministry of Labour and Health and all the supervised bodies. They may appear to be inappropriate provisions with each other, but it is very important for the JRC to understand and demonstrate their relationship with the pursuits of the Government, the European Union and the business groups, that is, the completion of the necessary adjustments, the necessary anti-competitive arrangements that the European Union and the OECD have chosen on behalf of the capital, which are included in the memoranda that you have voted for and implemented all of you regardless of who is in government power or not. That is why we are voting 'no' at the beginning of the bill. With regard to the first chapter on freighters, in Articles 1 to 6, we vote 'no', because, first of all, it is important that the occupation of loading, whether on land or on ports, where thousands of workers, self-employed and small professionals have been employed, as early as 2012 with the OECD directives, has entered the so-called liberalisation of the professions. The real objective is to concentrate on larger business shapes of business pie and profits based on the European Union 2020 strategy to enhance the competitiveness and profitability of monopolistic groups. It is, moreover, the fifth of the Bolkestein Directive, of this infamous directive, which may now have taken other names, but is actually being implemented. Does there have to be a register to ensure formal and substantive conditions for the occupation of shippers in dangerous operations and loads and the corresponding supervision rules? Undoubtedly, yes. However, these provisions, on the pretext of resolving these chronic problems, come to work helpfully in the pursuit of business groups in the field of containers, such as 'COSCO' in the port of Piraeus, to gather into their hands all the movement of containers, to control the entire turnover of labour market with cheap workers without rights, conditions of fame, terrorism in the workplace, free of hunger wages, circumvention of daily working hours, and without controls and security measures. In the context of the pursuits of the bourgeoisie and capital to upgrade Greece as an international transit centre for goods, energy resources and persons from Asia to Europe and the upgrading of its role in the Southeast Mediterranean region and its share by the imperialist premise at the expense of the peoples is to change the entire current legal and institutional framework, which was, and remains, "false dogs" with the guilds and barons. Clearing is done not because the European Union, your governments and capital is interested in the safety of workers, the risk of the profession, but because it is the new legal and institutional framework - a basis on which all their projects will function and implement. Here your pursuit is the ports with all their activities in shipping, portwork, ship repair, to be economic zones, without any workers, insurance, trade union rights and with the special tax arrangements for businesses, as is the case today in 'COSCO'. With your policy you facilitate SPA S.A., in general the monopolies at the PPA S.A. and the "OLTH S.A.", as well as at the other twelve ports of the country. Therefore, benefiting from the business groups, the workers are affected, the self-employed, who will disappear either from a register or do not exist, because the ultimate objective is to serve competitiveness and the profitability of capital, and this can be achieved through a reduction in the price of labour, through the squeeze of workers, through the heavy hit on their labour conquests, their socio-security rights. More specifically, the draft law excludes workers from the integration into the Register of Loaders in the port areas of Piraeus and Thessaloniki. You told us, Minister, in the Committee on Social Affairs that 'COSCO' is better working conditions because they are dependent on work and have a stable employer. Really? Do you not know what is happening right now in the ports of the country, in the port of Piraeus, and you are also a Minister of Labour? Where does it turn out that those working with a dependent job are not in breach of working hours, are the working conditions and safety conditions not being violated? The working jungle has been completely imposed. Workers are hired by contractors - 'Workers' - and they are made as easily as possible if they protest against medieval labour relations. There are no working regulations. There is a systematic absence of the Labour Inspectorate. In other words, the law of night is being enforced at the port. It's turned into a vast Dachau. Also, the fact that they are not registered in the National Register means first of all that they are not certified. Who will ensure the safety of the worker and who will be supervised? The employer, 'COSCO', public limited companies and business groups. No, it is not absurd, it is the faithful service of the interests of business groups that this government, like the previous ones, does. At the same time, the employer is given the opportunity not to establish by collective agreements the rules on loading and unloading, as would otherwise be the case, if they were not excluded, so that they would not be required to sign a collective agreement. You thus facilitate the employer to apply the same occupational status to the employees of the Piraeus Port Authority after the end of the collective agreement, which is in force until May 2017, but also to the employees of the Port Authority of Thessaloniki, where the scheme is the same. You also say that the socio-security protection of shipowners is governed by the legislation of the IKA - EBRD and these regulations for shipowners. While the IKA - EBRD regulation clearly states that the loaders are part of heavy and unhealthy, with the exception of the specific bill relating to Piraeus and Thessaloniki, the three hundred fifty workers on the '2' and '3' platforms as port workers are not covered in insurance with heavy and unhealthy health. Only operators and drivers due to their diplomas are covered. As far as the PPA and EGF workers are concerned, so far they have been covered with heavy and unhealthy insurance, but there is a risk that the Piraeus port may be excluded as well. Finally, in relation to regular and extraordinary checks by the APRC, measures to prevent, health, safety and health protection of cargo-loaders and public health due to the exception cannot be applied in the port areas concerned, thereby enabling the employer to determine all the above. Furthermore, in this draft law, the specific provisions of Article 1 are excluded, except for the port of Piraeus and Thessaloniki, legal persons of all kinds, concessionaires, loading and unloading services providers and large undertakings in the compost industry, industrial production, business parks. In other words, capital is unavoidable and workers continue with the same inhuman working conditions, exhausting hours, redundancy, no protection measures. Finally, the need for certification for specialized and dangerous work is also converted into a commodity, since the free state certification for you is a sin! The existing Vocational Training Centres or the ones that will grow like mushrooms across the country will only have one goal: to mobilise funding through the NSRP - provided in the bill - to put the worker in a deep pocket and to ensure the certification and the recertification that will take place every five years. For all this, then, we are voting negatively on Articles 1 to 6. In Chapter II for the National Register of Private Social Care Entities, in Article 7 we are voting'residents'. Why? There is a mess with all these bodies. You should record them. The point is to record them, even if you fly out of the register those who do not meet the conditions for existence and action? The question we as a JRC raise is what their operation and action is intended to do. This is a prerequisite for going to the next step, if you really need or don't have to go to a register. Let's not be fooled. Through the drafting of the National Register of Private Social Care Entities, it is intended to make clear which NGOs will remain and who will leave, in order to some - which ones? - to benefit from oblivious financing through European Union programmes, or state funding, by replacing the state structures and services which close, subordinate or privatise. And the NGO is being slaughtered! There have been so many, competition has become so big, but the pie of funding is very specific. Some of them stay and some of them have to go. The experience of NGOs in refugees, municipal structures, welfare, culture and elsewhere is now revealing their role. The National Register, therefore, with the recording of private bodies providing social care services, is, as is acknowledged in the explanatory statement, a tool for the more effective implementation and control of the government's anti-popular welfare policy. It further limits the State's responsibility for the development of these units and at the same time strengthens the private sector. It cuts benefits and links them more and more to direct payments and to the insurance system on the basis of remuneration. On the other hand, the JRC speaks of social care units across all the social structures whose services must be developed, managed and financed by the State itself. In Article 8, which provides for the extension of the term of office of the ancillary staff of the Education and Rehabilitation Centre until 30 September 2017, we shall vote ‘yes’. We are putting the objection on which you have not so far raised on the issue of budget expenditure, which will probably result in some subsidiary not being included in this measure if the CRL does not have the corresponding heading from its budget. The Government must commit to state funding in order to meet all the needs and prolongation of ancillary staff contracts. Article 10, which deals with HRR, is to be voted against. We reported in detail. It's an anonymous company. We voted against it and when there was the relevant law in 2007. This company operates on the basis of profit, which appears in the bill and the amendment of the statutes. It conducts competitions, studies, management and maintenance of computer systems within and outside Greece to natural and legal persons of the public. I don't want to say any more. If anything comes up in the course, we'll be placed. In relation to Article 12, which provides for the extension of the time-limit of unemployed registered OADs participating in the training or vocational training programme until 30 June 2017, we say ‘yes’. We were fighting that, too. On the basis of the above, therefore, the JRC is voting in favour of the principle. We shall vote 'yes' on the amendment to school meals, although they do not cover all needs. After two years the government comes in and says: "Ten thousands of meals and more than seventy thousand meals", when seven hundred thousand children in Greece are undernourished, although the JRC had tabled a specific amendment to cover all primary and secondary children, and then the government refused the amendment tabled by the JRC. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Allow me a little, Mr President, and I shall conclude. The amendment that comes with regard to firefighters will not be voted on. And not only will we not vote on it, but we will call on the government and the Minister to withdraw it. This is an exercise of legislative deception. And what's the pretext? The technical and legal implications. When we do not want to perpetuate ourselves, when we do not want to defend something, we find legislative and institutional impediments at a time. The three-year period, which will ensure, if voted, three more years, and not permanentity of course, is in the air, since the three ministers with an act of cabinet will be able to further reduce their time of stay in the Firehouse. In view of this impunity on the part of the Government, therefore, the JRC has tabled an amendment to the simulation of fire extinguishers, taking into account the expanded powers of the Fire Force, coupled with the great lack of staff existing in its ranks, the consequence of the abolition of four thousand organic positions with Law 3938/2011 and the growing retirements, and make it imperative to cover the thousands of empty posts that arise for the real needs of staff. With data, therefore, the major problems in the safety of the country and, above all, the lack of staff, the JRC tables this amendment in order to ensure stable working relationships for all five-year obligation firefighters, as well as contracted firefighters. The rest of the parties will be invited here to take a stand against this constant hostage and to devaluate those workers who even give their lives in order to protect the forests, the entire country. With these few words, I am done, Mr President. We have said that, in principle, we are also voting against the other amendments, and we will be voting later on them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u82	Good, Mr. Covenant. Before giving the floor to the next special speaker, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, twenty students and students and three educational sessions from the Kanda School. We welcome you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The reason is the special speaker of the Independent Greeks, Athanasios Papachristopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u83	Thank you, Mr President. Because the news is, I believe, that it cannot leave us indifferent, and because I believe that we all live in historical moments here, I want to repeat a few things that have happened in the last few days before I actually come to the point of the bill. Let me remind you that Olivier Blanchar, a man who was a senior executive in the IMF in 2010, is being justified today by his own article, and he admits that this programme was never coming out. Then Dominique Stroe Khan also pleaded for those who remember it. For the first time, Paul Thompsen - who I do not think is sympathetic to anyone in the Greek Parliament - admits that there may indeed be greater pessimism - calls them pessimism - and we are prepared to change it if we have all the facts. Two days ago Christine Lagard for the first time after several years confessed that the public debt without haircut could be sustainable, which she had never said. I still want to remind you of something that made a great impression. An unintentional enemy of the Greek Government, Manfred Werner, yesterday in the European Parliament, confessed - I do not know if he had a self-criticism dose - that, yes, the program can be done without the IMF. I don't want to invoke Moscovisi's visit here. I believe that he is making a very honest and clean effort, but also his Prime Minister, Bernar Kaznev, yesterday said that the country should stay in the eurozone at all costs. Also, Thomas Vizer, the man who is EuroWorking Group's chief, said it would be a great deal of damage for the country to leave the Eurozone right now. Grexit is not only wrong, but it is impossible. I could invoke too many elements, such as reminiscent of Gabriel's statements, which he said by name to Mr Shoeble that 'do not insist, it is a mistake to do what you are doing'. Let me even say Schultz's statements that whoever insists on Grexit wants to dismantle the Eurozone. I say all this because I believe that climate has changed and we are all in agony, no one is in peace. I would like to believe, however, positively that, if it is not solved on 20 February, a strong message will perhaps be given for an extraordinary Eurogroup before 9 March, where Draghi really wants me to think he has good will. It was also a slap in the decision against Siomple, who wanted to replace the Community with the ESM. The whole juncture shows that probably the big 'blue', Mr. Shoeble, is isolated at the moment. He's staying to see it. Not long words. But I cannot help talking about the attitude taken by the three New Democracy MEPs, unlike all the parties in the democratic arch, who took a positive stand. Criticizing isn't bad. It's good. So it's the greatness of democracy. Stiming, however, certain moments forbid it at some point. It was not a good impression that the report by the three New Democracy MEPs, and it also did not make a good impression - if I may say so - after the meeting of the Chief of Staff, the third institution in the country, which almost said nothing about what was distributed between him and Mr Soible. I'm just recording them, and I think that a large part of the very same officer's opposition does not share this tactic. It's my assessment. I might be wrong. Dismiss it. As far as the bill is concerned, I think it is a tangible proof that it has been discussed in a lot of detail - I would say - in both committees and bodies and everything. Although I do not like to repeat myself, I would like to remind you again here in plenary that the 'closed' occupation of freighters had to end once. I do not want to mention examples of what has happened before. It's been a pleasure making an effort. I have listened very respectfully to views and objections. I think, however, that there is at least no great objection to this and that should be done and we have seen it. But I want to focus more on the second issue, because I have lived it closely. I remember that the NGOs once grow like mushrooms only to get the grant from the HR and from the European Union. This has to stop. Article 7 makes quite clear, perhaps not everything, but it clears too much and is in the right direction. I would also like to highlight the fact that e-government is entering both the loaders and the control of NGOs. It's a step forward. I am one of those who believed and believe - and I continue to believe and will always say it as tiring as I am - that e-government opens up the great door to development and all the ministries, all the ministers - there is no Minister that is not confused with this story - to adapt slowly. It is good to recall the example of Estonia, a country that did not exist twenty-five years ago, which runs at a terrible rate of growth and has done e-government. As far as the two amendments are concerned, I believe that some people from them have renewed their contracts not two or three, but ten years! I'm talking about firemen. I think the government is right and after three years of renewal it makes them permanent. Let's not say again about the piles in the schools. I would like to stop here and remind you that the social state is a prerequisite, especially in a country in crisis and where a huge effort is being made for the first time. You may not agree with my view, but the social state was abandoned. There is this philosophy that says that on the altar of profit and money we do not care. I'll say again, no matter how timid I get, eight tycoons have assets as much as the poorest three and a half billion on the planet. That's not injustice, it's perversion. It can't be done. Any government, therefore, which is fundamentally serious and sees reality, must not let that happen. When we leave large pieces, as happened in the countries of the East, then we have a question as to where terrorism or terrorist acts are due. Orders were put by the greats then there. One man arranged and the others were thrown into the trash. How long would these people last to be dead? A man who has visited all these countries is speaking to you. How much would that story go? So, in Syria right now, why should this thing be there? Why should an entire continent be upset, Europe, and we also have immigration? Because some must have won from the guns, from the oil, from the directed reconstruction. It's a long story to focus on the social state. I am pleased - and I commend it - that this particular government is making a great deal of effort in this direction and we must all support them. I don't want to say any more. We Independent Greeks are positive towards the whole philosophy of the bill and all the amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u84	The floor is given by the Special Rapporteur of the Association of Central Banks, Mr Theodora Megalo-Economist.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u85	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we are talking primarily about the issue of the certification and organization of the freighter's occupation. This professional category is of paramount importance to our country. Firstly, one of our main objectives should be to highlight, improve and exploit the ports of the country, as our geographical position is an important advantage that we have not fully exploited as we should. It is therefore of particular importance that the proper, functional and well-established organization of the freighter's occupation be carried out. To date, the legal status contained in Law 4093/2012, as well as a large number of joint ministerial decisions, have regulated both the documents required for the exercise of that profession and the relevant labour regulations. However, what has been the case so far has generally proved to be inadequate and extremely difficult. There was, therefore, a real need to change and, above all, to simplify these procedures. In fact, today's bill forms a more practical system for what is involved in this profession. Two registers are provided for and the conditions for registration in these two registers, both in Register I and in Register II, are specified. One of the conditions for registration in registries II is the proven professional experience, since one has the required number of posts, as well as the follow-up of the relevant vocational training programme. All of this I think is necessary to establish that someone has the minimum qualifications to carry out the work of the loader. However, beyond the creation of an easy-to-use system, the most important and essential thing is that load safety is ensured. At this point it is of paramount importance that the loader’s skills be certified. The certification by the EEAA or any other appropriate accredited body must fulfil all the conditions and cover all the guarantees. However, the persons who ultimately practice this profession should be sufficiently competent for this work, which - I stress again - has particular features and is a daily health risk, even for the lives of people working in this area. Moreover, it is no coincidence that this profession belongs to heavy and unhealthy. However, I would like to stress that Article 4 provides for a large number of joint ministerial decisions by too many ministers to regulate individual issues. Therefore, no matter how much we accept that Chapter I of the Bill simplifies the procedures, the content of all these decisions will finally determine whether there will again be problems of interpretation and difficulty in the application of the new provisions. In any case, all these issues which will be dealt with by the ministers are very serious and once again left to be regulated by the government, rather than a consultation and debate with all the Members of this Parliament. And this practice may have been followed by the previous law, but that does not mean that it is necessary to continue today and to give the ministers irrational and white-collar powers, without having a joint consultation. Therefore, on the basis of the fact that the freighters themselves supported the changes that are coming under the current bill, the Central Association is in agreement with most of the provisions laid down in Chapter I of the bill, but with reservations, Minister, as to what is provided for in Article 4. As far as the National Register of Private Entities for Social Care is concerned, I would like to say that it is absolutely essential to create an even dubious legal framework for the registration of non-governmental organisations and other charitable organisations operating in the country. The National Register of Private Social Care Entities is the first step towards elementary NGO control. I think that this legislative initiative is quite late, too. Especially in recent years with the strong refugee flows we have had to our homeland, non-governmental organisations have increased dramatically. Of course, we must not forget that these organisations manage millions of euros in order to support refugees and immigrants coming home. As it is expected, when we talk about such large amounts of funding, there will obviously be some who will rush to exploit this situation suspiciously. In fact, yesterday in the press, we saw similar reports on the possible smuggling of money from some NGOs, without producing the work that should be done. All this, of course, will be dealt with by justice. However, such rumours or even real incidents give a sense of immunity to NGOs and cause strong distrust among citizens and, of course, weaken the serious work they offer some good NGOs and the valuable services they offer with the aim of serving their social objective. I therefore consider that in the first phase the recording of NGO data and economic data is absolutely essential. Furthermore, I think that it is not enough simply to update the register for any changes in real time, as stated in the bill. A strictly defined time must be set. I suggest within forty-eight hours. The phrase 'actual time', which you say, Minister, is vague and is capable of many interpretations. If you put them in a specified period of time, they will be obliged within forty-eight hours to register, and so they may waste money and not register. In relation to the new regulations on electronic insurance governance now. First of all, to date, HICP has done a great deal of work in computing a lot of data and limiting bureaucracy to the issues in which it is used. Many programmes are implemented more quickly and easier for citizens through HICP, social security issues in particular. It is therefore important and welcome to extend its operation in cooperation with ministries and institutions. If we need something at the level of organisation in the public sector, that is definitely electronic recording for direct access to information. However, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that many questions and doubts have been found - I rightly believe - on how the conclusion of contracts and the collection of an IRR's remuneration with legal persons from abroad will work in practice. Indeed, on this point, Minister, the wording of Article 10 has improved, which you said only to legal persons from a foreign State. But let me again have some reservations. On the one hand, I do not understand why it is so urgent that the IGC should be linked to the public of other states and, on the other hand - and more importantly - it is that the provision, as it comes to, remains in general terms in its wording, since we do not forget that, in fact, we are debating the delivery of sensitive personal data of Greek citizens to public services of foreign countries. I think that this provision should be described in detail. We cannot provide personal data from Greek citizens to foreign states. It's a little drawn. You need to clarify or limit it, give us an accurate description of what will happen, so there is no risk. With regard to Article 8 and the ancillary staff of the Centre for the Education and Rehabilitation of Blinds: we will of course agree that the Centre will have all the employees it needs to operate. At some point, however, we need to look at the whole question of the ever-new fixed-term employment contracts. We are not allowed to keep workers permanently in anguish as to whether their contract will be renewed. Nor should we always be running at the last minute to sign renewals at risk of a service or, worse, an agency such as the Bowl Education and Rehabilitation Centre stays without staff. It's happened many times. With regard to Article 11 on the unemployed, which you withdrew, Minister, I think it has been withdrawn. And I'll tell you why. I think it would make it easier for the black job. In other words, those who would have been working for seventy days, not to lose the OAS, would have been taken and said not at all. So the black job would have been, someone would lose their job and wouldn't have declared it. I think, Minister, that the solution is not to write nice laws in theory, but to find mechanisms that we can implement. This could not be implemented, so I think it was well withdrawn. Find a way to prove it and bring it back. Finally, I would like to make a reference to the school meal amendment. Obviously the Centro Association is practically supporting all possible efforts towards tackling child poverty and hunger. Of course, the situation in recent years has been frustrating because constantly discussing wage cuts and tax increases are a difficult reality, but the hardest thing is to see children hungry or - even worse - fainting from hunger. The numbers are hard. About four and a half million Greeks, among them thirty - thirty thousand children, live in poverty. The provision that we are discussing certainly neither solves nor leads to the fight against poverty, as it promises. It takes a minimal step, since the report of the General Accounting Office of the State refers to the distribution of meals to ten thousand students for only thirty-five days. I think it's a pilot project. But it's good, we don't say it's bad. On the contrary, in Greece, in our schools, in primary and secondary schools, about three hundred thousand students are in attendance, while in primary school it is about six hundred thousand. Of course, Minister, you are committed to covering the seventy thousand meals to the students. Here we are, we will monitor the government's work if it is implemented and if you stick to your commitments. That is our role, to judge government acts and to see if they are implemented. Child hunger is one of the most serious issues we have to deal with as a state and as a society. If we manage to make our children happy again, actively, happy in their schools, I think it will be the greatest success. Because hunger and learning, Minister, cannot coexist. It's hard to starve and want to read. So our children are accounted for. These are tomorrow and eventually our children pay for the mistakes that we are to blame. So we need to find the solutions that are necessary to enable them to move forward. The bill says 'yes' in the first place. I will be placed on the articles later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u86	Thank you, Mrs. Big Housekeeper. The special speaker from the river Mr. George Mavrotas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, Mr President. The bill for the “National Log of Loaders, National Register of Private Social Care Entities and other provisions” is certainly not available for high opposition tone. The bill itself is provisions that come to set a framework on various issues of the Ministry of Labour. Only a few remarks will I make on the specific provisions and at the end of the speech I will say the most important ones. Let us start with the first chapter, the National Register of Loaders and Articles 1 to 6. According to the explanatory statement, the need for a new register regulation arises mainly from the fact that, for its implementation, several joint ministerial decisions and simple ministerial decisions, which created numerous administrative, interpretative, legal, judicial and operational problems, were required. But these issues remain - perhaps to a lesser extent - and in this version of the bill. Article 4 provides for a joint ministerial decision in paragraph 1. The same in paragraph 2, which will even come out within a month, as stated. Paragraph 3 also provides for a simple ministerial decision within one month. And the question is why we did not wait a month to incorporate these too so that we do not have the permanent problem of the division of the institutional framework, which is supposed to solve this bill. Article 2 states that in order to import the loader’s register, a pre-service is needed. The question is: what a pre-service to what, since they will not take part in Registry II to get it from the various loaders? Unless you mean that this is a service in Register I, which does not exist as a requirement, which is not entirely clear. We must not, in other words, create a register of existing obstacles to entry for young people. In Chapter II, we start from the National Register of Private Social Care Entities. Article 7 consists in the IRB of the register of non-profit-making private entities providing social care services and describes the elements required, i.e. the fields to be filled in by interested parties. There was something similar to the National Social Solidarity Centre for certified bodies, with much more fields. We think it is very right to create this register and we have the following comments to optimise its operation: it may be too much to update it in real time - what sense would it have - that is, if the number of beneficiaries is changed or if a transaction takes place and the financial data change, because the register should be immediately updated. We believe that the quarter or semester would be a sufficient time for this register to be updated periodically. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Ms. CHRISTOPOULOUou, takes over the President's seat.]] In addition to recording, this register should also be used for the evaluation of bodies. Therefore, in order to be able to combine it with other registries such as the National Centre for Social Solidarity, maximum interoperability should be sought in order to be in the required specifications in the registry, that is to say, to communicate with the other relevant registers to optimise, maximise its usefulness. In Article 10 there is an amendment to the Statute of the IRIC. The main change is that the purpose of HICP is expanded and it no longer only supports supervised bodies from the Ministries of Health and Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, but will also be able to support the ministries themselves. Despite the good work done with "IDES S.A.", it is still a state-owned company that has a monopoly on specific services, and that is a problem for us. Any monopoly can create dependencies and side effects. As regards the services to private operators abroad, I think the necessary clarification has been given by the Deputy Minister and by the legislative improvement he has made I think it is clear that it concerns foreign state-owned and not foreign-owned companies, so that the justified objections of the APRC are resolved and rejected, because HRH does not intend to extend to private-sector projects. We have said that we are clearly in favour of the institution, which is part of our programme for education. It is an institution that we believe is not only humanitarian, but it can also have a pedagogical character, in practice giving basic principles of nutrition. Let us not forget that we are a country with a worryingly high rate of child obesity and that if the basic principles for nutrition are not given to the family, they should definitely be given to school. In fact, we have proposed that the Committee on Morphics should combine the course of Physical Education with basic principles of nutrition. What's the problem? The problem is that for a need known for some time - school meals are not something that has arisen in the last month, it is something that has been in existence for some time - we are now coming to the last minute and are resorting to a direct assignment for a part of the project until the normal contest is completed. Here the proposal that has been made to deal with it, so that the municipalities can speed up it, is not a bad proposal. We are not saying that this is illegal, but it is indicative of dystocia and bad programming. Because it is not the only phenomenon, our fear is that this practice should not be established, that is to say, that things should be allowed to reach the last minute, to reach the "amen" in order to make direct assignments because of the urgency. Let's go to the amendments. First of all, I would like to refer to two similar amendments, identical, which have been tabled by different Members, one by the Democratic Alliance and the other by Mr Nicolopoulos, concerning CEDEFOP. It is a question of how these two amendments are identical as they have been tabled. In this context, a Presidential Decree on the Rules of Procedure of the CEDEFOP has been pending since 2005. Of course, the question is why it has been pending since 2005 and the responsibilities should exist in all governments since then, namely the New Democracy and the PASOK which tabled this amendment. Another question is why this amendment has come as a parliament and not as a ministerial one, because the Minister himself has committed himself to legislation. In the amendment on firefighters, you are showing all the great amount of mistakes made and the wrong priorities and pathogens in the staffing of public administration over time, not only in the last two years. In the public sector, we have deficits in the front line, in other words in the direct service of the citizen, such as firefighters, such as nurses, such as teachers, and we have a surplus in the aftermath. In other words, we have an absolute need for the services of those on the front line, but we do not provide them with the corresponding working conditions. And that's something to worry about. Not to hold them hostage, as is the case with firefighters, giving another three-year extension to contracts, but to see how we are going to allocate and reconstruct the public, so that the citizen and the civil servant concerned can also serve the working conditions required and provided for. There is also an amendment to build houses for minors from the Ministry of Defence to deal with the refugee crisis. Again urgent procedures, as you know, are urgent. The question is why it comes with a parliamentary amendment, and it concerns the Ministry of Defence. Direct assignments here, like at school meals. Generally we are the country of direct award! Let me close with some of the facts of the news, namely the process of the second evaluation that is in the air at the moment. If you are going to wait until May or summer to close the evaluation, because now there is money and direct expenditure can be covered, that is, we do not have any direct obligations, then you are criminalising the economy. We are not going, in May 2017, but we will return to July 2015! Four more months of uncertainty and insecurity will freeze the economy, worsen the economic indicators, and that means more painful measures to get the numbers out. In May, i.e., and we'll be with the back wall and we'll need more measures. The negotiation of 'until then who lives and dies', as some of your ministers say, is a dead end, is the negotiation of the war. This vicious circle of assessment, uncertainty in the economy, economic climate, deterioration of indicators, more measures to get out of numbers, is something you have never understood. If we want 2% of GDP, then in May we will want 3% or 4%, because in the meantime the 2.7% growth objective of this budget is lost. To make it a little more documentary, it's like we're on a boat that's removed from the coast and at the same time it's watering. And instead of diving fast, swimming, going out and going a little shorter, we wait on the boat, believing that the air will change and make us out. But the air doesn't change. We're off the coast and we're constantly swimming longer to get out. In other words, we have more measures to take to close the evaluation. If you want to speak soccer terms, since we had yesterday and Champions League, when you play with a stronger opponent, with Bayern, as we saw yesterday, you want the fight to end in fifteen minutes or in the first half. Otherwise, as time passes, the strongest one prevails, and in the end you can suffer debauchery, even if you are Arsenal. Well, for quantitative relaxation it is known that the milestone is the 9th of March that the European Central Bank meets. We have also some who prepare the ground for this failure. First, Mr Vernardakis says that it is secondary to enter quantitative relaxation, and yesterday we heard Mr Stathakis saying that we will be postponing it for a while, as if the European Bank would be waiting for us, during a period of European elections, when we will decide to close the evaluation, to say, "Come on, welcome to quantitative relaxation". But joining quantitative relaxation is not a simple thing, it is the basic prerequisite for the growth of 2.7% that the government expects for 2017. I read from page 20 of the draft budget. ‘Created’, says the rapporteur, “the conditions necessary for the recovery by the European Central Bank of the eligibility of Greek bonds as a pledge to the monetary policy operations of the Eurosystem, translated into access by the Greek banking system at lower cost liquidity’. To enter quantitative relaxation, that is to say, is the condition set out in page 20 of the draft budget. If we don't get 2.7% growth, then we're getting ready for cuts, etc. And the question is, if those who say this out of ignorance about how the economy works or serve a intentional collapse plan. Are you negotiating to close the evaluation decently or not to close heroicly? We must finally put the economy in a first shot, not communication or micro-policy. Once again, however, the closure of the assessment is necessary but not sufficient a treaty for the recovery of the economy. After the successful second assessment we hope to make, the aim is to enter the quantitative relaxation, which we hope will be done again, so we will improve liquidity, take a breath of the economy, which is now in the intensive process. And if the review closes and we get into the QE, are we saved? Of course not. He needs other things. The main thing is to stop the punishment of entrepreneurship - and here we see taxation and insurance, how they punish entrepreneurship - and to get off big investment. And do you know what the important fact is, which could change the economic climate irreversibly? No, it is not the "matrix of the nation" calling for fourteen Members of the New Democracy along with Mr. Kammenos and Mr. Nicolopoulos. The important fact will be that the first bulldozer enters the Greek. It will be a sign that we are determined to move forward, that large investment is getting out of hand, that jobs are being created. And in Greek we have about seventy thousand jobs at the beginning. That's what we need. And because the economy is climate, psychology will begin to change. Others will follow. But I do not see the Couple sharing this vision as well as the attempts to block the projects concerned. And I'm worried that I'm giving them ideas and now they're asking to become the "those of the nation" in the Greek to delay the investment. The economy cannot get ahead with appointments and direct assignments on the one hand and overtaxation and brake investment on the other. The economy can't get ahead when the client state and its practices are all governments know how to do well in the last forty years. You keep going too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, actually, for your time. I shall now give the floor to the Minister, Mr Toska, to speak on the amendment. Is five minutes okay, Mr. Toska?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u89	I will speak less, Madam President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is well known that the distortions concerning the Security Bodies, the Greek Police and the Fire Force. These two bodies were used more like a mechanism for the recruitment of party votes than for the reason they exist. And you know what? We are not the ones who mocked or played the firefighters or the cops. There have been huge distortions, these distortions have served other interests or failure to resolve issues, and we are now coming to cover a transitional phase for five-year-old firefighters, which could not be solved otherwise. We believe that we are giving these people, who work hard and contribute to fire-sharing, because they are a great number of them and are doing a great deal of work and not only on fires - we are giving them a three-year extension, giving them the opportunity to join the annual and graduating promotions, the possibility of introducing into productive schools and the possibility of working overtime during nights, holidays, etc. It is also because of the fact that these five-year-old firefighters, who will gradually fill in five years, are subject to the provisions of the amendment tabled today and therefore there must be no cause for concern. The amendment tabled by the JRC cannot be implemented. First of all, the demands of the five-year-old firefighters are different, and on the contrary, they are in a direction of permanent integration into the permanent firefighting staff with the same tasks. It creates huge turbulence and, in fact, calls for four thousand posts to be covered through the pan-Hellenic examinations, which I wish could be done and I wish we could meet all the needs of civil protection. I would be very happy, but as you can see.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u90	That's not what we say, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u91	We're not interrupting.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u92	Don't have a dialogue. You'll have time to place yourself.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u93	Mr Catasta, that is basically what we say. It is also not, as your rapporteur said, time of service, but the possibility of quickly joining the category of permanent is given. Therefore, they are not in the air, as some people have probably suggested, even - they are equally guaranteed the status of these people and there are conditions for permanentisation perhaps too quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, too. Mrs. Fotou, do you now want the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u95	If colleagues want to, let them go first, so that we don't all go together.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u96	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr. Papaliou from SYRIZA for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u97	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this bill is not one of what makes public, but it is part of a series of government legislative initiatives that have a special burden. Its first part refers to the loaders taking over the loading and unloading on land and sea, both to the operators and to the loaders themselves. Traders because they are interested in safe and timely loading and loading of cargo, and freighters, because they are interested in their safety, which is a prerequisite for the provision of this work in a modern welfare state. The second part refers to the entry as users in the National Register of Private Social Entities of all those who provide welfare services and are legal persons of a non-profit-making nature by supplementing, I would say, the previous regime. As regards the first chapter in the application of the legislation in force, a number of administrative, judicial, operational and interpretative problems have been identified. As a result of these malfunctions, there were to be interpretations and litigation, which is inconsistent with the objective of the law. Thus, the first part of this draft law attempts to correct the bad texts that have been observed in previous years, either concerning the services involved, which have led to an excessive administrative burden, but also to unjustified administrative expenditure, or to the citizens who have been unduly charged with the ambiguity of specific regulations. Thus this draft law regulates issues relating to the operation of the National Loader Register, creating new, different, more favourable conditions for the exercise of this profession. The different conditions are achieved by the adaptation of the public administration to the actual work needs of the loaders, the reduction of bureaucratic burdens and the acceleration of registration procedures in the National Loader Register (VRD). In addition, this draft law goes beyond procedural simplifications and substantial changes in the conditions of registration which now provides for a distinction between loading and unloading operations by category of port and land, taking into account the practical experience of the loader in carrying out particularly dangerous loading operations. So it is redefined in a more rational, simpler way, the process of registering the EMP. The current legislation provides for or provides for a common National Register of Loaders for Land and Ports. Port and land loading is, however, of a different nature and on the basis of so-called best European practices, their classification in different registers is required. In this context, at second level, including the most difficult, the most complex, the most specific and the most dangerous tasks, there is a distinction between the Land Registry and the Port Register. At the same time, the conditions necessary for carrying out specialised or even dangerous work are laid down so that the former experience of the worker or a combination of experience and training can be provided either as a prerequisite for entry into register II. The fact that, as a prerequisite for integration into Register II, experience is now being placed, means that the safety conditions for workers are strengthened, as experience prevents risks and creates an environment of safety. In the new context, training and certification programmes are not abolished, simply in register II can be entered on the basis of a combination of experience and training, in a more rational manner and in the light of the health, safety and protection of workers. Thus, for port loading operations, one will be entered in Register II on the basis of experience of a hundred or ninety posters with training and certification, while in register II Drought one will be registered on the basis of experience of eighty series or forty series of training and certification. The Sub-Certified Port and Dry Loader Sub-Certificate is also created, where loaders participating in a port or land training and certification programme are registered to improve their know-how and skills. With regard to the second chapter, it is intended to enter a classroom in the field of social care. All entities that provide social care services and are legal persons of a non-profit-making nature shall be registered as users in the National Register of Private Social Care Entities and, in essence, the provisions of this Law complement the current status. To date, very limited data have been provided for each body with the relevant department of the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity and through the EKK, and only for those bodies which were directly financed by the State, but not for those who are indirectly financed, for example, by the regions, the EEAS, etc. In this context, this division would say that it is artificial. This draft law provides electronic input for all operators through HRB and is now provided with the data required for all operators, so that there is transparency and full knowledge of the data. Since the prosperous landscape is multi-formal, Article 7(1) falls under private-law legal persons, other than charities, NGOs and other non-profit companies. This multifaceted landscape is now homogeneously captured and therefore paragraph 3 states the identity of the institution with all relevant elements, name, geographical scope, objectivity and social services provided, the number of recipients, the number and qualifications of workers, voluntary staff, financial data etc. This supports public control of social and pro-active services, good management of social resources, and quality provided by private non-profit-making bodies and voluntary organisations within the framework of social care programmes of vulnerable population groups. Two words on two of the amendments. With the amendment to school meals by one of them covered pupils who have conditions of absolute poverty, and on the other, habits of eating and eating choices that will have a positive effect on the health, disease prevention and the fight against obesity of pupils are being formulated. With regard to the amendment on five-year firefighters meeting specific conditions, as referred to in the explanatory statement, for technical reasons, but also for reasons relating to the current phase of the negotiation on evaluation, a regulation is introduced which guarantees their right to permanentisation and sets a specific longer-term horizon for this three-year period. The Government was required to act quickly so that the three-year period is not necessary, as is provided for in the amendment, in which it is expressly stated that a shorter period can be fixed for permanentisation. Finally, this category of fire extinguishers must be justified, these firefighters must be simulated and subsequently treated in all respects - work, remuneration, etc. - on equal terms with other permanent colleagues already. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u98	Mr Vorides has the floor from New Democracy. And I'll start talking about time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, Madam President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And since I am going to deal with a very specific issue, I do not think it will take so much time. Of course, I wish to speak and speak in this particular debate on the subject of the amendment on the regulation of fire extinguishers. It is a problem that, as far as I can see, the Minister responsible is not here. He tabled the amendment and left. Evidently, the present Minister representing the government is not aware of the matter and cannot develop it. And as far as I can see, the majority rapporteur is present to support...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u100	Firstly, who told you that I do not know the matter and, secondly, that the Minister responsible has not raised the matter twice?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u101	Who told me that the minister in charge isn't here? My eyes told me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u102	But you weren't in the Chamber all this time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u103	I heard the development made by the Minister. Who's gonna give answers? Why do you get so excruciated? You have an abnormal procedure. In other words, an amendment is being tabled late.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u104	Mr. Voridis, he will hear your questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u105	I am sorry, Madam President, because I am also insulted by those who do not respect the normality of the parliamentary procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u106	What regularity?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u107	The normality of the parliamentary procedure is that you have brought an unrelated bill a late amendment. The minister in charge came in, developed it and left. This is therefore incomplete in the parliamentary procedure. What don't you understand? And you're observing us from above! Now, sit down there.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u108	Aren't there any amendments?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u109	Late amendments to irrelevant bills are not foreseen! So we can get together now. Both aren't predicted.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u110	Shall we throw the amendment away?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u111	You should be informed of the parliamentary procedure and then comment on it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u112	We are all glad that this amendment has come. Do we agree on that, Mr. Voridis?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u113	What, Madam President?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u114	To the fact that this amendment to firefighters has come.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u115	On whether we agree to settle the matter, we agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u116	Hey, this. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u117	In that the parliamentary procedure is not normal, too, we agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u118	Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u119	I also imagine that we agree that the Minister is not responsible for observations. And that's what we should agree on. So since we have agreed on all of this, we must now go to the point where we disagree. And the essence is this. I read in the explanatory statement: ‘The recruitment of this special category of staff who have taken up ad hoc organic posts has taken place since 2012. A reasonable expectation has been created, in part of those qualified, that at the end of the five-year period they will be incorporated into the permanent firefighting staff.' Expectation was created or was there a legislative obligation? There was a specific legislative commitment. Had they created an anticipation on their own? Since there was an explicit provision in the law that they had to simulate on February 10th. So no legitimate expectation was created. The government had a certain obligation under the law, the obligation to permanentize it. This was supposed to have taken place on 10/02. Now listen up. I read from the explanatory statement: ‘However, the completion of the permanentisation process presents certain technical and legal difficulties as a result of the misguided wording of the above provisions and the provocation of confusion, on the other hand, as to whether the final process of integration into permanent staff is subject to the restrictions on recruitment in the public sector in accordance with Article 11 of L.3833/2010.’. Yes, sir. What complications? No complication, absolutely none of it! And why is there no complicity? Because what does the provision provide for? The only provision made by the provision that the government is now proposing in terms of legal requirements, do you know what it is? The adoption of two presidential decrees abolishing the organic posts for the five-year term of office and precisely the same organic positions are recommended in order to simulate them. What's wrong with that? Why couldn't these two years of your government be extradited? That was the requirement. As far as 1 to 4 is concerned, regardless of whether they are incorporated or not, why have you not predicted and ensured that the recruitments carried out are included in this staff so that there is no question of them? Why didn't you take that into account? You're changing for the best! That's what you did in the past. I'm coming to the best. What are you doing now? It says for a three-year extension - to consult this is going to 2020, that is the three-year extension - in order to resolve the issue of permanentisation. What do you want for the three years? Do you need three years to issue the two presidential decrees with the establishment plan for these posts? Who are you kidding? And why are you kidding? Why don't you say what your real intention is, what do you want to do with this category of workers? What is your real intention? Do you want to move on to permanentisation? And you want three years to issue the presidential decrees of organic positions? Would you like me to prepare you with the presidential decrees in a month to finish this and to finish the check by the Council of State? Do you want to? But you want to make fun of yourself, hence all three years. And you want me to take note of you - even 1 to 4? Why don't you take 1 to 4 into account in the 2017 recruitment? One to four are four retired for one hired person. Aren't eight thousand people going to retire so that you can hire that number in the current time? So to be informed, it is clear that you are mocking, it is clear that you are mocking and it is clear that, in fact, these people are still pending, because you do not have the courage and courage to regulate. So it is obvious that not only should no one feel gratitude because you supposedly gave them three years ago, but rather it is clear that we in this debauchery do not collide. And what we are calling on the government directly is to act, if its intentions are honest, in order to deal with this matter in a serious way. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u120	Mr. Panayotarus has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u121	Thank you, Madam President. Before I begin to refer to fire extinguishers from this bill, I would like to make a little comment. Someone previously - if I'm not mistaken was the speaker of the river - referred ironically to a question that was asked about the "stop of the nation". It was a question, which some journalists also asked yesterday at SKAI TV again ironically asking the MP of the New Democracy, Mr Hatzidakis, what he has to say about this anachronistic, as they wanted to present, a question. This nation was liberated in 1821, after struggles by some people who had made a grave. This was the so-called 'tama of the nation', which, almost two hundred years later, has escaped, with excuses, has not taken place. Any excuses that exist and are put, in our case, hypocritically, and from the New Democracy - because you have ruled decades of gentlemen, and you could have taken the necessary steps for the'stop of the nation' - are a hunger to those who fought and liberated our country. I would also like to comment on the "usableness" which was heard by Mrs Fotio, when the speaker of the Golden Dawn referred to school meals and made a comment to note that they do not include pork and that the foods that will go to school should also have the approval of Hallal. For those you don't know, the Hallal certification is made by mufts, for the living that have been slaughtered, have been slaughtered according to Muslim standards. And if one turns to see how live are slaughtered according to Muslim standards, they run counter to all the laws that have to do with the manner in which animals are slaughtered. Now how can it be done, on the one hand, that more and more stringent ways in which they are slaughtered in slaughterhouses whether they are lambs or calves or birds or whatever else, and on the other hand, that they are allowed to move on the market of such foods, is a oxymobile and an absurd one, which shows how much la carts you are anti-racists, how much la carts you are, and how much lat humanists you are, of the joke literally? If they were not the refugeees, as you say, we call them illegal immigrants - and terminology is official of the European Union, but also structures of the Greek state, the term of illegal immigrants and illegal immigrants, as much as you try to change it - you would certainly not be very interested in the children of Greeks who are hungry in schools, as you do for the Greek people, where your Minister went out and said, none of them eat of the garbage anymore, all is well and various other philosophies. Let us get to this amendment on firefighters. A lot has been heard, heard and will be heard. First of all, that four thousand firefighters remain unworked, with all the importance of the word, clearly and makes us voted in favour of any amendment that comes to extend their work and I hope that they will be permanently implemented. And if something better comes, clearly, and we will be voting in favour of it. We are going to something else here because we are constantly talking about the public sector. We also see in the explanatory statement to the amendment that there are several issues with No.3833/2010, which has to do with restrictions on recruitment in the public sector. If we look at what is happening in particular over the past one and a half years in our homeland with thousands of appointing archipelago drones in various NGOs who have been lost in cities and elsewhere, appointments everywhere they do not need, at the same time as the Fire Corps is saving all of them and too many constantly are fires in the summer, either floods or famines or oppressions, and it has huge deficiencies, it is hypocritical to be afflicting these people. Some time ago, a bill had come here on public service missions and was talking about the transfers of civil servants. He said the bill, that yes, there must be transitions, because there are obviously services that are overnumbered by all those appointed with party billets outside the ADP and there are others that are empty. And instead of these transfers being compulsory, they will be done if any civil servant wants. Another hypocrisy of the government and of the previous governments, who saw civil servants as their best electoral clienteles, often blackmailed and you know very well how this whole project is going. For us, for the Golden Dawn, we should, above all, have the Security Body, the Firefighting, the Police, the Port Authority, the Army, not have one empty organic position. Before and above all, because they work for the good of the whole, in all its forms and appearances, and it is certainly much more right and healthy for the Fire Corps to be overcrowded than being overcrowded by a Ministry with several drones, who have no work and are paid for and multiples than a firefighter is paid for with many victims who have occasionally, the dead, the injured, what may happen. It is the position of the Golden Dawn - and we have said it and there is in our programme too - that the only way if we wanted to make a national policy right by using the public sector should be that these positions should be overcrowded. Because as you can see - we are going a little further - if it is our Army normally by staff and there is no shortage, the remote areas will have more life, if the fire-fighting stations across the territory are complete, it is also a life injection for the local communities, economic and other forms. Besides, it's a sense of security. When you're out in the open, in a wilderness, and you're gonna see a police station somewhere, the people you're closing them everywhere or even more when you see in the liquor store a fire truck with two, three, four firefighters, ready to fall into the fire first, with what that means, if the damage doesn't happen. This is the position of Golden Dawn for civil servants. We repeat that not all civil servants are the same. The blackmailers of four thousand firefighters cannot be on the same line, which we see here are not permanently held while they should, and you should hold them hostages in the next three years, hoping that when there are elections, then the different parties will come and play on the back of the firefighters, but also other categories of civil servants and officials, and they will be told to "vote for us to end the issue" and all of this to know what is going on. [[At this point, the end of the time bell is ringing by the honourable Member.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. To conclude, unfortunately, our country is being bombed by unwilling actions and actions at all levels. We have just read yesterday that, by ministerial decision, homosexual couples - or whatever you say - are now treated as normal couples with pension rights, rights whatever I do not know. Imagine some people who have been together for forty and fifty years, having the same rights as some, who many of them artificially and deliberately will have made a cohabitation pact, so for a few months or a couple of years to be able to take advantage of all this. And all this, of course, as we have said before, is contrary to the Greek Constitution and will come at some point when all this will be judged illegally by either the Council of State or elsewhere. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u122	Mr Papatheodorou has the floor from the PASOK - DIMAR.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u123	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is a good question, in fact, because the government that says it is interested in resolving a matter such as the restoration and settlement of the prospect of five-year-old firefighters, chooses to bring the matter to the House, Madam Minister, because that is my question - since these firefighters, these officials since 10 February - have been out of service illegally, since a solution has been unlawfully found! It brings regulation after the end of the term and a regulation that brings it today, when it is well known, that it was able to do so and to settle it when it was possible within the term of office, so that there would also be proposals and similar reactions. Today, Minister, I see - and I see Mr Toskas is absent, but I have heard him earlier - you have chosen to establish a hostage regime for firefighters for a five-year term of office. You have chosen - and it is a political option - to form a legislative framework, where it gives more tasks by renewing this mandate for a three-year period of less wage rights, which, of course, are not equal to the salaries of the other officials of the Firehouse. You are telling us in the explanatory statement something that I think - if you like - is challenging. It is provocative, because you say that the completion of the process of permanentisation has certain technical and legal implications, on the one hand because of the poor wording of the above provisions and, on the other hand, of confusion over the draft law. You talk about poor provisions and legal problems. Can I tell you something, Minister? Law 3938/2011 provided that all these officials would be included in the permanent staff of the Fire Corps at the end of the five-year term of office - he was not even talking about permanentisation. As you can see, there is no legal problem. The 2011 Act was clear that, after the end of the mandate, these officials who remind you that they are Firefighters and have been sworn into the permanent staff of the Fire Corps. There's no problem. That is why I say that you have deliberately delayed - the government has deliberately delayed, it is not your responsibility - and there is also a provocative - if you will - wording in this explanatory statement. When he says there's confusion, it's probably the confusion that the Minister has. I want to explain this very well. The Minister, Mr. Toskas, is in confusion. Since December 2016, Mr Toskas has stated that the legal preparation of the procedures for the permanentisation has been completed and, of course, only the opinion of the General Accounting Office of the State remains and may be held in the General Accounting Office of the State. Mr Toskas returns on 16 January and tells colleagues here in the Chamber to hear it: 'We have completed the procedures and we will proceed to legislation'. And the legislation we choose to move forward is to keep these people hostage for three years, without this procedure being accompanied by rights corresponding to the duties and, of course, not wages. In other words, where there were three categories in the Fire Corps, you're building a fourth category. You have the permanent, seasonal and five-year-olds who are in the old regulations and regulations, and the permanent ones you want to deceive. And you want to deceive them - I stress this - because you do not anticipate a regulation which will have a final date, but a regulation that even goes beyond the period of your own government. You tell them that in three years' time, i.e. after the next elections, we will be here to discuss it again, to turn these positions into permanent ones. The regulation you are bringing today, Minister, is so dysfunctional and unfair for the two hundred and hundred employees that the injustices are now being transferred to the workplace and the daily life of the Fire Corps. A firefighter told me: "When I am five years old and in the car I have a seasonal one and I am 40 km away from my seat, I have to call my commander, to ask him if he is allowed to go ahead with the fire suppression, i.e. go to the operation against the fire and have the responsibility, which no one else wants to take, to have a seasonal with me." And that's what you want us to keep for another three years! You know what? Today, when we talk about injustice, we are talking about the fact that an employee of the Fire Corps, paid for EUR 750, will do all the duties of the permanent but will not have the rights of the permanent, will not be included in the special salary, will be able to meet the hours of service, because that is how you say in it, without any prospect of wage assimilation. Do you want to give a fairer solution? Would you like us to support this amendment, in order to respond to these people's request too? I have a suggestion for you and you ought to think about it, to hear it from Mr. Toskas. It is planned - we call it hostage - that this renewal period should be reduced to one year. Without any other arrangement to proceed to the 2011 provision, which said that after the end of this renewal, namely one year, the two thousand former five-year term of office of firefighters should be incorporated into permanent staff and that there should be a full wage and work simulation there. If, indeed, you are willing to give a solution to these people, you do not have to hold them hostages or create a new clientele and election, if you like, a tank. We will support this if you accept it. We are going to renew for a year from now on and beyond that in one year to join without any other process. What you say in the explanatory statement to be issued by the KHS and presidential decrees, I think that they are pretexts and do not solve the problem, because it is too easy. After all, you did it for other professional classes. We all know it's a matter of political will. So our proposal is clear. We cannot support the amendment. We think he's harmful to the interests of the Fire Corps, because you're going to have new problems. Do you know how many people come as permanent from the Fire Academy? Eighty people in 2019. Until then, you will be using as second-class staff these people, the two thousand percent, who will now shut up working and professional holes now, Minister, with the privatisation of airports. No stations were set up at all airports. We will therefore have new stations, new needs, priority will be given to the permanent ones, and the staff of EUR 750 will be transferred, because they enter the transmission system everywhere in Greece and without any programming.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u124	Finish, Mr. Papatheodorou.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u125	I shall now conclude, Madam President, and thank you very much for your tolerance. So you understand that this is also unfair on the one hand, but it does not help the operational functionality of the Fire Corps. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u126	Mr Katsotis has the floor from the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u127	Thank you, Madam President. Let us start with the easy ones, which is the amendment to the ECA. I will only speak of two amendments, of the FBI and of the firefighters. In the rest, our rapporteur has best documented the position of the JRC in terms of the whole bill. As far as the ECA is concerned, there is already a big issue with the sharp reduction in state funding for social security. EFKA is known to have started with a deficit of 2.1 billion. It is also known that despite the financing from the AAA, the deficit continues to exist again. Is this an amendment covering the needs of social security? In our opinion, this deficit will not also be covered by the government, in order to make even more progress in reducing pensions, in removing social and insurance rights, as it has done so far, of course, by causing the situation in the insurance funds. That is why we say that our workers, our people, must fight to overthrow this policy and social security for the abolition of reinsurance laws. And, of course, the government is unambiguous, because the industrialists, the shipowners, the state itself through its operation, and the loan and unsavoury it gave. So today he refuses to recapitulate the need for social security. Of course we will vote 'yes' on the grant of social security institutions, the ECA, the NAT and the OGA, as provided for in the amendment. I come to the amendment for the workers in the Fire Corps. The Minister who is missing and hopefully listens to us, spoke about the JRC's amendment and said that our amendment is inconsistent with the demands of fire-fighting, five-year-olds and seasonals, while his solution to the matter. I imagine that all of you have received a complaint - a protest by the five-year and seasonal organizations, which invites you not to vote on this amendment, which the government has brought today. Didn't you take her? You got her. But you will do the opposite. You will vote on this amendment, which not only does not solve the problem but holds two thousand employees hostages and in complete insecurity all the others. What is our amendment, ladies and gentlemen? Our amendment says that, in order to address the issue, Article 15(1) of Law 3938/2011 should be abolished and the four thousand organic posts that have been abolished at that time should be automatically re-established. If this is not the case, it is not the case. Our amendment, the abolition of this paragraph, resolves this issue. Those posts shall be retroactively integrated, as from 1 February 2017, those of five-year-old firefighters meeting the criteria for classification. All other empty organic positions shall be covered by the process of the pan-Hellenic examinations of the next period of examination. Secondly, the subject raised by our amendment. Already serving five-year officials who do not meet the criteria for classification in the Fire Corps and all others who are under contract during the fire-fighting period, take retrospectively, as from 1 February 2017, permanent organic positions. If these are missing, young people will be set up under the Ministry of Interior, which is already involved in the civil protection of the country or the Ministry of the Environment and Energy, the Forest Service to meet its needs. What else does our amendment say, ladies and gentlemen? For the entire transition period until full coverage of the organic gaps of the Fire Corps from the pan-Hellenic examinations process, these officials should cover fire protection and prevention fields of the Fire Corps. We are also proposing, fourthly, that, with the end of the transitional period, they should be engaged in the new tasks of preventing, safeguarding and managing forest ecosystems, demolition of the country's road networks and flooding. This proposal is comprehensive and addresses the problem of all workers in the Firehouse with these working relationships that exist today. But what are we doing, ladies and gentlemen, and work in the Fire Corps? The government is trying to do this amendment, which only concerns those who have been found capable of permanentisation, to take an opinionary deception. It has been said for three years, and this is with the condition that the country's budgets will be allowed to do so and whether the two or three ministers decide on it. One thing is that. Everyone else is in the air. In other words, they are potentially fired, because so far they have not been - from what we see - the service decisions that renew their term of office. Tell us a service decision that renews the term of office of all the others. The three-year period, as I said before, does not guarantee them. It only ensures that they have a job for three years. It does not ensure permanentity. It ensures that the next three years will have a job. And then he'll be back in the air. We, therefore, because we do not want to play with the workers, call on you to accept our proposal, because it is the only one that solves the problem and the only one that ensures the homogenisation of the Firehouse and the effort to be done so that they do the work they must do so that property and human lives are not destroyed. The amendment you tabled does not address the problem and we call on you - even at the last minute - to accept the proposal of the JRC.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u128	Thank you, Mr Katsotis. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after taking part in the Educational Programme of "Casistrist" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty-five students and students and two educational attendants from the American College of Pierce. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs. Merope Jufi has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u129	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will try to reinstate the debate in today's bill, and I shall refer exclusively to the provisions relating to social protection, provisions to complement the planned policy of the Ministry and the Government in favour of vulnerable social groups. This sensitive area of social care services is known to be characterised by diversity, since there are a thousand five hundred bodies active, private legal entities, public institutions, NGOs, charitable associations, with the exception, of non-participating church institutions. But apart from diversity, it is also characterised by reduced supervision, resulting in malfunctions and divisions many times at the expense of those who are supposed to benefit from these services, which are the elderly, unprotected minors, poor families, chronic suffering and disabled people. At the same time, the landscape blurs, as funding is made for some of them through private resources, several times - as has been proven - clearly, but also by the state, either directly from the Ministry of Welfare or indirectly from bodies such as the EEA and the regions. It is therefore necessary to check that public spending is properly used. For these reasons and with a view to better and more effective monitoring by the Ministry of the Environment of the actions of all these bodies, this National Register, as provided for in Article 7 of Chapter b, is established, however, by registering it as compulsory. This regulation, of course, is the continuation of the already voted National Social Protection Mechanism, which was redesigned in the framework of the NRP and voted precisely to evaluate, plan and document. This register will include items relating to the institution concerned, services provided, number of beneficiaries, number of employees, their skills, personnel providing these services voluntarily, financial data such as funding resources, balance sheet and balance sheet items, the entity’s movable and immovable property, and finally, the capacity of seats and beds. At the same time, data from e-pronoia and EKKA will be exploited, expanding the intercom capacity of existing registers. In this way there will be a full mapping of the landscape in this direction. Moreover, the concentration and evaluation of these elements will enable us to design with data a single policy for the benefit of a larger population, especially those vulnerable groups, while, as I said before, it will obviously be able to prevent and prevent mismanagement phenomena, such as those that have seen the light of publicity, for example the Athens Elderly, where the outgoing administration has handed out funds and confiscated accounts. So there, ladies and gentlemen, and not the direct assignments of the Ministry, the party has been there for many years, unfortunately. We therefore believe that this effort strengthens and upgrades the control of these social and prosperous benefits and services, with the aim of sound and efficient management of social resources, the coordination and evaluation of the quality of the services provided by all these bodies for vulnerable and vulnerable social groups. However, I would also like to refer to the amendment on school meals, which has been discussed quite a few times. It is well known that the austerity programmes are responsible for increasing poverty and, of course, for child poverty. Indeed, on the basis of ELSTAT, the risk to child poverty amounts to 26.6%, while the proportion of children living in families who are under the poverty threshold is much more, at 34.5%. It is precisely child poverty that can appear with malnutrition phenomena, but especially obesity phenomena, in which our country and, unfortunately, had a negative first in all ages and sexes. And just this negative prototype predisposes these children to very serious illnesses that we used to see in adult life, such as diabetes mellitus, heart disease. Indeed, it is now officially registered that the reduction of family income is directly linked to obesity, as under crisis conditions parents resort to cheap, unhealthy calorie food to feed their children. Therefore, the aim of this extension of school meals is to combat child poverty and food insecurity, as we are still in a strong social and economic crisis. And it appears from the recorded evidence that there are about a hundred thousand children in this danger. This action is important because it forms part of an institutional planning, as the state undertakes to support these families and to finance the programme from public resources. Efforts had been made in previous years by volunteer groups, parents’ associations, educational and ecclesiastical institutions, which, of course, can continue. But here we are talking about the state that chooses to design this policy. It is therefore our duty to support these institutional interventions. At the same time, through this process, we aim to change the nutritional culture for the whole child population. We do not want to give a pool to the crisis, but we want to be able to take a pedagogical and educational measure with the parallel organisation of the thematic weeks relating to nutrition, which may possibly change the patterns of culture, apart from giving immediate relief in matters of malnutrition, since ages suitable for intervention are the ages of two and a half, that is, ages from two to five and adolescence. The argument that this initial, rapid assignment for the first three months is a matter of complication and clientele is absolutely dead, because this is to start with the programme, which will cover a small amount of ten thousand students. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Please give me one, two more minutes, Madam President. It has been submitted by the Minister that this programme will cover seventy thousand students, and that it will, of course, be conducted with a fully transparent international tender and a cost of 25 million. It will also be based on the official figures, where we have indicators of extreme poverty and unemployment, which consent to schools and parents' associations, with the aim of extending next year to cover 30% of the six hundred thousand children at primary school at risk of poverty. I therefore believe that we should all, together, support this effort by the Ministry, integrate it into the future and help all, with more actions, with the prospect of permanent state intervention and support of public bodies that will provide social care and protection. In the next minute, I would like to concern you with an amendment, which I am tabling on behalf of other SYRIZA colleagues, on the issue of unaccompanied children. The dimensions of the refugee and immigration crisis are known to us all and the most vulnerable group are the unaccompanied minor applicants. There's a very important number of children locked in. Of course we don't know exactly who he is. They're mostly boys. We know they operate throughout the territory of fifty hostels, with a capacity of one thousand two hundred eighty-two hostels. However, there are additional needs for another six hundred, seven hundred new posts, in line with the applications pending. For these reasons, with our amendment, we seek to have suitable areas and facilities for temporary hospitality for children in need of protection. And, of course, in the context of the emergency settlement, we propose that the renovation, development and equipment of these property belonging to the Ministry of Labour and the supervised bodies, namely social protection centres, should be carried out with the assistance of the Ministry of National Defence. They will also operate with the existing staff and, if necessary, they will probably be able to further staff these hostels with staff they know and care for such vulnerable children over time. Expenditure on the work and equipment of buildings will be paid by the Asylum, Migration and Integration Fund. I therefore believe that we too conclude with this amendment what we are trying to say, namely social protection to all the minors who live in the country, without discrimination and with a view to human dignity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u130	Thank you, Mrs. Jufi. Mr Maximos Charakopoulos has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u131	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have asked for the floor for the late amendment concerning the extension of the contract for three more years of the five-year obligation firefighters, which, if the law had been implemented today, should have been permanently permanentd. This late amendment is a monument of populism and retardation of the two thousand, about fire extinguishers expected by the state to implement Law 3938/2011. But it seems that others are the priorities of the government. As you know, this law has created a special charge for five-year-old fire extinguishers, with the creation of four thousand posts of which three thousand four hundred were covered by former seasonal workers and six hundred by individuals of interest. The Act provided that, at the end of the five-year period, those who had not completed their forty-year-olds and who were at least high-school graduates could be permanentised and the others could apply for a renewal of their five-year term. In 2014, the government with L.4249 gave the opportunity to join the permanent staff of firefighters five years of obligation before the end of the five-year period by a joint Ministerial Decision of the Finance, Administrative Reconstruction and Civil Protection Ministers, following a recommendation from the Executive Board. Such a CIA in two years of governance SYRIZA - ANEL was not issued. On the other hand, in the 2017 budget there was no provision for the permanentisation of five-year obligation fire extinguishers. On the basis of the law two thousand ninety-three firefighters were therefore deemed to fulfil the conditions for permanentisation by the relevant councils. On Sunday, February 12, 2016, a document was released on the Internet for the request submitted by the House Headquarters in early May 2016, prior to the adoption of the Ministerial Decision on the process of permanentling fire-fighting five-year obligation by the Ministry of Civil Protection, and for which the Director of the Office of the Minister's Office claimed that he should withdraw. Withdrawal took place two days later. I am tabling the relevant correspondence in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Maximos Charakopoulos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And while the deadline of 10 February 2017 for the permanentisation of the five-year obligation fire extinguishers, who until then accepted assurances to all tons for their permanentization, sees the light of publicity - again on the Internet - a response from the Minister for Administrative Reconstruction, Mrs Olga Gerovasili, to the Headquarters of Firefighting. What does the document say dated 2-2-2017? After invoking the Memorandum Response obligations for appointments to the public, based on the ‘one recruitment to four departures’ in 2017 and the ‘one recruitment for three departures’ in 2018, the Ministry of Civil Protection “carves” that it did not inform the Administrative Response in time to plan recruitments. Mrs Gerovasili writes attributes: "Our Office, taking into account both the needs of operators and the financial conditions, has planned the appointments and recruitment of regular staff for the next two years. That programme shall not include the inclusion of the two thousand three hundred and seventy-fifths of five fire-fighting fire-fighting fire-fighting officers who have been hired for a five-year term of office, with the possibility of renewal.’ And it continues below, urging the Ministry to renew their term of office, requesting the PHS Committee 33/2006 and to permanentize it as soon as the country's budgetary conditions allow it to do so on the basis of the procedure carried out. I'm putting down the document on the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Maximos Charakopoulos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So that's the reality. Either ignorance and urgency or because you have other recruitment priorities, you have not informed the relevant Ministry of Recruitment in order to be included in the planning of annual public recruitments. And as the period of permanentisation expired on 10 February and two thousand ninety three firefighters would be in the air from your own mistakes and uncertainties, the Headquarters was forced, one day before, to order a mandatory day off and to those who were not entitled to the day off, compulsory granting of a normal licence until 19 February 2017, in order to get the amendment to the House. In fact, I am subtracting myself from the amendment to its author. I read from the explanatory statement: 'The proposed provision is necessary in all respects to clarify the status of the five-year term of office of firefighters to the permanent staff of this House'. It is the amendment that has been extending their term of office for another three years and is being baptized as a 'cleaning' for their integration into permanent staff. It continues: ‘However, the completion of the permanentisation process presents certain technical and legal difficulties as a result of the poor wording of the above provisions and of confusion, on the other hand, as to whether the final process of integration into permanent staff is subject to the restrictions on recruitment in the public sector in accordance with Article 11 of Law 3833/2010’. Technical and legal complications. Confusion whether simulation is subject to public appointment restrictions. Let's see this well. Well, when did you discover all this? What have you been doing for two years? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. The amendment to better cases for you is a confession of incompetence. For two years the rule of the field was buying. About other things, he was stirring. Unless others were your priorities for government appointments, which, as we proved during our recent debate on the subject, the wider public sector instead of falling, in 2016 increased, by seven thousand compared to the previous year. I would also like to point out, Madam President, that there is no clear mention in the amendment of the three hundred and eighty-nine who have also been included in supplementing the withdrawal tables. Of these, eighty-eighty-eight meets the criteria for permanentization in time that will complete the five-year period and is not included in the two thousand ninety-three of the arrangement. What will be the financial burden for them? Has the General Accounting Office estimated the total charge? It must be made clear that they too are part of the regulation. In any case, I conclude by saying this: if the answer given by the Deputy Minister for Civil Protection, Mr Toskas, is in the process of negotiating with the institutions which he expects to conclude in the next few days, why should the extension of the term of office be regulated for three years? Why don't you bring in a regulation extending their contracts for up to three or six months? In this debacle - because it is a misfortune - in this five-year obligation of fire extinguishers, because it is a hostage - the New Democracy will not consent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u132	Thank you. Mr Kegeroglu from the Democratic Association has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u133	Ladies and gentlemen, it seems from the reactions of some people that strengthening their Democratic Integration has annoyed them. It certainly has annoyed Mr Tsipras and Mr Leventis, who, in order to hit our sidelines, are not lying. The last cases are: The Prime Minister on Friday on the occasion of a question from another party, lied and distorted the evidence of the Ministry of Health's medicine during the term of office Andreas Loverdus. A timely question has been tabled for Mr Tsipras to come to the House to provide clarification. If he refuses, we'll keep going. However, today we had another case from Mr. Leventis, through the show "Good morning" by Mr. Papadakis. Mr. Leventis lied. He accused our proposal that workers in CEDEFOP and those who are entitled to liability were well paid and that it is impossible to demand them back. The fact that there is a failure of the state to complete the CEDEFOP regulation will not be paid by the workers. In addition, to see that not only is the Chief of Kentrons, but he is also a two-faced person, I inform you that on 25 January he was present at the cutting of pie for CEDEFOP workers, where he pledged - and there is the sound and video - to support a fair solution to the problem. Then he comes out on TV, as I told you, and he claims that the workers took money without being entitled to it, and they must return it. But I'm coming back to the point of the case. It is fair to regulate on the basis of the amendment we have tabled. It has also been done for workers in the prevention centres and for workers in the OKANA under article 41 of L.4320/2015. It has been voted by the large majority of the House, with the signature of Blondou and Polakis. We call for the amendment to be accepted. The Ministry, with two press releases which I present to you, has recognised the law of the request. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I shall now refer to some of the actions of the Ministry of Labour, which the Minister has spoken of as well as the Committee of the Regions during the debate on the draft law. He spoke of the two hundred and twenty Community centres in each municipality. But where's the rest up to four hundred and twenty-five? That is a question that remains unanswered. However, the regions, such as the Peloponnese Region, did not anticipate and others did not anticipate. The plan is therefore incomplete as it does not concern all the municipalities in the country. The Ministry of Labour said it complied with the SAPA procedures. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Following complaints from the Democratic Association and a question we tabled here in Parliament, the Attica Region withdrew four calls for NGOs that were not in line with the mobilisation of the AACC. But the same goes for the municipalities. One municipality takes into account - and rightly so - the entire service of work in the Poverty Structures, for example, whether the source of funding is European funds or national resources, while the other municipality only if the resources are European. Nationals do not take into account them. A written directive is needed to ensure that two standards do not apply. However, the current structures for dealing with poverty expire on 28 February. And because it seems that the new systems provided for by the new framework two, three months ago are not going to work, another extension is necessary, as we have pointed out to you the last time you have brought in the last two months. However, the government has also made a significant contribution to the issue we discussed, namely fire extinguishers. The obligation under the law was to incorporate in the first phase since this month two thousand trained and experienced firefighters in the Fire Corps and then the rest of them. Instead, following its characteristic indifference, it is now coming under a sloppy arrangement to impose obligations of permanent staff, but not the rights to firefighters for five years. He did not respect the law and he simply comes to take a deadline to keep the law within the next three years. And I now come to the derogations from legality. It may be the title of a series of acts of this government - which even receive legislative coverage with the hundreds of fifty three willing - but today I shall mention two, three. Unfortunately, derogations from legality have become a rule in the process of legislating by the government majority. A characteristic example is the parliamentary amendment by the four SYRIZA colleagues - I see one colleague at the moment - giving the Ministry of National Defence the right to conclude with third-party works and supply of goods by way of derogation from any relevant provision. Nice Members - representatives of the citizens, you are to safeguard the interests and the space of the citizens! Furthermore, the right to conclude contracts after private negotiations without publication - a contract notice, also by way of derogation from all procedures and national legislation. Did you see that in your sleep, ladies and gentlemen, and did you bring this amendment? Who indicated it to you? This is now a six-year appeal to the exceptions to legality and to the derogating legislation, which is becoming dangerous not only in budgetary terms, but mainly in terms of culture and transparency. But there's something else. Social policy in Greece is now being taken over by the Ministry of Defence and Mr. Kammenos. So, is this acknowledgment of the Ministry of Labour's inability to continue the policy of protecting and exploiting the welfare property and you grant it to the Minister of Defence? And I come to school lunches. We agree with their essential provision and intervention for meals, but we fully disagree with the procedure of direct delegation. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. As our rapporteur said, we have tabled some amendments which I believe should be accepted in order not to continue this story of exceptional award procedures, which if we combine with the majority decision to abolish preventive control over public expenditure from 1-1-2017, then we are talking about a time bomb for the rational and transparent management of budgets. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not possible to continue this derogating and exceptionally legalisation. We call on you to show your responsibility even now and to withdraw all the provisions which are being made for Mr Kammenos's private negotiations. Mercy! It is disgraceful that this procedure, for which you even call upon the 50 three to cover it legally and to be accountable - the fifty three - for what happens next. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u134	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, thirty-six students and students and two teachers - attending them from the 1st Nafpaktos High School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The first parliamentary representative, Mr Dannelis from Potami, has asked for the floor. So at this point I will interrupt the list of speakers. Here, Mr Dannelly, you have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u135	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, overdue liabilities totalling at least EUR 440 billion are burdening our national economy. In addition, the account rises at a rate of more than 2 billion a month. The ‘enterprise’ is drowned as one in two taxpayers cannot issue tax information, as the tax debts and the debtors exceed 4 million. The "business" is drowned when more than eight hundred and fifty thousand are found with committed bank accounts, while prospects of favorable regulation and the establishment of the irresponsible account do not exist because of the Memorandum commitment. And how banks can help 'enterprise', when red loans have exceeded EUR 107 billion, which now accounts for 45% of total loans. At the forefront of work, more than four hundred thousand workers do not receive their wages in the short term. On the same front, free professionals, over a million and a half people insured, are invited to pay contributions by the end of the month which have nothing to do with reality. In this economic environment, we are confronted with a legacy of decades, which was unfortunately swollen in the years of an antimony anger. In other words, the conviction that protest and claim are expressed with threats, insults, attacks, destruction of public or private property, vandalism, occupations and all kinds of illegal acts, which of course remain unpunished, precisely because they are consecrated by the sacred anger of the protesters. Thus, unspeakable bulbs, in the name of supposedly winter people, are once again attacking undisturbed by bus, which, of course, at 5.30 in the morning does not carry capitalists and bankers and almost daily destroy the new cancellation machines on buses and metro stations undisturbed. We have a daily disaster report. Of course, the agricultural trade unions, who were out here the other day, consider it self-evident, and this year, as they have tax and insurance in addition to other problems which have plagued the rural world in particular, that they are entitled unpunished to close roads, customs, border stations and airports. Yesterday at noon we had the bullies, supposedly students, covered by university asylum, sent to the hospital Professor Angelos Syrigos of the Panteion University. Fortunately, this is where we have an arrest. Let's take a look at it all the time. All these behaviours seem incomprehensible, not only for any favoured Western democracy, but for different reasons and for every authoritarian third world state. Violence, which dissolves society and the economy, is a cause and at the same time the result of losing the feeling of the community, the common identity and the pursuit of common objectives. We are neither a normal state nor just a family state. We're at the metaphor, no man's land. Ladies and gentlemen, on this basis, it is no coincidence that international public opinion shares two basic assessments of the country. Estimates demonstrating Greece's serious lack of credibility on the one hand, and on the other, our continued refusal to reconcile with reality. In the international debate concerning the country, one side argues that we are incapable of staying in the Eurozone, and so it is good to leave, while the other, although it agrees on our inadequacy, supports our stay for the sake of solidarity, but also of course also self-reservation, since the only thing that is missing in today's Europe would be the threat of Grexit. Are these unjust, extremes, hard or risky? The country has been living in recent months, for a long time since the crisis and support programmes began, the suffering of evaluation. For many years, we have watched an ill-famous prank at the expense of the country. And well, the extremist voices in the ranks of lenders who never hid their political pursuits and what Europe they envisioned, as well as the appetites that open up from constant government errors, retreats, delays, doubts. But are the Government's ministers, and also important officials, not aware of the risk of the situation? Some of the first loose and irresponsible stipulate that there is time, not to mention that day the account is becoming increasingly heavy on the Greek taxpayer's back. How can the Government negotiate by ignoring the borderline point of integration into quantitative relaxation and the escalating disastrous effects of this uncertainty on our so fragile economy in our daily lives? On the other hand, top executives of Officer Opposition secretly and obviously hope that the evaluation will not be completed so that the government will fall and take over in its place. Transparent saviors. In other words, the political system or a large part of the political system seems to be living in another parallel world. The result is the lack of credibility to escalate daily and, of course, the loss of confidence to be generalised. The problem of chronic, corrosive and sadly stable. On the other hand, we are obviously pleased about the Commission's winter forecasts. Primary surplus in 2016 2% compared with 0.5% target, 0.3% GDP growth, when the forecast was for a recession minus 0.3% and predicted growth for 2017 2.7% and 3.1% for 2018. Brilliant. To fight, as we all have to do, for the verification of forecasts. But not to silence the basic condition that the report expressly states that the second assessment of the ESM programme is to be completed and, of course, compliance with all the commitments we have made. The unfavourable development in one of the most important deprivations - or the most important - of the Greek one, nonetheless shows that we are aware of the need for speed with which we must complete our every obligation and every move towards creating a climate that supports healthy entrepreneurship. Ladies and gentlemen, let us not miss this opportunity of the positive economic momentum that we are going to fight. We all know that if there is no agreement now, if the irresponsible drachma and Grexit's dystopia remain at the table, the door will be closed and the last opportunity given to us. Let's not be fooled. Our appalling and inappropriate release from the bad troika leads us to mathematically, destroyed and third worldly now, to the exclusive arms of the IMF. There will be no more fuss. It will no longer be the exclusiveity of our relationship with the IMF. Awesome sounds, but once we didn't even want to believe that they might happen to us or that they might be next to us. Now, unfortunately, we must feel that he is next to us and that it is up to us to avoid them. On the ruins of the country old and new saviors, then, they will rush to take their new positions. But now they offer what? Ladies and gentlemen, at the current juncture that we are heading towards the perfect international storm, if not all of us take responsibility, if we do not try to reach agreement on the basis of a joint visionary plan that inspires the social majority, I fear that "land fire is reduced" will come as a fatal result. The Prime Minister should understand as long as there is still a time that the only way to close the debate on Grexit and prevent the shipwreck from returning to the drachma and exit to the third world is to close the evaluation now. I will only say a word about the main amendments that have been tabled. The parliamentary amendment which provides for the right to direct delegation by way of derogation from the existing legislation of high commissions to the Minister of National Defence, I think it has two intrinsic problems. Firstly, the methodology used. It is wrong to motivate the use of the privilege, the tool that Members have in their hands by the ministers who are interested in passing an amendment and for various reasons they do not table it as a ministerial amendment. This amendment is an extremist of competence, logic and methodology of ministerial amendment. It's wrong the methodology you're following, but it's wrong the substance. I think that the recent past, the questions raised by the implementation of these procedures and the questions which have not been answered give rise to any other way to support such an amendment. Mr Toska's amendment to the five-year term of firefighters is emblematic. We are aware of the major problems that exist in implementing the legal obligation, as envisaged in the initial regulation of their permanentisation at the time. But we must be honest. Existing problems must appear as such to the directly concerned, but also to us in order to gain the elementary credibility we must have towards the Greek citizens and to be able to close this gap in the best, most effective and certainly legal way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u136	Thank you, Mr. Dannelly. Mr. Georgiotis from New Democracy has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u137	I shall refer to Mr Toska's amendment in relation to firefighters. Ladies and gentlemen, things are very, very simple. This amendment should never have come to Parliament. This government has done too many times with the justification for any general and specific provision. This is the favourite way in which the present government is legislating. In a case where the state's obligation to simulate the five-year-old firefighters, which they were, came to the government and instead of doing the self-evident thing, that is, what was provided for by Law 3938/2011, brings this amendment. This impossibility, according to what has been said, is due to the fact that they are trying to resolve at the moment with lenders the question of whether or not these recruitments are in the recruitment ban. To take the theoretical scenario that it is not, which may be the right thing to do. What is simpler than waiting for a month to solve this issue with our lenders and the government to do what is due, that is, to simulate the two thousand and ninety three firefighters? The energy due, which you should have done earlier, but which is corrected in the next few days, is to wait a month and if we see that they are excluded, there is no question. There is the other way to include these recruitments in the general recruitment ban. There are very serious questions about how and how the government exercises government policy and legislates it. It's a question first. The need for these firefighters to become permanent staff has been known for five years under the law. No one refused this obligation of the state, and even the government, through the Minister, in the summer, adopted the relevant decisions, so that on the basis of the law and the criteria for the selection of criteria. And that's why we ended up in the number of two thousand ninety-three. On 9 June the Ministerial Decision, which provided for the relevant procedure, came into force. This state's obligation is known. It is well-known that it is personal that we really need. No one said we don't need this staff. We all say it in here. So why does the state bring about a renewal of their term of office for three years and continue a raid and a hostage? I have been detained here since discussing the bill, No.3938/2011, which was said by the then opposition, by Mr. Dritsa, "the hostage of these people must be stopped". And today you come and continue it for another three years! What for? Today Mrs. Gerovas should be here, but she's not. The state should have said why it has not made the right planning of the right recruits so that it is obliged, this necessity, to fulfil it. And why isn't this programming? Ms. Gerovasili says the planned posts for 2017-2018 have been reached. To come here and tell us where the positions have been spent in the past two years and what this programming is. If they're doctors, for intensive treatment units or for somewhere else, say 'yes' and they have to be inside. If they are teachers 'yes' to say, they too must be. Should this state not, at last, make a hierarchy of its priorities, of the need to serve the services concerned on the basis of its real needs and not on the basis of any rhetorical wishes? I have registered parliamentary amendments that came here, accepted by ministers, concerned a large number of workers, and with which certain fixed-term contracts were suddenly converted into indefinite ones. And that figure, ladies and gentlemen, is the number that is forbidden at the moment, which does not allow the government to take the particular firefighters as permanent staff. It would be very good to have a detailed picture of what has been done to date, by way of derogation from all general and specific provisions - which is the favourite expression of this government - to see what has not been predicted properly, what has not been properly legislated. It cannot go on with this infatuation and this hostage. These firefighters have fulfilled all their obligations, all the trials that were planned, on the basis of the law that was then passed by the House by a vast majority - perhaps even unanimously, I do not remember it - and now we are coming and state that we cannot fulfil this obligation, and even without explaining precisely the reasons. The government is becoming unreliable in this way and gives the right to us - and not the unfounded right - to claim that, even if it was able to hire them - because I believe it has - it wants to leave the 'window' open. If he takes the two thousand ninety-three firefighters as permanent staff today, tomorrow no parliamentary amendment can be accepted in this House. I therefore believe that the relevant Minister should bring in a detailed statement of the recruitment report that has taken place over the last two years and those which he has planned for the next two. Because I am sure that the possibility exists, but if the government does not get rid of it today, it will not be able to continue with its rhetoric toys. This smuggling must be stopped, we must start working with the rules that we ourselves are establishing, we are legislating ourselves, and in any case they must be explained here in which cases we can overcome these self-restrictions for reasons of public interest alone, but after a detailed debate has taken place. It didn't happen, but it wasn't given. It's just that the government manages two things. It keeps these people hostage and leaves the window open for any amendments tomorrow. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u138	Thank you. Mr Yoyakas from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u139	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the discussions in the committee were recognised as the Ministry's intention to address the various problems that have arisen with the National Loader Register of Law 4093/2012. It remains to be seen from the ministerial decisions that will be adopted if there will be a substantial opening-up of the profession, which was the main objective of the previous bill. The joint ministerial decision referred to in Article 4(1) will, for example, determine how easy the entry of unemployed or unskilled into the cargoer's profession is, and it is certainly necessary that common and simple ministerial decisions should be adopted quickly and not with the Arab, as your Government has used to. Important improvements are also the certification of skills by the EEAS or a private body approved by the National Accreditation System, as well as the electronic registration process. We have also seen with satisfaction that our request has been accepted to increase the period of three months to those loaders already in registrant B and want to remain in this register, because that will enable more people to complete the minimum work experience required for port and land loaders. As far as the National Register of Private Social Care Entities is concerned, most of our objections were answered by the relevant Minister. It is a general register in which the bodies providing care services, whether they are certified or not, will be registered. It is important, however, that the coexistence of two independent registries does not create bureaucracy and more administrative burdens. It remains, of course, the question of whether operators will be able to update their data in real time. As is open if and whether this register will not remain a simple index, but will evolve into an evaluation tool for private social care providers and will help better assess social protection services, as the legislator seeks. In fact, Minister, Article 11 has been withdrawn, which would provide important solutions to many rural areas where particularly people from neighbouring countries are used uninsured. It could give solutions as they would be entitled to remain their unemployment card active. However, I will now close my speech with two comments on the amendments to school meals and firefighters. I do not think many people disagree on the basis of the initiative, that malnutrition and child obesity are two existing problems and need to be addressed in the school environment. Once again, ladies and gentlemen, one is asking one question: since the government wants to implement it piloted from this year, why did it have to reach the middle of the school year to find out that the international competition is taking enough time and that it has to resort to a direct assignment to give the first to Easter? I'm sorry, but you're losing your right, Minister, and you're entitled to those who, including the New Democracy, are blaming you for sloppy and administrative failure. It is not just a question of legitimacy, Minister, it is also a question of transparency. After all, you have given us many reasons - not you personally - on this issue. That is why we call for the amendment to be withdrawn and for competition to be conducted, as provided for in Greek and European legislation. I come, ladies and gentlemen, to the amendment to the five-year obligation firemen. It had to be over eight months since the ministerial decision, which would regulate, among other things, the process of permanentising fire extinguishers. You did not use the 2014 Law that enabled the permanentisation before the end of the five-year term, by adopting a joint ministerial decision. You have not predicted the cost of the simulations in this year's budget for the Fire Corps. You left firefighters without information on their fate a few days before the end of their term of office and you are now coming to permanently with a promise of three years, after you have previously plucked the public with intakes out of procedure, from the 'Window', without evaluation, without cost assessment and the real needs of the public. And very well Mr. Vorides, Mr. Georgiodas and Mr. Charakopoulos have set you up a series of parameters for how easy it is to make the recruits of firefighters, to permanently permanent them directly, and today, with two presidential decrees that do not need much time. But the Minister said that these recruitments were partisan. So the problem is not the process or the way. It's possible that the recruits of the fire extinguishers were party. And today you come to say with the Minister that 'we do not permanently, because the recruitment was partisan'. So bring me legislative improvements. The Democratic Partnership, but above all we, the New Democracy, our resignation, had anticipated all these procedures and we now demand that the firefighters be made permanent. I sincerely hope that you will embrace these people's anxiety. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u140	Thank you. Mr Papadopoulos has the floor from SYRIZA. Another parliamentary representative has not been prepared?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u141	Slowly.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u142	They want to talk after the Minister. So, you're going to precede, Mrs. Fotou. Mr. Papadopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u143	Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law we are debating has a number of positive regulations which find a wider acceptance, with interventions and amendments which are also useful, in order to resolve a number of issues. I must point out that some of the comments made could really be taken into account in order to improve the whole draft law which is tabled along with its amendments. I think that the setting-up of a National Register of Loaders and equivalent for private care providers - about a thousand five hundred - was necessary. Especially if we are to be able to force all those private care providers to register electronically in the registers, without renouncing the autonomy of the cooperative, it is good enough. Public control of social and pro-active services, sound and efficient management of social resources, coordination and evaluation of the quality of services provided by private non-profit bodies and voluntary organisations for vulnerable social groups shall be strengthened. At the same time, there is also a number of other arrangements for which we have made a detailed presentation. In particular, Mrs Jufi, who is responsible for this sector in our parliamentary group, made a very good and documented presentation of all these improvements. At the same time, the possibility of taking up information projects from the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity and Health, due to the expertise in all their fields and responsibilities, is absolutely necessary. For example, I mention the work of the National Monitoring and Evaluation Mechanism for social inclusion and cohesion policies, with the single geo-information system, with registries of potential beneficiaries, bodies, social protection programmes. I think, therefore, that if we look at the whole of the interventions, we must make a number of points which need to be made. On school-leaving interventions - which are not just about dealing with poor pupils - I think the need for a food model that can show our schools the particular need for healthy food, which is very useful and which will enable us, when it is completed, to talk about a very important intervention in healthy food. I think that some proposals have been made so that we can accept a number of adjustments for the hundreds of doses and to use the mistress as a tool for improvements in the agricultural sector as well, although I think it can be used in other areas where this intervention on public revenue is necessary and transparent. I would like to point out that some of the proposals that have been made help our overall approach to consultation and that is quite useful ahead of the crucial meeting of Monday, the Eurogroup. I think it should be pointed out that it is not possible to propose a forehead in which the intervention of many of the important people involved in the formation of Community policy, such as the Vice-Chancellor of Germany, Pitella, the former President of the European Parliament and many other important personalities, is used to make use of the intervention of many of the important people involved in the development of Community policy, such as the Vice-Chancellor of Germany, Pitella, the former President of the European Parliament and of many other important persons, and to have a presence in the Disabled Opposition. Some of you can be differentiated, I think, from Mr. Mitsotakis' personal anxiety to become Prime Minister. Because this issue is not accompanied by all the data that comes before us about the course and perspective of the Greek economy. We have heard it in the Commission's report now and in the meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs and the Governor of the Bank of Greece. This disastrous picture you give of the course of the Greek economy is inconsistent with all the data that comes forward and document that in order to achieve a 2% increase in primary surpluses in a difficult year as it was in 2016, Greece took advantage of the sacrifices made. This information enables us, therefore, to go to the Eurogroup meeting and, indeed, to substantiate that this country can help to relaunch its economy, to relaunch it, to move into the virtuous phase, including our capacity to make use of quantitative relaxation, but also of the large development packages which give the impression that eight hundred and one thousand, so far, major business proposals have the potential to be exploited from what has been done so far in development law. So I think that on this front of logic - those who really see the need for our country to go to a stage that deserves, by exploiting the work, the various opportunities of efficient employment that exist and the children who have had to emigrate abroad - we can say that the country now has a visible opportunity to tell you that the elections will take place in 2019. We will use all this time for all of our mature areas, necessary reforms, which through our parallel programme will enable us to say that we are contributing to the overall production, administrative, development reconstruction of this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u144	Thank you. Mr. Cryazides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u145	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam President, Madam Minister, the mere descendants of the Stephen Members referred to the parallel programme. Obviously, the question of tabling this amendment is also one of five-year obligation firefighters. It is a disgrace to us, ladies and gentlemen. And in the context of the amendment, it refers to this in one, I would say, indicative way, by insulting an Agency, people who devote their lives to duty, by saying here that they were supposedly created a reasonable expectation that they would eventually join the Firefighting Agency as permanent personnel. But it's reasonable. Last year there was a ministerial decision by the Sanctions Deputy Minister, Mr Toska, who provided for the accession procedures, that is to say, to submit supporting documents, to pass through control, through phases of crisis councils. All these people in a six-month process have indeed been judged and you are coming now and you are telling them 'crowd'. How can anyone believe you? Didn't you have any idea? But there's a ministerial decision. All these fellow citizens have passed from a six-month process in the hope that they will finally join the Fire Corps. And now you come and tell them that they're going to stay up for another three years? What's the matter? And you have put them in such a process that, yes, they will go into the transfer systems, reinforce airports on the islands, etc., they will be removed from their families, because they will have to follow these regulations as permanent staff. And how do you look at them in the eyes? They're wondering themselves. There were five years of obligation both in the police and in the military, the special guards, the PDO. These people and fellow citizens joined them as long as they were previously judged to be capable. What are you telling them today? That you're incapable? Is this the Parallel Program, Mrs. Fotio? Is that what you've been evangelizing for so long? That because it will be in a timely phase, you will have your strong "inflammations", i.e. define the way you define. In every bill that comes here you create an address, an address, a General Secretariat, only to "inject" to cover the limit allowed by these lenders.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u146	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u147	What am I saying? The Minister said so, that we are awaiting approval from the institutions. And you gave them a license up to 19-02 so that there would be such a possibility. Didn't you hear the Minister, Minister? That's what he said, isn't it?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u148	You weren't here when he was talking. Did you hear him?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u149	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u150	Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u151	So, does he have to be in the Chamber? If he saw him on TV, isn't that the same thing?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u152	We get it. But we say I heard him genuinely. I was here.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u153	But didn't I just say that? That you're in a conciliation procedure and at the last minute, 10-02, when the term of office ended?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u154	Don't vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u155	But if we can vote! Is it possible to vote on this, to have people who should already be guaranteed in the sense of their service and their mission in three years' time? I am very sorry that you continue and have this practice and this tactic. Now how you look at all those people in the eyes, this is your case. And the confusion - which you are saying here - prevailed on the basis of all these procedures and so on. - not all of them, but it's about you. I don't know if there's any confusion in your skull! Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u156	Thank you for the brief. There's a speaker who hasn't come yet. So I give the Minister the floor. The Minister has the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u157	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, today's sitting has found some interesting issues to highlight, firstly, the 'inability of the government'.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u158	You don't need much trouble!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u159	I imagine this is the motto you have to prove every day. Your inability to five, six years of the memorials where you have done absolutely nothing, you have forgotten it! I'll come to that, too. The second is how the government tries, over and above the laws of the State or Community law, to award awards, to dismantle public money, etc. This is the climate today. It was not, of course, the climate within the parliamentary committees, where we discussed thoroughly, and I think that with great calm and understanding a bill which, in its vast majority, the whole House is voting on. It shall vote on it either in accordance with Article, or in principle, or it shall say 'no' in principle, but 'yes' in the articles, but shall vote on it. This is the given of this bill. I therefore do not intend to refer to the bill, which is a good bill, and you know it and you have all consented to it and you are voting on it. I am going to go further on the issues on which there have been objections, on the other hand, and other proposals and so on. One thing is this, once again, for those who have some doubts. Mrs. Christophilopoulou is back. I think it's covered.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u160	What about me? You're wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u161	I'm wrong, Mrs. Christophilopoulou. You didn't come back. I therefore think that you have all been covered by the legislative improvement we have made, which is clear, that HRB cannot outsource work, not just in the public, that is to say, the public, that is to say, to take work from the public of European states. I hope that this is clear now and it has been clear to all of us. I have said several times that HRP has at the moment had very large projects and has proved its ability as a public body. A second point of abrasion - I think this too - was the National Register for private-law legal persons. And I say this too, because, as I understand it, you are all convinced that this is a National Register in which all legal persons under private law are required and monitored, since they offer social care services to the State. And I realized that you consented to that, too. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Anastassios Kourakis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] You wanted more clarification from me, if I understood it well, which I am giving it to you, if the new register, namely, will be linked to all the existing ones, and if we are really trying to have a great deal of transparency even for those bodies which are not financed by the State. For example, the Athens Elderly is not funded by the state. But there must be transparency of all its elements, otherwise it would not be enough for the Athens Elderly, an institution that has the largest assets in the Greek state - eight hundred properties - to have thirty months of unpaid workers today, work promises, 30 million debts, and it goes on to say. This is the one side of all these legal persons of private law, NGOs, charitable associations, etc. The other aspect is, for example, the NGOs, who are really important and are doing a great job, such as the Children's SOS, such as the Save the Children, such as PRAKSIS, which I want to pay tribute to today to Janeto Andypa, who is now in charge of PRAKSIS, a man of vision, a man of great knowledge, a young man. That's a big loss we lost him. We had him from the first moment our enthusiastic partner, passionate about the problems of both the refugee and the homeless. The bus for the homeless was his own initiative and his own business. Thousands of our suggestions could take them immediately below with his knowledge and great love and passion and knowledge. And I pay him this tribute from here officially to see that when I really talk about all these legal persons under private law and the NGOs, I don't slap them all at the same level. Let's go to school lunch now. Mrs Christophilopoulou, I accept your legislative improvement at the point where you are intervening and for obesity, that is to say, in terms of hygiene. I'll take that and put it on. But, Mrs Christophilopoulou, I didn't understand anything. We either have not agreed or the New Democracy has not agreed with us. We, with this amendment, are officially launching a major 11 million meal programme for 2017, the award of which will be based on international competitions. This is 11 million meals! I refer to the eleven million EUR 24.300,000 meals. Why didn't we start it sooner? Because the money was found in January and we were able for the first time to be given to us in the first bill that came here - namely - immediately put the amendment so that we could set up school meals in our country with a threefold aim: education, humanitarian and health reasons for the new generation. That's the first. That trifle, I think you're all saying it's a good thing. But where is "but"? The 'but' is that you do not want a pilot project to be implemented until Easter, which will start the eleven million meals for the whole year. How many meals are going to be up to Easter? It's three hundred and fifty thousand meals. And what's going on in Thessaloniki, where we all started this pilot program and we're working on it all this time and we're trying it? We've found the schools and these ten thousand kids. This is therefore a pilot project which will be implemented by Easter, i.e. three hundred and fifty thousand meals in ten thousand children for thirty-five days. That's it. That is what the eleven million is all about. The Greek Chamber of Deputies regretted the great failure by the government to grant these, by way of derogation from the procedures of international competition, when, first of all, we have respect for the Community directive. In other words, according to Article 5(d) and Article 5(f) ‘it is possible to use the direct award if the estimated value of the contract is less than EUR 750 000’. It's like the General Accounting Report of the State. Secondly, we appealed from 3 February to the agreement of EFSA, namely the Independent Public Procurement Authority, and had a unanimous opinion. I put it in the Minutes all the explanatory statement of the EFSA since 3 February, which is unanimous. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister, Mr Theanos Fotio, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Do you know what he'll say by unanimity? EASA is an independent authority whose members are appointed by the previous government and some of them. So she's not a syriatic. It is unanimous that we can do it and we must do it. What exactly are you all talking about? That there's a scary corruption story going on? That is what you are telling me at the moment, with all the guarantees we have secured for a pilot project in specific municipalities in Thessaloniki and which municipalities say: 'Why are you stalling'? Mrs Christophilopoulou, I do not understand your amendment on the other points. For it is an amendment and not a legislative improvement. What exactly are you telling me? Do the municipalities do this, thirty-five days, ten thousand children? The specific municipalities of Thessaloniki? Is that what you're telling me? And then do they do so in the urgency procedure that I say or not? Or with the international competition? What exactly are you saying to me? We are talking about three hundred thousand meals compared with eleven million. The mayors made an announcement these days. All mayors have been found in Thessaloniki. "Why don't you start - we're told - after you told us that these municipalities will become?" What do you say I understand? Because I didn't understand. Are we going with emergency for the ten thousand meals or not? Or am I going with "three months later", as I go to all of Greece? Because I really don't know what I'm saying here anymore. I have seen the SYRIZA Members' amendment, and I have to tell you that I think it very seriously and we are discussing it with the Minister in order to make it acceptable. But to explain what's going on here, too. 'New SYRIZA scandal here'. I've heard terrible things that we're giving the money in white to Kammenos to do whatever the Kammenos wants, like there's no Department of National Defence. Isn't the Department of National Defence here? Isn't there a process in which the army worked and did specific things in the refugee? What did we do last time? We had done this, ladies and gentlemen: we had taken properties located in our supervised bodies, social protection centres, namely. Thirteen of them are all over Greece. You know very well that we have licensed properties in good condition, but with a paint they're ready, but they're not and want a little more work. We had taken real estate, therefore, because we thought the unaccompanied refugee should be in these institutions which are also the unprotected Greeks. We don't think he should be somewhere else. So we took eight such homes throughout Greece, we as the Ministry of Labour at that time, from our supervised bodies and with NGOs who had money, because they had money in the refugee sector, NGOs built the buildings, and that is where we unprotectedly put unaccompanied refugees. I didn't realize that was illegal. You tell me today. I knew then and I know there's a state law that says about the refugee crisis that in the case... [[At this point the doorbell ends the speech time of the Minister is ringing.]] Mr President, do me a favor, because we need to explain here. I am not saying that everyone should vote against it, but to explain. Well, he said then, and the law says that for the refugee crisis you can commission directly - and the money was made by the NGOs, by assignment, directly out, to do these things to you. So they did these jobs. These buildings have been improved. In other words, the property of the Greek state, in our view, needs to be improved and it must house the refugees instead of paying the rent left - right. In the end, the property of the Greek state must be improved so that, when the refugee is finished and the unaccompanied have found a place in the sun, they can enter Greek birds. Do you not agree with this, or should we eat the money of the refugee crisis as tunnels on the left - right? That's what we did then. What did we say now? Now the IMI, the fund, which officially takes the money for the refugee. We've been thinking all this time if we have any other real estate. We've got a lot of real estate. Members are now taking a step and saying: These properties, Mrs Fotio, which we know you have, as a ministry and supervised bodies, to be able to be quickly built. This story still says that eight hundred unaccompanied minors are somewhere - others in the departments, others in camps, etc. - to enter decently and at the same time to build public property, because public property is public, since all of them are public bodies. What should we understand? That's what the MPs say. Isn't that good? Is he doing something wrong? To withdraw it, to withdraw it by the Members, we shall not accept it. But are you making a huge mistake by raising up this whole story? Do you really want the money to be given elsewhere, not the public? Let me get this straight at the end of the day.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u162	It says here.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u163	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u164	I'm the one who's here, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u165	So here it is, clearly. You don't want to do it like that? How do you do it?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u166	Exceptionally
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u167	You know very well that for refugee matters this is all excluded. You know that better than I do. What exactly do you want? Do not keep unaccompanied. That's what you want. Now let's go further.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u168	To be housed, to be competitive, as has always been done. That's what we want. We didn't say they wouldn't be housed. You say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u169	I can hear you, Mr rapporteur, very carefully, as you can hear me. I just want to say one more word. You asked me today for the CRL numbers. Let me give it to you. Today's CRL figures are that two hundred thousand of our fellow citizens are already beneficiaries of the CRL. That means that up to seven hundred thousand we go very well, because seven hundred thousand are the number we've estimated for all year round. This is the first time that within 15 days two hundred thousand people have a dignity card that says they are beneficiaries and they know and how much money they will get, because the paper says it. As far as these beneficiaries are concerned, we have transferred these files and transferred them to PPC every day, everywhere, so that we can do this work so that they can also enjoy services, that is, reduced electricity from social tariffs, water. They will be beneficiaries of the ETA, the Resident Fund, will be beneficiaries of the nursery facilities, will be beneficiaries of the medical care, etc. and 10% of the unemployed will get into work in 2017. This is the CRL. It's not just money. And that's why we tell the Greek people to be a little patient, it's a great need. You didn't do it any further forward. What can we do? We are doing so and we are now implementing it at a national level. Let's go down. I will say two words about poverty structures and what happens with community centres and poverty structures in all the municipalities of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u170	And with this, Minister, to complete your position.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u171	I shall conclude, Mr President. We have a detailed guide in relation to how it's done. We've got a CIA out. It's all legally regulated. The municipalities can't hire anyone they want. They'll hire on the basis of their legal persons - and here's a story - or directly in the municipality. We have no opportunity to say anything different to the municipalities. Or, on the basis of the circumstances, their legal persons or by direct appointment to the municipality are recruited under APA procedures. It's enough that we hire the sieves! That's enough! I mean, it can't stand it! And you know why he can't stand it? You're being eaten by the injustice other than the others. Villages that we've been late all this time because we're doing this process. Does not anyone remember or are you all without memory that in 2007 all those who are working on poverty structures - and are only sixty-six municipalities, of which forty-four in Attica - all of them were hired by NGOs, by your mayors or by the mayors anyway? Who doesn't know that? What exactly do you say, ladies and gentlemen? Have we forgotten everything? And because now we don't do it with NGOs, do it with S.H.I.E.L.D., do you judge me already? Do I? What can I say? Is that the white one? It can't be done. It's got short feet. Understand? It has a lot of close legs, like there were various things you were saying and it turns out in practice to be the backwards.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u172	Good, Minister. Thank you to the Deputy Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity Mr. Theanos Fotio. Ladies and gentlemen, before I give the floor to the Minister, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, thirteen students and students, as well as two fellow professors from the American University Penn State Bucknell. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I also have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, thirty-six students and students, as well as two teachers from the 1st High School of Nafpaktos (second section). The House welcomes you. To inform students and students, students and students that we are discussing a bill from the Ministry of Labour. We are in the process of acceding Members. Now, soon after that, of course, you will have the opportunity to hear the Minister and then other colleagues from the parties will speak and vote towards this afternoon, where this bill will become the law of the state. Continue with the placement of the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity Mr.Achtzioglou. Here, Minister, you have the floor for eighteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u173	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today the bill for the National Log of Loaders and the National Register of Private Social Care Entities. There has been quite a detailed discussion in committee about this bill. I think it was interesting and we made the necessary corrections. And as far as the bodies are concerned, we have incorporated almost all the comments made by the federation. You will allow me a few words, as the rapporteurs did, except for the bill and then a few words about the bill. I do not want to break the parliamentary procedure when a bill is being discussed, but there are no things left unanswered. Ladies and gentlemen, we have heard the rapporteur from the New Democracy, on the occasion of the debate on the bill, make an overall position on the employment situation in the country, accusing the co-responsibility for working relationships to be dismantled during her own days, elasticized the whole framework for the protection of work, reduced the whole pension system, increased unemployment, increased flexible working relationships, rotating work, part-time work, etc. rapporteur, New Democracy, I think you're confusing.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u174	I think not.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u175	The legislative framework that deregulationed and optimised labour relations was what was adopted between 2010 and 2015. The 2012 Ministerial Act was the one that gave the final blow to the institution of collective bargaining and collective bargaining, an institution for which this government has been negotiating for months to restore. It was not SYRIZA's government, which legalised individuals' associations to negotiate virtual with employers in micro-enterprises. It was not the SYRIZA government that made horizontal reductions to the minimum wage of 22% and 32% for young people under twenty-five years. It was not the SYRIZA Government that abolished the expansion of sectoral collective agreements, for which it is now negotiating for months to restore it. It was not the SYRIZA Government that abolished the principle of more favourable regulation when collective labour agreements, which existed for years, were conquered by workers for the benefit of workers. It wasn't the SYRIZA government that erupted unemployment from 10% to 27%. It is the government of SYRIZA that reduced it by three percentage points, and again it clarifies that this is not a reason to rejoice. It wasn't the SYRIZA government that blew up the elastic working relationships. The evidence doesn't help you. Part-time and rotary employment went up by twenty percentage points from July 2013 to July 2014. During the period of the SYRIZA government there was an increase of 2%. I think, however, that structural change, transformation occurs when there is a change of twenty percentage points, not when there is a change of two percentage points. We have managed to restrain it again, and we have made it clear that this is in no way a reason to rejoice. On the contrary, you in 2014 spoke about success story. We say we are making a year of stabilisation in 2016. Our phrase is "one year of stabilisation", when 136,000 jobs are recorded in "ERGANI", when unemployment falls by three to four percentage points, when part-time and rotary employment remain at very high levels, but a brake is entered when we negotiate to restore collective agreements. Everyone can understand what happened, what happens and what we're trying to do. I repeat that under no circumstances will you hear from me or from the representatives of the Ministry of Labour that we make large statements about the situation on the labour market, which is dramatic and which we are fighting every day to restore. That is why we are giving the Labour Inspectorate a great deal of power, so that we can, together with the restoration of the institutional framework, which we hope will soon achieve, put an end to the employer's arbitraryness that has found fertile soil throughout this period to be cultivated and lead to the unacceptable phenomena that we are following every day or in relation to how wages are paid, if they are paid, in the way that gifts are paid or not given, in the way that workers are blackmailed in order to sign individual contracts of employment on manual terms. I'm going to go through the bill for the National Loader Register, as far as Part One is concerned. The second part was recommended by Mrs Fotou. Under Articles 1 to 6, the institutional framework of the National Log of Loaders shall be re-adjusted. The arrangements were made because there were malfunctions in the implementation of Law 4093/2012 at the procedural level, but also at the substance level. The main objective of the regulation is to protect the working rights and, in particular, to protect workers' health and safety in the loading and unloading of goods and, in particular, in the most dangerous work, those in register II, that is to say where one is to be entered in register II to carry out them. The proposed provisions shall be redefined in a rational and simple way, and the registration procedure shall be abolished, and arrangements shall be made which create malfunctions and interpretative confusions and specified in the registration procedure, so that it can now be done electronically to facilitate workers. Two - three substantive clarifications. Law 4093/2012 provided for a single register of freighters for both land and ports. This is not the case in international practices. The new institutional framework provides for a single register I. However, it introduces discrimination at level II, namely difficult, dangerous work for land and ports. At the same time, the migration to register II, while so far it has only been through training, is now now possible - after the workers' requests - mainly through experience. In other words, one needs to have practical experience in order to be able to get through to register II. Because many times in discussions and committees Members have said that it is not exactly clear how one goes to register II, I think the procedure is quite clear. In Article 2(5), it is described that in order to be entered in register II, in the case of ports, an eighty or ninety brands are needed and the certification of skills, while in the case of land register II there is a need for eighty seals or forty seals and the certification of skills, which he has acquired during his work in simple loading operations, the ones for ports need registry I. The new framework does not abolish education programmes. However, it provides for this combination, on the one hand, because practical experience is needed, on the other hand, to facilitate workers who do not pass through these training programmes - which, in any case, did not work in the past - and, on the other hand, sets a relatively strict framework for the performance of dangerous loads on the basis of the safety of workers. I think, in general, that there was a consensus on this chapter in this bill among most parties. I would like to say two words about the amendments. I would like to table a legislative improvement in the draft law. Article 4(2) is essentially authorised to issue a Ministerial Decision only to the Minister of Labour. It is also added to the Minister for Finance. In other words, a joint Ministerial Decision may be authorized.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u176	The second amendment which I must describe and suggest is the amendment that comes from our Ministry, which concerns the legality of the costs of the single social security institution and the legality of the OGA and NAT grant costs. I would like to make it clear here that this amendment is for purely technical reasons, there is no substantial change. In other words, the financing of ECAA and OGA and NAT for non-insurance is already provided for under Law No.4387/2016, the insurance law, is already provided for in Article 2(2) to finance the national pension and Article 2(5) for the State’s guarantee obligation towards the insurance system. We are simply making a technical clarification here, because the Public Accountancy Act provides that there must be an explicit provision of the Law on any public expenditure. In other words, the state grant should be explicitly provided for, and it was necessary to make this printing in the law by means of this amendment. Ministerial amendments tabled for school meals are accepted for firefighters, FBI, OGA and NAT, which I recommended. Your electricity was recommended by Mr. Stathakis, who was previously here. For the amendments I will put to the end again. I think that is all I had to say at the moment. I didn't use all the time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u177	Thank you to Mrs Efi Ahtsoglou, Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity. We are entering the list of parliamentary representatives. As has been requested, and as has been agreed, Mr Loverdos, a parliamentary representative of the Democratic Alliance, has the floor for twelve minutes. Here, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u178	Ladies and gentlemen, I also intended to make a few references, of course with opposition, but around the draft law, strengthening the arguments of Mrs Christophilopoulou, Mr Kegeroglou and Mr Papatheodorou on the plans for amendments. You will allow me, starting with my speech, to make a reference to an amendment and then to make a general statement on the subject of the responsibility of the Members of this House today. I will do so because there were very challenging reports by Mrs Fotioux and also by Mrs Ahtsoglou. So I am going to talk about insurance in general and about the issues of this ministry, but I am making a reference to the issues of fire-fighting. This morning I asked the President-in-Office of the Communist Party all the ministers who have brought amendments to speak together so that I and other Members with clarification questions can see what the content of the amendments they have put forward. Mr Toskas said, therefore, in reply to my question that they do not apply Law 3938/2011 on five-year-old firefighters and that they were expected to be permanently permanent and explain that the necessary regulations were not in place and therefore technical issues have not been settled. I told him that the Chamber is totally willing - the issue is on top of time as a controversial issue for many days - and the ministry is making it all possible to solve it by night. It responds to me: 'Yes, but also to organic positions'. Obviously! And it says there a few words about half the number of recruitments, about years, etc. This government, and especially the Ministry of Labour, Minister - perhaps not you, but the Deputy Ministers - have not brought in any legislative intervention without establishing services and new posts. Permanently bring Special Secretariats, General Secretariats, Divisions. You're always bringing something. This is indeed a general question of the government. You are constantly setting up new positions. What's wrong with you? Isn't it your election clientele? Why did you do this by bringing an amendment today for three years? These people are perpetuating a problem. Why? What's the explanation? Explanation doesn't exist. The explanation that there have been no legislation is inadequate. Consistently, with two paragraphs, you solve these issues and technical balances with employees, while respecting Law 3939/2011, with legality and absolute security for people and certain services. You don't want that. In order to vote - I think Mrs Christophilopoulou and Mr Papatheodorou were clear - we want the regulation not to be three years old. The three years are long and give the impression - at least to us, but also to them - that the problem is being referred back and not resolved. A shorter transition period would be a safer route. Although this is inconsistent with the terms, there is no contradiction. On the contrary, elementary minds and logic ends up there. A shorter time limit shall indicate the availability of immediate solutions. Secondly, we call for the last paragraph of the amendment to be left because with it for the same people as for the service they exercise, the same obligations and other rights or obligations and less rights are laid down. Respect for the principle of equality, above all, but also the common political logic, requires that you remove the last paragraph. Mr. Toskas isn't here. They are, however, two members of the Ministerial Council who can make the consensus but also the specific change. If this change does not happen, we will not vote. This is clear from our point of view. And because we were provoked, is it possible for this government to compare itself to previous judgments? Is it possible for this government - which has been throwing stones for so many years and lied and has not helped anywhere - to make comparisons when we have seen what we have seen and only one, two lectures by the Minister have justified the criticism that has been made? In fact, only if someone reads these dictionaries otherwise, and not as she said, can she realize that there is a dose of self - criticism in her words. Because, ladies and gentlemen, people were not elected as good managers - their scare! - but as something else. And ours was treacherous, and theirs was ethnic stimulant. These were the patriots, these were the terrible ones, they knew it all, and we were traitors, and we sold it all out. That's what they said! Now we're being played by political and administrative masters who aren't! However, there is no area in which we have seen improvement and the quality of the labour market do not favour composting. When you admit this 2% more, this change in the labour market, then we may even understand that you sometimes have a self-criticism in relation to what you promised, rather than what the country is facing, and now you are the proxy of the people to deal with. Either way, Mrs Ahtsoglou, with your speech today less, but above all with your first speech - which I have had the opportunity to follow - you fully accept the past before you. You fully accept your opposition past. So let's go see some specific things about your sector. I would remind you, as far as your opposition is concerned, that you promised the thirteenth pension. You didn't like our insurance - for which I was chiefly responsible and was Mr.3863/2010 - but you wanted to open it again and start with Mr. Solis and Mr. Skourletis the shit. You brought provisions here and the House was voting on it. And we told you that it would be 'you vote'. And it's time for you to take it - vote it all! But by bringing in provisions contrary to the insurance system at that time and not applying its regulations, you have opened the insurance system, not the subsidiary and zero deficits - which were ours and the right ones - but the main body of the insurance company, ignoring that the proportionality principle, but also the European Commission and the troika, were then giving tens of years to the insurance company. And what started to happen since you changed the watch and signed the third unnecessarily inappropriate memorandum? You yourself brought the Memorandum of Reduction in the main health pensions is assumed - if they go to health - by a certain percentage. You've increased contributions, that is! This concerns specific categories of workers, employers and pensioners. This is a very big issue. Secondly, with the logic of your insurance system you have cut everything. He was saying the Minister of September - October 2015 - to remember your second self - that he is not going to make cuts, but that he will change the architecture of the system and find resources. You've been dismantling all benefits and the NSA above all. And the cuts in the main pensions to a small extent are still given, while the personal difference comes - your wrestling! - to see how it will be applied. Ladies and gentlemen, to support what I am saying, I would like to give you some specific examples: The grant to the Equity Fund of Officials in December 2015 was EUR 92. Genoris, February, March, after: 84 euros. April 2016: EUR 42. July 2016: EUR 22. A simple example of consequences from SYRIZA governance. Secondly, I will mention an example, mainly of insurance content: an employee, insured in the IKA. When he did a second job, since he had full insurance at the IKA, we did not impose any additional charges on him. By the law of Mr Katrugalos - who would not make cuts, he would not make any increases, he would not make any increases in contributions, he would do nothing wrong, he would do everything in favour of the people - that man who is forced to go to second work with a fee of EUR 500 a month, has to pay the OAU EUR 150, without his insurance fund providing him with the slightest service. That's not what we've done. That's what you did. And we're going on with the substance of the contributions. I shall not refer to Mr Petropoulos. His murmurs were completely opposed to your position today, but I will make a reference to those who hear us out of Ethiopia. It's days when the FBI determines his relationships with the insured freelance professionals. What happens to freelance professionals with a number of years of work and an income logic that would have given them the oldest years in the middle class, I cannot describe it to you. I'm an active lawyer and I have a sense of space to an absolute degree. We are now going to some people to whom the levy is being reduced, and those are not few. I warned in all my speeches - whether I am in Athens or on tours outside, whether I speak to the central media or to regional - that it is important to make a small economy per month from now, because the hole formed in the area of insurance in Greece, as the contributions made - and for those who can do more about those who cannot - in June for those who cannot - prepare supplementary 'buyourdi'. There is no way the system will come out, as Mr Katrugalos, the SYRIZA and the ANELs as a parliamentary majority. We're already in mid-February. The gaps created, the hole created will impose interference. We'll see who these are. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Let's go to other issues. The gift to legal corporations what is it? Ladies and gentlemen, are we aware that in the law firms, where the lawyer, the worker is paid and giving proof, does he have a block, which we say, that 100% of the contribution pays? The contribution between the employer and the employer is not shared. One given. That's what we're talking about right now. Do you know that if a contributory account comes into a freelance professional, wrong, bigger, there is no correction procedure and there is only objection? And when you object, to be accepted and discussed - you may be justified - you must have paid the obligation, paid. What's that? Orthodox administration? Do you know that a number of insured persons - let's say a dentist who provides a work dependant - are asking to know what their obligation is? That's enough February 28th and the system's dropping. They resort to their funds and tell them that the FBI hasn't informed them. ECA services are asking to send their request by post, so that they can be informed. And the 28th arrives. She'll be overtime. Is that right? Is that rational? Does this prove administrative skill, seriousness and correctness? That's exactly the opposite. And there's also a number of complaints from candidate pensioners who have made their application electronically and they don't find it. They don't find her in the system. This whole administrative naivety is also the negative administrative incident involving insurance for which you were quacking here a few months ago. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, Madam and Mr of the Government, I will say that either you will bring us an agreement that will specify the country's obligations and explain what is in front of the Greek people, or get out of here. Because it's not about what we're saying, it's not about us telling you from our experience that while you're late, the more the bill increases. The Deputy Minister for Economy has told you, and indeed with a phrase that I would find difficult to say. He said that he prefers an unfavourable agreement today rather than a better one in June, because what will have been mediated brings the economy to the cliff and country in mind for a fourth memorandum. You're gonna have to see this. Until then, Minister - and this is my last phrase - it makes no sense to tell us about the collective agreements. You're talking about doubling the number of redundancies in team redundancies. You are talking about removing the administration's mediation. You have spoken - I do not know if you are still discussing - the worst and most neoliberal has been introduced into the labour market.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u179	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u180	I shall conclude, Mr President. We won't do you a favor to tell you what it is that you ended up with or didn't end up, because you're taking the tax from 9,500 to 8,800 and you're saying, "We won because we didn't do it later." You take it from seven instead of five or six instead of four and you say 'yes'. You're kidding! As soon as the deal comes, then I'll see you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u181	Before giving the floor to Mr Lazarides, the Minister has asked for the floor. Do you want the floor now or then, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u182	Then, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u183	The Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks, Mr Lazarides, speaks for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u184	Thank you, Mr President. Before I start, I can't let go of the news business. You see, news runs and new things come out all the time. Of course, what I will tell you is something we knew before, but it is confirmed. Some new faces are constantly coming out and they confirm what we said about the wrong recipe, etc. We read the day before yesterday that Olivier Blanchar's report was revealed, which was warning from 2010 that the recipe given to Greece is wrong. This man was a leading IMF official and had drawn attention at the time to George Papandreou and Paul Thompsen that even this recipe, which they had sent to Greece, could not be corrected by the Greek economy. On the contrary, the country will be destroyed. However, they went ahead and implemented this programme with tragic results. That is why I always say that the disaster in this country has a specific signature, has a specific name: PASOK and New Democracy. These are the country's ruiners. And no one's come out to apologize. In fact, George Papandreou has found a new roof now. The day before yesterday, three specific MEPs from New Democracy, when the country makes a national effort, did not support this national effort. No one's telling anyone to stay out of opposition. To make and make a tough opposition and confrontation, but within the country and as defined by the rules of democracy. We have seen three MEPs from the New Democracy. Of course, I stress that they are MEPs of the New Democracy of Mutant Democrat Republic, not of the New Republic of radical liberalism, but of the Neo-liberal Republic, as was mutated after Karamanlis. So these three New Democracy MEPs came out to the European Parliament and stood against the country. They said it was not the country that did not close the rating, it was not the foreign lenders who did not close the rating, it was the government's fault. If that's possible! In fact, to particular foreign MEPs who were positively opposed to Greece and said that Greece had to do so, and even had an over-performance in its efforts, these three MPs stood up and said: "No, it was not over-performance and Greece was responsible for not closing the evaluation." We're talking about tragic images. They've confused party controversy with national effort. Something else now. A few months ago, I had asked my colleagues here here in New Democracy to put themselves on the Georgiou case, for which there is a reconversion. In any case, it seems - and it will prove at the end - that the figures for the period 2004-2009, of the Karamanlis period, have been altered in order for the IMF to come to Greece and for the Karamanlis period to be canceled. The day before yesterday, no one was present, despite the fact that I have asked for a colleague from New Democracy to be placed on several occasions. Nobody. A few days ago, on January 30, in particular, we presented the book "The Greek economy 2000-2015 – From EMU to the support mechanism". This book is the result of the cooperation of the "Rome Thinking" and of the Martens Centre for European Studies. Within this book the reality is that the country's destruction is due to the manipulations of the Papandreou government and the Simitis period. In fact, he says he hadn't made preventive lending to earn time when spreads - as you remember - were low. The memorials, of course, began with Andreas and were established by George Papandreou. It was pointed out by the authors that if there is any increase in public debt in the period 2004-2009, it is due to the refinancing of loans previously concluded - the Simitis period - and the repayment of the equipment programs of the Simitis period. For the period 2004-2009, the growth of some deficits is the lowest in all the other countries of the European Union. If you remember, there was a global crisis. Similarly, growth rates at that time were the highest. Even for these specific elements that come out and justify it at the time, no one from New Democracy came out of place. On the other hand, and PASOK's allegations are constantly emanating from the fact that the period 2004-2009 is to be considered for the period 2004-2009, in order to make it more unblocked. And a colleague from New Democracy doesn't come out of New Democracy to defend at that time. Before I go to the bill, Minister, I would like to refer a little to the amendment on firefighters. The amendment is correct. It settles some issues that come from the past. I would like to ask you in the last paragraph, which says: 'Since permanent fire personnel are included in the regulation of this paragraph, those who are a particular category of personnel', in which case the words 'with full duties' should be inserted. Take a look at it. That phrase, of course, is written below. I would, however, like him to go to the point that I have just mentioned. And I would like the 'and, that is to say, 'work with overtime during the night and on Sunday and working days...' etc. The other remains the same. Also, in the Report of the General Accounting Office of the State, where the first paragraph ends - in the first - it says that: "With a CSM, they may also be incorporated before the end of the five-year period". This must be corrected and the 'three years' introduced, because we have been talking about three years everywhere. Ladies and gentlemen, the aim of the bill is to solve bureaucratic problems and the constant and excessive administrative burden on products by means of time-consuming procedures from the first stage, which has resulted in delays being observed, complaints and many times confusions and concerns. The legislative effort made by the relevant Ministry, however, is in the right direction and we must recognise that it improves the legislation in force. Objectionally, the bodies expressed themselves positively for the National Log of Loaders, while the Federation of Workers, who also made requests during the consultation, saw them respond, some accepted, which proves the positive aspects of the proper consultation. All loading operations can now be carried out by shippers by level - register A' or register B' - and by category - such as port, land loaders, project machinery operators - either individually through groupings or not complying with the delays caused. In accordance with Article 3 of the draft law, the procedure for registering the EBRD is also provided for and in an electronic way, in the context of simplifying procedures. However, in accordance with the provisions, in order for someone to join registry II to have professional experience, along with training and certification, in an effort to prevent bad texts. We welcome this provision of the bill. Chapter II of the bill provides for the setting up and operation of the IDEA National Register of Private Entities of Non-profit Entities. Thus, electronic registration will henceforth be required in the Register of Private Entities Non-profit Characters of companies providing social care services. This measure will be able to provide the Government with clear evidence of the scope and capabilities of each body - how many people work, how many are the beneficiaries - will enable the Ministry to know and control and increase the effectiveness and effectiveness of implementing social welfare actions. Furthermore, another important article in this draft law is Article 11, which provides for the unemployed - registered in the OAED registers, who are employed in agricultural work for up to seventy days per year, to maintain their rights and obligations as registered unemployed and holders of an unemployment card subject to the legal announcement of this work to the OAED. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] I will end in a minute, Mr President. Employment time is not considered to be a time of unemployment and is not paid for as long as such employment lasts. This was a request from many farmers, because they had great difficulty hiring in the countryside for a short time people who were unemployed and who did not want to interrupt the unemployment card. This possibility will now be given and there will also be revenues in favour of the insurance operator. Also, they're extended until the...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u185	He withdrew this article.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u186	I wasn't informed. You know, we are a small parliamentary group and we are moving between committees.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u187	For your convenience, we call it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u188	Thank you very much, Mr President. Also, the fixed-term employment contracts of ancillary staff serving in the publication of the law in the Centre for the Education and Rehabilitation of Blinds are extended until 30-9-2017. Of course, since the CEAT is the route, the road, which passes a number of our fellow citizens in order to train and better know the world of people with visual problems. His work is important. I will not go into other chapters and provisions. As a whole, the bill actually moves in the right direction, gives solutions and the Independent Greeks support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u189	Thank you, Mr. Lazarides. Madam Minister, you have the floor, if you will, to announce the legislative improvement in order to share.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u190	It is, in fact, a legislative improvement to the amendment on the grant of the Single Social Security Agency. We simply clarify by way of legislative improvement what I said before my position, namely that the amendment ensures the legality of the costs of the ECAA, OGA and NAT grant, which is already provided for in Article 2(2) and (5) of Law No4387/2016, the insurance law. We just make it even more specific. We say: ‘According to paragraphs 2 and 5 of Article 2 of L.4387/2016’.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u191	Very good. To be filed, so he can share.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u192	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u193	The floor has been requested for two minutes by the Deputy Minister for the Interior, Mr Nikolaos Toskas. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u194	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to give some clarification, because some of the things that have been said before in this Chamber, from various fronts of the opposition, have been mentioned in the history of managing the issue of firefighters for a five-year term. Here too, we need to give some clarification to see who started this without completing it either for party exploitation or for reasons of inertia. Allow me, then, to mention a few elements: On 21-3-2011, Law 3938 was passed on the permanentisation of the four thousand officials. So what happened? Did the presidential decrees come out? It was never made clear, of course, whether or not this permanentisation was subject to the restrictions of the Law on the recruitment of the public. We're talking about 2011. We therefore have every reason to question any intentions. He then came after the coup d'état of the two parties under Mr Papademos in 2011 and the four thousand were elected in February 2012, followed by the government of Samaras, and in March 2014, no.4249 was voted for the Security Body. What did the government then do with Article 98? A provision was added for recruitment before the end of the five-year period - which was announced triumphantly to the interested parties - for the implementation of the previous law. Has this solemn commitment been implemented? Apparently not. And the trick is known. So we at the moment had to come down to correct distortions under adverse conditions. And we had to bring this amendment, this provision, after we started implementing the law in May last year, the statements by the parties concerned were made and the procedure started. But, badly lies, we were dealing with the institutional issues, because the clarifications that had to be made had not been made, as had been explained for the five-year military service and for the police, the special guards. So we started with this amendment. Let some do not understand, saying that these people will never become permanent, lose their jobs, and all that has been heard here, in this Chamber, because after three years, these people - according to this amendment - are basically permanently permanently under conditions of automation, without any other provision, without any other law and without any other action. Of course, this amendment stipulates that they may be permanently permanently shorter, because - as I said this morning - we are in the process of negotiating. Therefore, their issues - and we wish and try to do so - can be resolved much sooner. We are therefore prepared to implement this amendment which we have tabled despite the difficulties. As far as the correction proposed a moment ago by Mr Lazaridis is concerned, I fear that it differentiates the meaning of the paragraph that we have included in the amendment, because that paragraph is exactly the same as that of officials. I think that this is the best way of favouring the officials who will join this category, and that is why I prefer to stay the way they are. That's all for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u195	Thank you, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u196	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u197	Here, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u198	I don't want the floor for two minutes, as I deserve, but for half a minute. Minister, did you come here to criticize us? You have brought an amendment here to resolve a matter. Are you here to tell us what happened in the past? Take a walk from the protest. I spent twice. You'll be told by firemen. We made two suggestions. I don't know if you heard them. The first proposal is to reduce the time of the transition, because the transition means perpetuation, while the short time means that you are in the mood to make arrangements. That's what people say, that's what logic says. The second proposal is to remove the last paragraph. You cannot give the same people who have the same rights, more obligations and less rights. You need to make arrangements for a category of workers the same, equal arrangements. Take off the last paragraph to vote on it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u199	Good, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u200	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u201	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u202	Mr Loverdos, as far as one year is concerned - I have heard it before, Mr Papatheodorou - our aim is to insulate these people as soon as possible in a much shorter period of time. Therefore, we do not want to put a binding year. As regards the second point you have said, you are obviously referring to the last paragraph, it is precisely the paragraph which was in some form in the bill before and which, if we do not put it, will commit even voluntary transfers. For example, an employee of the Fire Service in Thessaloniki wants to volunteer to Samos for the alpha or beta speech. He will not be able to go unless we put this paragraph on. Of course, there are other obligations. But I have explained to the people whom I have repeatedly seen and who are either on the road or the others, that our efforts will be to fill gaps with voluntary applications. Needs are great. There are the agreements with FRAPORT and the other needs which arise particularly during the summer season. However, we will look to cover them without the employees being charged in their personal life, because it is true that the money they take is not much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u203	Thank you, Minister. We are moving with the Parliamentary Representative from the Centro Association, Mr Anastasios Megamomoustakas. Mr. Big-fashioned, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u204	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start by saying that this bill did not come as it should, as it did not come into public consultation. And this is even more strange, as it does not come in the form of urgency, not of urgency, but of the normal procedure. I believe that this House should adopt some sanctions in the Rules of Procedure when the bills are not accompanied by all the accompanying reports provided for, because we are thus violating Rule 18(3) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. So the bill we are debating today consists of two chapters, as you know. The first chapter redefined the legal framework concerning the operation of the National Log of Loaders, the way in which the loader is provided, and the conditions and procedures for registration in that register. The second chapter regulates several issues of the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, mainly the establishment of a National Register of Private Entities of a non-profit character, in which they are forced to register all legal persons of a non-profit-making nature who provide social services. That is why we believe that this bill has a positive impact, and that is why we voted in favour of it in principle. But there are also some criticisms, because there are some points that we did not like in this bill at all. Before that, however, we must say that the Union of Centres is in favour of opening up the closed professions, such as that of the loader - and indeed the opening up of new investments to the Greek economy is part of the reforms. Of course, we want healthy competition in the economy, free competition, but on equal terms, so that we can avoid the phenomena of monopolies or oligopoly, especially of multinationals and their offspring here, and leave space to Greek entrepreneurship, livestock and agricultural production, to the craft industries, those which have been left to the free professional, because they are also the backbone of our national economy. At the same time, however, first and foremost - and I stress this - it is a matter for us to safeguard labour rights, as well as the health and safety of both workers in general, but also in the case of freighters and the public. We are therefore seeking a competitive and open economy, but with secure jobs, which are guaranteed by continuing training, which we must not forget, of workers. The law therefore responds to an existing problem, to the regulation of the standard and substantive conditions for the occupation of the freighter and the rules of supervision. Following the committees, all parties agreed that the previous status of n.4193/2012 was not working and that responsibilities were shared by previous governments, as n.4193/2012 was nothing more than the 2013-2016 medium-term budgetary strategy framework, the aim of which was to open up the professions. However, since this law was not a Greek property law, it was a law imposed upon us by the lenders, we saw that it was not in practice possible to implement it. Unfortunately, what the previous governments have done continues to do is to do so too. In other words, you get the orders of the lenders, you translate, copy paste, and you then bring it to us in plenary. And not to vote for it, the parliamentary majority that the enhanced analogy gives you makes you legislate with this place. The only given thing is that the process of opening this profession, which started in March 2011 by voting n. 3919, he demanded two additional laws and one circular and fewer than fifteen entered the profession. We hope that the new law will have better luck. Another problem - and most importantly, I think - which we are seeing in the first part of the bill are the authorizing provisions. In Article 4, you have four authorized provisions with equal number of CSRs. You know very well that this is not what we want, nor is it proper legalisation. He only declares clandestineness. You know, too, that details make a difference. The details are all hidden. We would therefore expect there to be an annex to the bill where the plans of the CSM would be available, so that we are fully aware of what we are voting on, what the institutional framework of this law is. Unfortunately, you did not do it while you asked for it when you were opposition. In the first part of the draft law, we are also concerned - like colleagues in the JRC - with the exception of PPA and PLF and, in general, the exceptions from the scope of the law to be adopted. We believe that the principle of equality must be applied to all landings in terms of terms and conditions. The last thing we want - I hope you too - is to create in the ports of Piraeus and Thessaloniki areas of reduced labour rights and third-world working conditions. I don't understand why you're making this exception. Of course, we do not want the images of last summer where the port workers did not have any staff. Tourism is our heavy industry. We have seen that most of the country's productive tissues have collapsed. We must therefore rely on tourism and support it. Now, as far as the second part of the bill is concerned, it is positive to establish the National Register of Private Social Care Entities. It should have been a long time ago, as we see that some organisations have been uncontrollable. But it's not too late, it's never been. Because today we have to deal with the big problem, the great refugee and migration crisis. As you know, the centralist Union's position, which we have also made known to the Council of Political Heads, but also earlier to the President of the Republic, before all parties, is the establishment of registers for the control and certification of NGOs and other humanitarian organisations. The aim, therefore, is the necessary public control for all NGOs so that they do not act properly and do not know who is funding them, where their hollows are kept and exactly what they want to achieve. To God, of course, I do not want to undermine the serious NGOs that exist, which are where the state is absent to help. The Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Kotzias, also denounced such phenomena. A few days ago he announced that he has sent the prosecutor forty-three cases of NGO mismanagement. In the Committee on Institutions and Transparency we heard that between 1997 and 2011 there were finances from ministries to non-existent NGOs, which amounted to EUR 100 million. In fact, this is not the final amount, as all the ministries did not send their funding to the NGOs. Another issue that concerns us in this second part is the fact that there is another CSM in paragraph 10 of Article 7. We said that all this should be included in an annex with their plans. We believe that it is not just the recording of NGOs. The interconnectivity of this registry with all the public sector databases must be ensured, and there should also be a system of certification and evaluation of NGOs. However, we consider the Minister's clarification positive that there will be no multiple and overlapping registers and therefore no additional bureaucracy. We in the Central Association are also in favour of transparency, and we believe that the data from the National Register of Private Social Security Entities should first be publicly accessible to everyone, without, of course, circumventing personal confidentiality. To do something similar to what's happening in "GENERAL". Because, unfortunately, SYRIZA has proved, as far as it governs, that it governs through NGOs and does not operate alone, we in the Central Association believe that NGOs should be in addition. We have seen the consequences of the absence of the state in the management of the refugee and migration where NGOs were called upon to fill all this gap created by the uncontrolled situations, which unfortunately have exposed the country internationally. Finally, for this bill - and then I will go to the amendments - I would like to make a reference to Article 8, which regulates issues of the CEC. We know very well that this is a very sensitive issue and since there are constant, constant needs, we believe it is illegal and, above all, immoral to cover them with chain-based fixed-term work contracts. We believe that this should always be done indefinitely, but with evaluation. This is the consistent position of the Centroon Union. We do not want to circumvent the labour rights of any worker. We shall now proceed to the amendments which, once again, do not say a few words. I'm starting with the one about firefighters. We are positive about resolving the issue, we are certainly simply asking for an impregnable means of assessment, whether that is PPP or something else that you can find. We say yes to school meals. However, it is impossible to come and regulate everything by direct assignments. We know, you said, I heard you that it was only in the first time, but it is not a problem that was presented today, it should have been anticipated beforehand. And we are going to go to the amendment concerning the EGF, the OGF and the NAT, which we shall be voting for, but I will advise you to refer to the nine points where we say what is to be done, so that all these social security institutions - and in this case one, as you did - can do with the pensions of the rich, with double and triple pensions, with the Members' pensions. We would like you to see them a little, because that is really what society and the economy are asking for. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Then - for a short time, Mr President - I shall refer to the amendment tabled by Mr Stathakis for PPC. We are positive to it because some spending on the Greek State is being saved. In the legislative amendment, which you brought to the Ministry of National Defence, which concerns unaccompanied children, we will say no, because we do not want to issue a white check to the Ministry. And that problem you knew a lot ago. Do you want to bring it pilotically - but do you not specify this - until you see it and work it out? But that's not right. This problem has become evident since the first moment, and your Minister, Mr Muzalas, has said so. It should therefore be another way of dealing with this issue and not with a parliamentary amendment, which we do not know what is behind it. To conclude, I would like to make a clarification to the PASOK colleagues who have accused the President of doing a 'columb' and of being against the employees of the CEDEFOP. What we have said, and it is clear I think, is that we are supporting all the workers who have worked and who are right to their duties, we do not want to blame them, but we cannot cover the lame, because there are still in the public sector, in some bodies who are not working and who are not entitled to it, have some privileges. After a debate with the President, the Minister has made a commitment to bringing in an amendment to which the matter will be studied, and that is why we cannot support it. These to be clarified, so that there are no misunderstandings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u205	Thank you, Mr. Bigfoot. Parliamentary spokesman of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Nikos Karathanasopoulos has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u206	Thank you, Mr President. There is one word that you have given her mythical dimensions the term 'development'. You're all struggling for growth. And yet, based on that logic, you are going to the crimes against the working class and the rest of the people's strata. Why does your development mean? It means ensuring competitiveness and capitalist profitability. How's that gonna happen? Through the increase in the degree of exploitation of the working class. There's no other way. That's why you're fighting and that's why you're consistent. This is also the cheese in the light to take new anti-grass measures in the context of the second assessment, to escalate the attack. Because every time he closes an evaluation, it also marks the escalation of the anti-grass attack. And now the fronts are enough. It is also about tax, it is about the pension issue, and it is about further liberalisation of the labour market. Where do these things lead? They drive, on the one hand, the burdens of the capitalist crisis and of fiscal consolidation to load them on the workers and the wide folk layers, and, at the same time, to form a mechanism which will reproduce a very cheap labour force, a consumable labour force without labour and insurance rights, so that exactly it can shield competitiveness and profitability and, at the same time, there is a massive displacement from the market of hundreds of thousands of self-employed and professionals in the interests of concentration and control of the industries and the market from a handful of multinational and monopolistic groups. And in this direction, all hammers are bored in that logic. Speaking shortly before the Minister said that a number of measures taken in previous years concerning the labour market are not their own children. Of course, they're not your kids. They are the children of the governments of the New Democracy and PASOK, but you guys legalized them, you took them under your protection. In other words, you accepted the whole reactive, anti-energy arsenal implemented by the previous governments and on this you are still moving forward. What else are you doing? Is it not the result of this legitimisation, which appears in the balance between redundancies and recruitment? Who's getting fired? Workers must be dismissed primarily for an indefinite period with built-up employment and insurance rights. In their place, who is recruited? Workers are hired either by service cards, employees on the substance, or employees are recruited, who have temporary employment, part-time work at a time without working and insurance rights, with limited working and insurance rights. And you accept that. And that's what you legalize. And we will go further in the liberalisation of the labour market. Did you not legalise the so-called 'blocks' which are an unacceptable regime, especially for young workers and young scientists? In fact, you get them to the point that they are their own obligation to prove that they are not elephants, that they are employees. What are you actually doing? You leave them at the disposal of employers who can replace those who require the right to insurance and the legalisation of this informal form of slavery, which you are implementing. Is it your child not the new insurance system, which, of course, by pressing on the previous insurance laws, is today demolishing the social character of insurance? And what was the result for these young workers with service cards for self-employed people? A huge increase in their insurance contributions. That's a big raise! Violently you'll displace them from the labour market. Violently you'll throw them out and increase black employment. And you know that result very well. Aren't you a child with the insurance with which the work limits are increased and the replacement rate is reduced? It was once 70% in Greece, when the Community average is 45% and you want, very briefly, to approach this Community average, 45% of the replacement between the wages paid by the worker and the pension that he will receive, so that you increase the working limits, increase the contributions for the worker while reducing for the employer. On the other hand, you are also reducing the pension in the name of the viability of the insurance funds when on the back of the insurance funds decades the entire capitalists and the urban state have eaten the workers' reserves to get the insurance funds to go to bankruptcy. And from this point of view, it is clear that your own policy is on the way to the very past governments. So what do you tell the workers and the wide folk? "Do the sacrifices to come the clearing." What's that clearing? The growth we're waiting for. And when capitalist development comes you will tell them: "Continue to make sacrifices to maintain growth." For precisely this logic of capitalist competitiveness is a barrel without bottom. And you know very well that it's a boozeless barrel. So you call on the working class and the wide folk layers to make time-consuming sacrifices to the altar of capitalist competitiveness, to the armouring, in essence, of capitalist profitability. And we consistently say that you serve this purpose which serves the interests of monopolies, which serves the interests of the bourgeoisie. One of the main strategic designs of our country's urban order is the transformation of Greece into a hub of energy and transit. Do you facilitate this trend? Sure. It started by the previous governments, and today you are moving on and one step further. What are you doing with the shippers' log? Exclude the large ports, where the main transit centres will become either privatised now, such as the port of Piraeus, or are privatised, such as the port of Thessaloniki. What direction? In the direction, of course, to facilitate privatization and to facilitate fundamentally the large multinational groups in whose hands they have gone, to shield their profitability. Do you not know what status and working conditions prevail there, such as the port of Piraeus? Don't you know of the massive contractors that exist? And what do you think? That the employer will ensure the control, supervision and safety of workers? But is this thing ever possible? Is that ever possible? And through this process, do you not speed up the situation of a number of workers today in the ports working under the regime of heavy and unhealthy professions, tomorrow, to exclude them from this regime? That's what you're serving. In this direction, all hammers are bored. And there's an amendment from Mr. Stathakis saying what? To reduce public spending on energy - what are we doing? - we include PPC and other providers in the possibility of subtracting from public bodies. This will reduce public spending, it's supposed to be. But who are you mocking that this is a huge gift to companies active in the electricity industry and trading in electricity? Is it not the result of the liberalisation of the electricity market? The state monopoly was abolished, various people, such as ENERGA and POWER, the well-known scandals that others have experienced today, and have doubled the price of electricity only to shield their profitability, with measures that you are taking in this direction. What are you talking about today? Private providers can have the same treatment as PPC has in the public sector, i.e. discounted earlier. So to give them a gift, to prepay them on the substance of the consumption of electricity. And do you regard this as a success when giving such gifts to private groups active in the electricity sector? These are your things and in these steps you are moving forward. At least on a number of issues you cannot have as a benchmark what the previous governments have done and on the basis of this comparison measure you too are. And I'm talking, for example, about five-year-old firemen. Because the previous governments had them in a hostage and in an election clientele, are you today maintaining this hostage status? For three more years you have been expanding it for those who have all the preconditions to simulate. You say that they will remain in this regime, and if and on condition that the lenders accept it, that is, your institutional interlocutors, and if the budgetary figures allow it, we shall proceed. You are therefore maintaining the hostage, this unacceptable regime, while there was a very simple way of abolishing paragraph 1 of Article 15 of that law, which abolished four thousand permanent staff seats in the Fire Service and covered by them directly, without any other condition, provided that they have all the criteria. The JRC's amendment also says something else: for the rest, which does not meet these five-year criteria, but for those who are employed in the Fire Service in these multiple forms of employment, seasonal workers, which could have been absorbed either by the Firefighting or by other bodies of the Ministry of the Interior relating to civil protection, to forest protection, to environmental protection. But not only are you doing this, but you are maintaining these conditions with multiple forms of employment and in the very narrow public sector, just to have a job hostage, to reduce the value of the labour force and to multiply this state of insecurity among the workers. So your amendment not only maintains the hostage to those who have all the prerequisites, but also the insecurity for all other workers. I shall conclude, Mr President, by speaking of another amendment on school meals. We have tabled a specific amendment, which you have certainly rejected. We said that all children of primary and secondary education should be given meals. You rejected this amendment from the JRC and you come and say what? You say that the pilot project for a first time will be about ten thousand primary schoolchildren only and will be extended to seventy thousand, when the official data themselves say that seven hundred thousand children are at risk of malnutrition, because they are not actually fed. Isn't that what official evidence says? So we're talking about a 10%. What about the rest of the kids? With the high school kids, what about the high school kids? And they live in such conditions. In this respect, of course, it is a measure. However, it is a drop in the ocean, based on the needs that exist, because the criterion cannot be to manage the most extreme poverty phenomena and even to the detriment of the less poor - because that is your criterion - and, on the other hand, to expand even further the gap between the real needs of the people's family and their satisfaction and to the extent that it is a luxury for all children to be fed, to be regarded as a luxury for all people's households to have access to heating, electricity and to a number of other needs, such as medicine, health, education, culture and sport. Can they be considered luxury in the first century? With this logic, cultivate submissiveness in the world and to suit certain physics falling from the table and not having extended requirements. We say that the working class and the wide folk layers should not be subjected to this fatalistic concept of continuing poverty and impoverishment in the bile for the wide folk layers, for the benefit of a handful of plutocrats, that we must react and react in an organised way, building up a wide social alliance that will counteract these barbaric, class and anti-virtual measures, and at the same time shape the conditions for more fundamental ruptures and overthrows. This is the hopeful prospect for the people and the working class, for the new generation. And from this point of view, it is a huge slander that the Parliamentary spokesman for the Potamian, comparing the farmers' struggles with the tramps made by a handful of provokers at the expense of a professor yesterday afternoon.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u207	Thank you, Mr. Karathanasopoulos. There is one of the speakers on the agenda left. I shall therefore give the floor to Mrs Fotini Arabatzis, Member of the New Democracy, and we shall continue with the parliamentary representatives afterwards. But before I give the floor to Mrs Arabatzis, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, thirty-seven students and students, as well as three educational sessions from the Khamon Vurlos High School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Let us tell you that you are attending a bill meeting of the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity. Mrs Arabatzi, Member of the New Democracy, will now speak, then the Parliamentary Representatives will speak and then vote so that the bill becomes a law of the state. Here, Mrs. Arabaji, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u208	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am taking the floor to refer to the famous amendment - imprisonment of the government, of course, concerning firemen for five years. Undersecretary, Mr. Toskas, came, dropped a late amendment and, of course, left. This is an amendment - mockery, because while these people - and this is clear - have been recruited with the explicit provision of nr.3938/2011 for their integration into permanent fire-fighting staff by 10 February 2017, you, ladies and gentlemen of the government, after throwing them a ball from one ministry to another, finally today you are introducing not the permanentisation, which is certainly entitled by law, but the three-year extension, i.e. by 2020, to resolve the issue of simulations. You have the courage to say in the explanatory statement that a reasonable expectation has been created of some of these fire extinguishers who have the qualifications that they will be introduced into permanent fire personnel by the end of the five-year period. No legitimate expectation, ladies and gentlemen of the government! There is a clear and concrete legislative commitment, therefore a clear and concrete right for these beneficiaries, a right and a specific legal commitment, which your Government had to implement and implement by 10 February and not to have these people pending. And instead of doing what the law lays down in the two years of your governance, you turn - let me say - through the engagement, proposing an extension - and we see - by 2020. Why, ladies and gentlemen of the government, does this need to be done? Do you want to tell us that you need three years whole to issue just two presidential decrees, 'Chairman Decree 1', which abolishes these positions for the five-year and 'Chairman Decree 2', which recommends the same precise organic positions in order to simulate these firefighters? Do you want to tell us you need - I repeat - three years to issue these two presidential decrees? No, of course, ladies and gentlemen of the government. The truth is that you invented this trick in trying to throw ashes in the eyes of those firefighters, for whom, of course, the Minister responsible, Mr. Toskas, until the end of January, has assured us from the Step of the House in such questions that there is absolutely no problem and the simulation that they are entitled to do will normally be done. What's changed since then? For all of a sudden on 2 February, Mrs Gerovassili with a document braked this procedure, finding that the regular recruitment of the state for the year 2017 has been scheduled and that programme does not include the two thousand three hundred seventy-five-year-old firefighters who have been hired for a five-year employment relationship. So, stop mocking those workers, like all the Greek people, because I will say, and I will ask: - to allow me to express - 'Kavaja' these positions that will arise, which I repeat are entitled, in order to have room for you to make your rosphetological recruitments, in which of course you have been admirably engaged in the last two years of your governance? The New Democracy shall not sign this implication. The New Democracy wants to regulate this in a way that is lawful, lawful, serious, as those right-holders are entitled to law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u209	Thank you to Mrs Arabatzi, Member of the New Democracy. Mr. Kefaliannis has the floor for twelve minutes or less. We wouldn't object! I'll tell Mr. Manda and Mr. Aivatidis the same thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u210	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it seems to me well that we have entered uncharted waters as a country. The government continues to mock everyone and especially itself that it will close the evaluation immediately. Unfortunately, we see that another opportunity has been lost, as well as Monday's coming Eurogroup, and this milestone seems to be referred to the bells. The concept of national defeat, unfortunately, has reached another level. Two years now, ladies and gentlemen of the government, you are insisting on what you want to achieve and to which you are unfortunately constantly failing. You are wasting time worsening the country's position, the reality of the Greek economy and society. And of course some debacles are presented as a compromise or possibly even a success. Today I read that in the last forty-five days, precisely because of this protracted loss, the immorality and uncertainty in the Greek economy, the deposits were reduced to around EUR 2.5 billion and the'red' loans increased by EUR 500 million. That's all for the last forty-five days. And, unfortunately, the government is not closing the evaluation right now. Of course, communication games are going on. Mr Tsipras has served for 15 days in a fight with Mr Tsakalotos on who will disprove the other more. On the one hand, the Prime Minister says that he will not take any additional euro measures and on the other hand the Minister of Finance says that this is a negotiating manoeuvre and prepares measures of about 2% of gross national product. At the same time some bankrupt businessmen with their money abroad, some naive journalists and evil speculators return to the public sphere the debate on Grexit. Unfortunately, we are once again at the point where warnings occur. What uncertainty means and this delay for the Greek economy, business and workers, who are the only ones who do not take a vacation from reality, I think that we do not have to say so, all the indicators say so. In fact, recently, ELSTAT "loaded a bell" to you, which announced a 0.4% reduction of GDP. Mr. Visier also sent you a message. Unfortunately, we have reached the point that Mr Visser has more interest in the Greek economy than the government itself. I would really like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen, whether you would like to close the evaluation? Haven't you been taught so long by your mistakes, that the delayed ones, the real cost rises for the Greek people and society? And in any case, let us know what you're negotiating. Minister, I take the opportunity you are here today - I think it is also an opportunity to answer to the Greek people - to ask some key questions about your portfolio: First, do you continue to be against flexible forms of employment that, according to all official figures and ERGANI appear to have been launched in the years 2015-2016, on SYRIZA? Where it was a minority, they became a majority. I think that you cannot question that. At the moment, six out of ten workers are working in the form of flexible work. And I ask you: have you put the abolition of flexicurity at the negotiating table? Secondly, the issue of unemployment benefit, the declared position of SYRIZA, which was to expand and increase in duplicate, remains a position? Have you put it in the negotiation? Thirdly, is the attitude to the issue of collective redundancies the same or has it changed? Will you be able to present to Greek citizens today an image of what you are talking about or this right will be exclusively of SYRIZA colleagues at closed meetings? I will also stand on the reform of insurance. It is perhaps the first time that a law that has been passed and implemented since 1-12017 is at risk of being referred back to the bells, a law which has already created the paradox to protest both the workers and employers, that is to say, the weak, and at the same time also to avenge those who actually produce. A recent example, of course, after the album on the inappropriate 'blocks' provisions, the double alerts. I ask: Is the January 2017 insurance compensation notices complete, Minister? Does they include contributions in favour of an ancillary and one-off? Will hundreds of thousands of insured persons be invited to pay for the same month an additional amount of up to 11%, the consequence of his voluntary or involuntary failure by the notices? Is it or is it not confusing when no one knows what the final bill for the month's contributions is? I would like you to tell me: Does the amount shown in their notice ensure insurance in the absence of compulsory supplementary pension contributions and the one-off contribution? Another example. One of the professions most affected by the crisis is that of engineers and, in particular, of self-employed engineers. You are now, unfortunately, coming to annihilate professionally those engineers who have been able to work in the private sector. Does it or does it not lead to the doubling of the main insurance contributions to the old insured private engineers changing the institutional framework for contributions? Is it or not with the sixth circular issued by EKKA on the 415 EUR cap applicable to the contributions of employers and employees in the case of insured persons before 1993? Is 46% or not in total the contributions of this category of workers? I think that these are questions which should be answered and I think they are of interest to the whole of Greek society, and that is good, if you have a second-guess, Minister, some of them to answer them. I now come to today's draft law. We have based on the principle and the majority of the articles in this bill. Of course, I cannot help but notice the fact that this is a law which will remain in the memory of most of the amendments it contains rather than the main body of its articles. The Minister, Mrs Fotou, brought an amendment to school meals. Here, of course, I think I could use the phrase 'and want to sanctify one cannot'. On the substance, if I'm not mistaken, the parties agreed. But you once again have the opposition to think twice and three times about how you bring it. The amendment to paragraph 4 explains the need for direct awards due to the pilot nature of the programme, and indeed the Minister, speaking to the committee on pilot projects, said that this would apply until Easter. Of course, this is where a question arises: How many pilot programs for school meals will you be doing? Didn't you start last year with the Agricultural University of Athens implementing a pilot program on school meals in the schools of Perama? On 12 December 2016, the Ministry of Education issued guidelines for its implementation in both the Municipality of Trikkaion and the Municipality of Kavala; On February 9, 2017, we have a new pilot project. Didn't he sign the extension of the feeding program to school meals of seven municipalities in the western sector of Thessaloniki? So what pilot program and character, Minister, are you referring to? Pilot program means I'm starting, I'm doing a pioneering program, and then the rest of it follows. I have already mentioned five pilot projects that you have euphemistically baptized in this way in order to proceed with these procedures. In any case, if you want to extend the programme, why did you not follow the process of school meals and change it now by adopting the logic of direct awards? The Agricultural University of Athens, which has planned school meals to date, will have a role and a reason? Question No 2, by Mr Ephremidis Paragraph 5 of the amendment states that the costs for the action of the programme are covered by appropriations from either the Ministry of Labour or the national part of the Public Investment Programme of that Ministry. Again, I would like to ask why there is no provision in this amendment that costs can be covered even by Community funds? Consider that this is an omission, or is there some feasibility here, in the fact that Community funds may have to be subject to certain checks by the relevant Community institutions? Do you have enough money in the Public Investment Programme or in the Ministry of Labour's regular budget, or do you have so much absorption of Community funds that you have left behind? Thirdly, you say that you had not ensured that you had earlier the 25 million that the programme needed. I ask again: From whom did you have to secure them? From negotiating with the institutions? This is where you risked for 600 million for retired people to blow up the entire deal in the air and tell me you can't find the 25 million? Of course the most beautiful in the amendment, ladies and gentlemen of collapsing mainly - and I will read it out for the Minutes - that you are going to the channels and argue, as in this case, that for the days of SYRIZA all the social indicators have gone for the best, it is - and I quote the explanatory statement, which of course has been signed by Government ministers - that: "According to income surveys and household living conditions, carried out by the Greek Statistical Authority - ELSTAT - the risk of poverty for children aged 0-17 years is 26.6%, noting an increase of 1.1 percentage point compared to 2014." In relation to previous governance, your own governance has led to an increase in child poverty - something you confess here - by 1.1%. And many times you have, if you want, the courage and you say that all the social indicators on governance SYRIZA and Independent Greeks went for the better. It is the first public confession, and I think that is not the case at all. Unfortunately you have no convincing arguments. Good faith, Minister, I would ask you to withdraw the amendment and table it in a proper way, as provided for in the regulatory procedure, so that these shadows do not exist. And I come to the amendments very soon. As far as the amendment to firefighters is concerned, I think that it is another proof of bad management on the part of the government in terms of planning on recruitment and, of course, in our view, as other speakers have said, it is not a solution, but a mockery and a mockery of thousands of workers. I think that other colleagues - not only from New Democracy, but also from other parties - have pointed out that you have had all the time to go ahead with the presidential decrees required by No 4249/2014, so that these emblematic procedures are not needed at this time to satisfy - or to satisfy - these people. If you believe that you can bring in another way a definitive and fair solution to the issue, we are here to discuss it and, of course, to support it. With regard to the amendment on the advance payments of suppliers of electricity - for which we are also negative - no one really knows what to learn from the drafting of the amendment. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] In a minute, Mr President. For example, I wonder what he would say 'additions to late payments'. The dues, ladies and gentlemen, are not paid in advance, but are regulated. Two. Can you make advance payments to a private person on the basis of public accountancy? Here is a simple journey by the government, Minister or even the Prime Minister, and travel documents and all costs must be paid back. So do you come in advance to pay private companies and thus call on you to defend the public interest? Thirdly, what obligations have you already created to these companies? When did you get there? I think you should answer that. As regards the SYRIZA Members' amendment - of course the Minister has not yet spoken of it, but I will make a reference - I would like you to tell me something. Of course, this should be the responsible Minister of National Defence, the directly concerned, to tell us whether or not he accepts the amendment of the members of the SYRIZA. Unfortunately, however, you are once again taking advantage of an extremely sensitive issue to go through an administrative procedure that deviates from every concept of law and transparency. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] You also say that expenditure on these actions is covered by the appropriations for the Asylum Fund. Have you consulted the competent bodies of the European Union on this, or is there also a competitive procedure for this? Is the Ministry of Defence the beneficiary of the Asylum Fund or not? I would like answers to these requests and questions, because I think they should be heard in this Chamber and recorded. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u211	Thank you to the Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy Mr. Kefaliannis. Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn Mr Ioannis Aivatidis has the floor. Then Mr. Maddash will talk and we'll close. Here, Mr. Aivatidis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u212	Thank you, Mr President. I will begin with a number of issues relating in itself to the introduced draft law for the National Loader Register, as well as to the National Register of Private Social Care Entities. I believe that it should be included in the relevant provisions, in particular Article 2(4)d and Article 3(6)c, that one cannot be part of the National Log of Loaders if persecuted for any malicious act. We say this because, as the article stands, for example, someone who is being persecuted for an intentional homicide may be included in the National Register of Loaders. A second comment also concerns Article 3, in particular paragraph 4(c) concerning the registration by electronic system and the non-obligation to submit supporting documents. I believe that a special electronic form can be found so that it can be sent on request to the interested parties. As far as Chapter II is concerned, it is indeed a point of time, if necessary unconstitutional, that obligations of vital importance of the Greek State are granted to private entities. I am referring specifically to non-governmental organisations. There must be an explicit provision - on the basis of the draft introduced, there may be an addition either now or in a second year's time - for non-governmental organisations or private social care bodies, in order not to specialize it, which have a suspected anti-national activity or illegal activity, as the Minister of Foreign Affairs denounced, who even referred to the public prosecutor forty-three non-governmental organisations for illegal activity. They are, therefore, matters which the government should see very seriously. As far as the amendment on the establishment of a school meal programme is concerned, this is a milestone. Although it appears as a sudden need, this is not the case. This supposed sudden need only rests with the government's legislative work, and that is the direct delegation, namely the supposedly sudden mobilisation of the Government to take a measure. The direct assignment in any case is critical and suspicious, I'd say. We are therefore voting against the amendment to school meals with the reasoning I have just mentioned. We are also voting against the amendment on firefighters for a five-year period of obligation and we are firmly opposed to this unacceptable status of the election hostage of social groups. In the context of this practice, the Government has introduced this amendment. The Golden Dawn, because this amendment is a genuine semi-meter, a monument of entrepreneurialism in this particular social group, another sign of hermaphrodite honesty that she has shown in the past, by Alexis Metropoulou, the former Vice-President of Parliament, has tabled a specific amendment which solves - or could solve - the issue of firefighters. That is the amendment with a general number of 922 and a specific number of 80. I shall read out two passages in order to make it clear why the Golden Dawn is voting against the Ministerial Amendment as a genuine semi-critical, indeed - and it introduces this amendment in order to resolve this major problem. ‘Points of five years' obligation, at least high school graduates, after completion of the five-year service may remain permanently in the Fire Corps at their request, joining the permanent fire-fighting staff at the level of Firefighting, if they are deemed capable of being held competent by the relevant Firefighting Council. As regards the already serving firefighters of five years of obligation, they have been in place since 1 February of this year on the permanent staff of the Fire Corps, occupying new organic posts introduced by a Presidential Decree, while, of course, they are abolishing the equal number of organic posts in the special category from which they come." At this point I would like to refer to the surrounding economic atmosphere, in order to understand the Greek people in what situation the country, the Greek citizen, has come under the responsibility of the governments of the New Democracy, PASOK, SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks. The debts to taxi and the funds are really out of control. The overtaxation of recent years has increased the amount of debts due to taxation and insurance funds. It is a total of EUR 115 billion, of which EUR 95 billion relates to taxes and EUR 20 billion to insurance funds. This year's tax debt is expected to increase further, at a rate of more than EUR 1 billion per month. Before the crisis, in 2010, the rate of tax collection and fines was about 75%. Now, however, it's only 45%. New public pensions will be reduced by about 15% to 18%. The Greek State's new debt to suppliers will reach EUR 1.6 billion. These, of course, are morbid products from the so-called left, but neoliberal extreme policy of SYRIZA and ANEL. Here I will come to the description of a psychological phenomenon, called 'good cop, bad cop', the good and the bad cop. In the evaluation process, which is ongoing, we find that the bad negotiator on the part of the institutions, Symble, highlights emphaticly and insultingly - this is a given one - that the Greeks live above their capabilities. He's threatening with Grexit at first chance. On the other hand, Moskovisi, the good cop, the "good" negotiator, who came to Greece, said that the Greek economy is going better and encouraging measures have been taken. This tactic that has been adopted for decades ago by the CIA and it seems that the institutions are also taking part in the current time period, presupposes immunity of the subject of interrogation or negotiation. Indeed, our Prime Minister, Alexis Tsipras, the Greek Prime Minister is a immature negotiator. The institutions are aware of this, which is why they are pushing it with this system. Of course, at times of fragmentation, it is trying to create some countermeasures in this pressure system that it is undergoing, but, once again, in the wrong direction, because it is not in line with the Prime Minister's position to raise suspicions, even if this remark concerns Volfang Shoebble. For the memorial impoverishment of the Greek people, the governments of the New Democracy and PASOK are jointly responsible, as I said before, but also of SYRIZA - ANEL. Especially the third memorial, what Alexis Tsipras signed, is the most ethnic disaster. He fully recognised the country's public debt. He has forced the future governments to commit themselves to its repayment. Finally, through the superstition, it strengthened the public property, the wealth of Greece. Only Golden Dawn guarantees the release from these ethnic cathodestrides, the narcotics. A national regeneration is guaranteed with an ethnic-centric government of the Golden Dawn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u213	We shall proceed with the last of the parliamentary representatives, Christo Manda, a Parliamentary representative of SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u214	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the bill shows a lot of convergence, so I do not want to deal with it. After all, our rapporteur and the speakers on our side have fully analysed the issues. I would like to begin, ladies and gentlemen, by saying that I have signed a parliamentary amendment. I tell you not to accept it in order to make any corrections it takes so that things can be clear and there is not even the slightest opportunity to misunderstood. It is quite obvious that our own effort, having an experience of the field especially in the matter of unaccompanied refugees, was to go very quickly - because the needs are really urgent - to assist the Ministry of National Defence and its mechanisms that gave written samples in the first period of the crisis, making a great contribution to the creation of open hosting centres. Our aim was to move quickly to this and to restore the structures that the state has for the refugees, but also with a prospect, because we have received zero structures. That's the reality. We were as a country unprepared and no one had thought of this possibility that obviously existed. I therefore propose that the amendment should not be accepted, that we look at it better, that we also contribute with our experience, so that we can do our best very quickly and very effectively and with a view to infrastructure, because we have a building stock unbelievable as public. We've never seen it for ten years. We lived in other situations, in other times. Anyway, we should do it like this. One is that. The second is that I should like to make a reference to issues that have been particularly raised by the Members of Parliament on the subject of topical and urgent subjects of particular concern to the relevant Ministry, which is here today. I understand that some in this Chamber - and I mean, above all, the political forces that have been ruling in these decades - still have an ownership perception of the country's governance. This core cannot leave them, this situation which for the first time they are living in, because all these years since post-Culture, but also before post-Culture - I am not saying for the years of dictatorship, it is another story - these political forces were dominated in our country. That's the reality. Well, now somehow it's changed, at least for our country. Here I would like to say that we are fighting a very large battle, having a responsibility, at a very difficult time that we have taken on, having full knowledge of and the painful compromise we have made and its consequences and we are trying with nails and teeth - we are actually trying and people understand this, the great social majority understand this - to set up the country, with society upright, with the social majority standing. We are trying to isolate as much as possible these extreme voices, inside and out, who really want to degrade us and degrade hope, put us in the same dash. Oh, no. We're not entering the same dashboard. We're not getting it. We'll keep going. This will be judged in historical times. It will not be judged either in the first year or in the second year. We have many more incidents to see on this route. He won't be judged. Have - and I am addressing all sides of this House, on the left and on the JRC - an historic view of how things are done. We would also like very easily and quickly - and we have delusional ones, we do not hesitate to admit it - to become all things automatically, to simulate all people who meet the established and lasting needs of the public, to be able to put up a situation in a very short time. We'd like to. We cannot do this at the same rate as we would like to. But not above all, say that either we go in another direction or we sell out or we do the same. Uh, no. I mean, this story doesn't have any basis. I'm going to be very specific. Did we or did we not have a cash surplus of 2,25 billion in the insurance funds in 2010? In 2015 we received a yes or no cash deficit of 1.3 billion? How did this happen? Did we pick up a country destroyed, yes or no? Did we lose 25% of the country's wealth in the years of the memorandum, or did we bring the Monetary Fund and the Memorandums? Let's not make fun of it, let's say here in this Chamber: in 2010 to 2014 in IKA, the insured were reduced by about 20%. Why? Unemployment was launched from 10% to 26% -27%. The funds lost 13 billion from the PSI. Did they lose them or didn't they? Let's get to know each other. Did we have eleven successive pension reductions, or did we create them? Zero deficit clause, for which some say unrepentant. You know what that would mean? At least 30% horizontal reduction in supplementary pensions and a hundred and sixty thousand pensions stuck since 2013. Within a year, in the last year, we have brought them to half, and by the end of 2017 we will give all the pensions. Are we crazy about this? No, because we have a conscience. We know how difficult the insurance system is. We know that if we do not go back to employment, particularly in the area of employment, it will not have any real system of insurance. But in very difficult circumstances, where we were told: 'Cut down 20% of pensions horizontally', we did the best we could. We've made mistakes. We have weaknesses. We have difficulties. Didn't you say from morning till night that the FBI would never be? We have done so within very short periods of time. He's having difficulties, yes, he's having difficulties. Do not ignore, however, that 80% of the OAU's insured contributions have lower contributions, and that not in theory, from the evidence of the alerts that went or that from the four hundred thousand farmers the four hundred thousands have the lower insurance contribution or that there would not be an agricultural pension if we did not see and do not address this issue in its essence. I'm on it again. We didn't make it all perfect and we didn't do it right. We have mistakes, omissions, weaknesses. We have one direction, however, and this one cannot be ignored by anyone and we have a radically different policy than what has been done and have known the Greek people these years. We are not making any efforts. For God's sake, we have said so, but not so! Finally, ladies and gentlemen, we all know very well and everyone in this Chamber that the country is in a critical situation - we realize it - a crucial negotiation. There are not half a word here. Mr. Officers, didn't you say yes or no with your Vice President, never shut down the evaluation to go to elections? How responsible, then, was that attitude to understand? How responsible?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u215	Well, not you for responsibility!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u216	Look. Listen.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u217	And you listen.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u218	I haven't interrupted you, so listen. How responsible this attitude was to understand. Has it become more open negotiations in this country than this? What are you telling us? Or do you do not know exactly what pressures there are and what measures they require? For our delay? Are we kidding? Just to understand. Is it because we have not said yes to everything from the beginning? Do you want to return the acquis communautaire to the level of labour law? Expansion, better, more favourable regulation, reintroduction of collective bargaining? Will you say it or will you generally say 'we are in favour of the free economy, the free trade between workers and employers'? You're trying to hide, but you're not hiding, you can't hide, because you have a purely discriminatory policy in favour of a few. They were always there. And with our own effort, which I once again say that we are not celebrating nor a success story, we are saying, but how to do it the hardest, in 2015 and 2016, we have discredited the forecasts. How's it going to happen? That's a reality. Good? Less good? It's a reality, though. With difficulties? It's hard. With problems? With problems. I would like to say that we, ladies and gentlemen, are clearly pursuing a political agreement in the next Eurogroup. We are working intensively in this effort to achieve a result that is budgetaryly neutral, which will not bring new austerity, will not reproduce this cycle. You all know very well - and we are all talking about it together - that we have forces of extreme austerity, and that is why we must build as a country and as political forces, I say, a possibility and a policy of dealing with extreme demands that do not even accept numbers. Uh, how is it going to happen? This thing can't be done. Mr Tomsen left a little window and said: 'May we will rethink it'. Is it or isn't the primary surplus close to 2%? That's unprecedented. Let anyone see it in front of him and say what's going on. That's what it's about. And I think that, at both the country and Europe's level, we must - and we are also working in this direction - build a sensible front, as the Prime Minister said yesterday. You're making a reasonable move. Let us continue, as the left, both in the country and in Europe and in overthrowing political correlations, and for another architecture in Europe and a different orientation against austerity, against limiting democratic representation, and in any case, put a brake on the Nazi and fascist shapes that unfold everywhere and take strength. This struggle, this effort we are doing, and I think that in the end we will have a positive result. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u219	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, thirty-two students and students and three educational attendants from the 3rd High School of Lagada. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u220	I would like to talk about the amendments. As far as the two Parliamentary amendments to CEDEFOP are concerned, we contacted the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Health that the scope of the proposed provisions is extremely wide and that the consequences are undetermined. Therefore, at this stage they cannot be accepted. As regards the amendment to the assistance of the Ministry of National Defence in the context of the refugee crisis, following the intervention of the Member, Mr Manda, it will not be accepted in order to make the necessary corrections so that they are fully legitimate and fully compatible with Union law. However, the aim of this amendment was also supported by the Deputy Minister. Nor can the parliamentary amendment tabled for the abolition of Article 15(1) of Law 3938/2011 be accepted. So all the parliamentary amendments are not accepted. I just want to say one more word. Since there have been several references to Members who have been put back on business, insurance, negotiation, I have said from the outset that the most important functioning of the society, the legislative function, has a series of procedures designed to protect it, that is to say, to be such, a legislative function that has content with regard to each time a bill is being discussed. I tried to respect that. Sometimes I have also heard about the development of the evaluation and about the views of the Government on the work and I have given some information about the insurance. I am not going to repeat this, however, because I insist that our position of principle is that these procedures should be respected as such. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u221	Thank you, Minister. For a short time, special speakers and rapporteurs have asked for the floor. Mrs Christophilopoulou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u222	Mr President, I have now asked for a second. I won't take much time. First of all, I would like to say to the Minister that nonetheless Parliament is used to discussing the draft legislation - and this is a regular parliamentary practice - to discuss wider issues, particularly in plenary and in the committees. I would like to make a clarification to Mrs Fotou, who wondered about our legislative improvement. I am referring, obviously, to the fact that the procedure with regard to a level below - I mean an amount, a level of money - of 60,000, can be concise and, therefore, faster. But since you mentioned - and I understand it - in the Municipality of Thessaloniki, I will tell you that you could see it at municipal district level, for legislation always, so that you can go through quick procedures and finish the pilot phase as necessary. That's what I meant, why you asked me. If you don't want to accept it, it's your right. I can't get into what you decide. That is our position, that is what we propose. We have waited for a more positive attitude from you. What can we do? As far as the amendment that will eventually not be accepted is concerned, at least I, Mr President, welcome the fact that the government will not accept it. It has become a maniac here - I have heard from the Minister that she has been respecting - the recent parliamentary amendments to come without a report from the General Accounting Office of the State that involves expenditure and that they are accepted by the ministers as impunity. I, too, can table all the Members to table an amendment that is intact. It really can - as the Minister and I have said now - make it acceptable to her as ministerial now and legally bring her along the normal path. Let's bring her right and examine her. We have some objections. When she comes, we'll see her. Finally, Mr President, we have been provoked. I'm really surprised. I don't know what he meant - you know, we have Halloween now - Mr. Mandas. Did he mean he's in trouble with the PSI? Then why did his government and the budget that he voted for speak with the best commendative words about the PSI? Why did this government - and it rightly did - just say that it is the Triumph - go to the European Court of Justice and backed the PSI? They're making fun of us! They're making fun of the Greek people! They forget that EUR 2.3 billion is the extra burden on the insurance business only from the third memorandum and the negotiation that has taken place. Hardouvel's mail and ancillary and zero deficit clauses were just a play. I was not going to talk about this, Mr President. I only asked you for clarification. But we cannot be provoked. Dear Mr Manda, if you really want to have a common front for austerity - because I, too, will be on the outside tomorrow and with Mrs Gennamas, we have raised issues of austerity with other socialists many times - we will have to decide who we are going to go and who we will leave. Mr President, it is not possible for this government to go begging Mrs Merkel - we have forgotten them the Merkelists - and then come here to vote and implement the Soible measures and play us left-wing and progressive. Because we're going crazy in here! So it is not possible to hear these things in the Chamber and do not have answers, Minister. That is why I took two, three more minutes to answer the parliamentary representative politically.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u223	Thank you, Mrs Christophilopoulou. Mr. Synthrakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u224	Thank you, Mr President. We had no intention of any political references. However, since Mr Manda's position, who has called on us to understand the story, I would like to say this. History is stubborn, Mr President. At least the Communist Party of Greece cannot accept history lessons and, above all, its historic mission to defend the interests of the working class, the people, until the final purpose is to overthrow the power of capital. The story of the JRC is not written in the scratches of the bourgeois power that SYRIZA is currently serving in the best possible way. It trims the system, the Greek Industrial Association, the monopolistic groups because it brings them out, completes all the work that New Democracy and PASOK have not been able to do. Besides, the credit and congratulations you have received as government, I doubt it has been taken by someone else. You should know that history we wrote it in the battlefields, we wrote it in the Democratic Army of Greece, we wrote it in all subsequent social and political struggles. We're writing it to this day. We won't stop, we won't endure to the final goal. That's to be obvious, to be clean to all of you. The government has also shown in the bill that it wants to serve the objectives of the European Union, the OECD directives. That is why he is preparing the whole territory and this bill on the register for freighters or for the register for NGOs. They are part of a comprehensive preparation plan to enable monopolist groups to penetrate high-efficiency areas. These high-efficiency areas are indeed the area of ports, as a whole, of loading, transport and, in particular, of ports for which the Minister did not find a single word in relation to what we have tabled as the Communist Party of Greece, for the exceptions, which the bill makes in the ports of Piraeus, Thessaloniki, twelve other ports, favouring 'COSCO' and the imminent privatisation of these ports. Cuvetta, too, for the employment status there, absolutely nothing. Of course, the rest of the parties, who said absolutely nothing about the fact that there were a whole lot of amendments, were also on the same question. But anything about the truck? It turns out that it is on a common path towards these issues of European policy. [[Mr DIMITRIOS KRIMASTINOS]] Now, with regard to the amendments, Amendment 917, which relates to the grant from the state budget of the ECA, the NAT and the OGA, you are making a legislative improvement, you say. We say that it is not a legislative improvement, but it is a very substantial addition. You probably missed it, but it's not just legal. In other words, the words ‘the grant from the State budget in accordance with paragraphs 2 and 5 of Article 2’ are added in the words ‘the grant from the State budget in accordance with paragraphs 2 and 2 of Article 2’. Why? Because you want to ensure that the Katrugalo Law is fully implemented. And you know very well that this law separates the national from the payroll and says that the national will be financed by the state budget, something you did not anticipate in this amendment. So what you are actually doing comes to confirm as an insurance policy that the state budget is about the national budget so that you can avoid the trapping of the state budget to finance compensation pensions. With regard to the amendment on the permanentisation of five-year-old firefighters, I think it was extremely revealing that Mr Toska, who, not least, told us that 'we are facing the institutions, we are in a negotiation process'. So the whole question is not about the legal obstacles that he has told us, which in this way justifies this specific governmental, ministerial amendment, but about the fact that you are committed to even the partners in spaces where there are empty organic positions and they should be covered, especially in such sensitive areas, and you reject this. So we express the agony of firefighters, who were all over the world protesting. Of course, your decision not to adopt the JRC's amendment so that it can be definitively resolved - because this issue puts the JRC's amendment - the hostage of these workers, the homogenisation of the industry, permanent and stable work for all without exceptions and asterisks, which some have put in here. Otherwise you assume the same responsibilities as the previous parties.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u225	Please, Mr. Synatiakis, complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u226	In relation to the amendment on the possibility of repayment of late payment of general government debts by all electricity suppliers, we say 'no'. Our Parliamentary spokesman explained that this is, in fact, a gift for monopolistic groups and suppliers. Gifts, profits, favourable tariffs, on the other hand, energy poverty and increased invoice prices, and, of course, cutting the flow of people who are unemployed and impoverished. Finally, Mr President, there is no other amendment. The other two were not accepted in relation to the CEDEFOP and the amendment to the Ministry of National Defence. Although we had an opinion, but in any case, since they were withdrawn, I have nothing else to say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u227	Thank you, too. Mr Katsaniotis, a special speaker of the New Democracy, has the floor for three minutes. Mr Katsaniotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u228	I'm going to need less time, Mr. President. Mr President, I welcome the withdrawal of the amendment from the SYRIZA Members. Let me say it's very important, and the subject of lunch at school is very important. I do not want and should have anything to discuss beyond the strategy of how it will be done. Unfortunately, the direct assignment or direct assignments will stay over and leave a shadow on it. Speaking to the Parliamentary spokesman, I have to explain one thing that our people say 'You cannot keep chilis on the thief and give habbles to the ranger'. You have not understood that you are the fourth Memorandum of Understanding. Either you compare the numbers of the previous government and that government, or it will be from 2010 until now 27% unemployment all yours. But it can't be. Or apples with apples or pears with pears. Unfortunately for you, you compare to the previous government from 2012 to 2014. Unfortunately, this comparison is not in your favour. Fortunately, the citizen understands it. Fortunately, all polls show that the world was having a better time two years ago whether you like it or not. So whether you are and will be compared from 2010 until now or we will compare 2014 to 2016. There's nothing in between. The second thing I wanted to say and inform you is that you are government. You are judged on what you are doing, and not on what you say and you will be judged on the other proposal for power, which will be submitted to the citizen. Whether you're closing or not closing the deal is in your hands. You'll have all the responsibility if you shut it down or if you don't close it. All the measures, when you close it, you bring them in, they'll have your own seal. Finally, Minister, you said what SYRIZA did, what SYRIZA didn't do. I'll remind you of one thing he did, and that's going to stay in history. He closed the OGA. Destroy the countryside. That's what SYRIZA did.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u229	Thank you. Ms. Big Economics, rapporteur of the Centro Association, has the floor. Mrs. Big Economics, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u230	Thank you, Mr President. I will not go into the provisions. We've exhausted them. I just want to refer to the two amendments, Amendment No 918/76 on firefighters, to which we shall vote 'the present' and explain. Because firefighters remain in a plagiarism regime, while they should meet the constant needs. It is a problem that needs to be resolved in order to find a lasting solution, but there must be an assessment first, so that we can give a definitive solution. I think that an assessment should be carried out through an APA and should now take up their permanent positions. To give them an extension of three years, I think we're giving them a pill. So we are voting 'at present'. As for Amendment No 920/78 with the payment of public debts to PPC. We will support this amendment because there is provision for a discount of accounts before they are even due. But all of this will be supported under the unnegotiable condition that discounts are made to benefit the State from incentives and discounts. Do you understand me? If, therefore, the state really manages to obtain a discount on electricity costs, that would also mean saving public money, so that is also the aim of all of us. At a time when public cuts even by necessary expenditure, it is clear that we support it and seek to make such moves for the benefit of the public, so that the public can benefit from this reduction. As far as school meals are concerned, we naturally support Amendment 902/72. We cannot support it for the benefit of the children, but we want it to be extended as promised, Minister, to a greater extent. All we don't like is direct assignment. We hope you have the time to have a competition, so cover it up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u231	Thank you, too. Mr Stoyannides, rapporteur of SYRIZA, has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u232	Thank you, Mr President. I didn't mean to say a second, but by listening to things here, we have to tell the truth. So we heard this morning from a Member of Parliament and a former Minister of State of New Democracy, on the amendment to firefighters, that this could be resolved in two months' time. In other words, the two presidential decrees could in two months be signed and shut down and the firefighters can be permanently simulated. I am asking quite simply: these people who were ministers until 2015 knew the problem, since they are considered government professionals, while we are being accused of amateurism in the country's governance. Why didn't they set it up in time when they could and were capable? Let them stop making fun of the world. Of course, firemen are in a work hostage, and we are not overlooking it. Just the Minister responsible, Mr Toskas, said that this amendment can be made at the moment and perhaps more quickly than three years later, that the firefighters should be restored and made permanent. So let us stop taking advantage of these people, forget some of them who were, because New Democracy and PASOK have ruled. This problem has been perpetuating for more than a decade. That's the truth, it wasn't created today to blame SYRIZA. It's not SYRIZA's fault. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u233	Thank you. Mr. Koukoutsis has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u234	Thank you, Mr President. Guys, we were all white-haired and what are we listening to? The theory of the burnt earth. Everyone found burnt land in this country. If you cannot stand, gentlemen of SYRIZA, at the height of your election commitments, leave the crocodile tears and the bitters and that you are sorry, but you must do "bad", resign. At least, let the others rule, which are completely heated that "we will do what we are required of capital, etc." But the " chair" is in your DNA too. Besides, you live for each other, you are genes of the same womb, right and left. You are births of the same womb that gave birth to Smith, Friedman, Marx, Benaroya. Now what are you doing? You're playing the courgette. In this Chamber at times they appeared in bills which were irrelevant and I have not seen any firemen here today. Why? Are you afraid to bring them to this Chamber? Can't their trade unions at least be here to see for themselves what happens in this Chamber and you play the courgetry on their back?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u235	Those firefighters were in the morning, Mr. Kukutsi!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u236	You don't understand! Some people came through different parties. Their trade unions weren't here. It was random for the firefighters to come in. Anyway, serve everyone, minorities, whoever you want, your base, the audience that's watching you, those who had come here in their suits and his heels. But help our audience, those who are struggling to survive, the poverty, the people who run, the workers, the farmers, the micro-enterprises, because they support the nationalist movement, they will support it and with them we will get where we need it. As for the cheap - I cannot describe them - characterisations that we hear about our party, our ideology and our faith are no longer touching us at all. Let's move on. Golden Dawn now is on highways and she's not afraid of anything. Be well.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u237	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles, amendments and the entire draft law of the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity is adjourned: 'National Register of Loaders, National Register of Private Care Entities and other provisions'. Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u238	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u239	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u240	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u241	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u242	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u243	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u244	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u245	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u246	Consequently, the Law of the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity: "National Register of Loaders, National Register of Private Careers and other provisions" was accepted in the first place by a majority. We are entering the vote on articles and amendments and they will be voted on separately. Does this House accept Rule 1 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u247	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u248	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u249	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u250	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u251	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u252	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u253	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u254	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u255	Article 1 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 2 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u256	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u257	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u258	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u259	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u260	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u261	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u262	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u263	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u264	Article 2 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 3 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u265	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u266	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u267	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u268	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u269	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u270	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u271	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u272	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u273	Article 3 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 4, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u274	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u275	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u276	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u277	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u278	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u279	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u280	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u281	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u282	Article 4 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 5 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u283	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u284	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u285	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u286	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u287	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u288	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u289	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u290	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u291	Article 5 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 6 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u292	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u293	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u294	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u295	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u296	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u297	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u298	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u299	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u300	Article 6 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 7 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u301	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u302	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u303	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u304	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u305	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u306	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u307	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u308	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u309	Article 7 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Article 8 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u310	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u311	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u312	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u313	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u314	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u315	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u316	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u317	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u318	Article 8 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 9 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u319	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u320	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u321	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u322	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u323	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u324	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u325	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u326	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u327	Article 9 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 10 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u328	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u329	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u330	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u331	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u332	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u333	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u334	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u335	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u336	Article 10 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 11, original Article 12, as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u337	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u338	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u339	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u340	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u341	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u342	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u343	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u344	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u345	Article 11, first Article 12, was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 12, original Article 13, as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u346	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u347	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u348	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u349	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u350	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u351	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u352	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u353	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u354	Article 12, first Article 13, was therefore accepted as it is by a majority. Does the House accept the amendment by a general number 918 and a special number 76, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u355	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u356	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u357	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u358	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u359	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u360	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u361	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u362	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u363	Therefore, the amendment under general number 918 and a special 76 were accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House accept the amendment by a general number 919 and a special number 77, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u364	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u365	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u366	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u367	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u368	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u369	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u370	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u371	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u372	Therefore, Amendment No 919, and Amendment No 77, has been accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number 920 and a special number 78 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u373	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u374	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u375	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u376	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u377	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u378	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u379	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u380	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u381	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 920 and a special 78 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. We are entering the vote of the nominee. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u382	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u383	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u384	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u385	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u386	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u387	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u388	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u389	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u390	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. Consequently, the Law of the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity: ‘National Register of Loaders, National Register of Private Careers and other provisions’ was accepted in principle and in articles. Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u391	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u392	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u393	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u394	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u395	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u396	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u397	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u398	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u399	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the Law of the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity: ‘National Register of Loaders, National Register of Private Entities of Social Care and Other Provisions’ has been accepted by a majority, in a single debate, on the principle of Articles and of the whole, and has as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u400	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u401	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights has forwarded to Parliament under Rule 86 of the Constitution and Law 3126/2003 "Prime responsibility of the Ministers", as applicable, on 15-2-2017: 1. Criminal proceedings concerning the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport Mr Christos Spirtzis, 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Criminal proceedings concerning the former Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr Antony Besa, and 3. Criminal proceedings concerning the Deputy Minister for the Interior, Mr Nikolao Toska. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-16-S1-commons.u402	With the consent of the House at 17.39 minutes the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday, February 17, 2017, at 10 a.m., on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny: topical questions.
