ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-24-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to the Parliament's 23-11-2017 authorisation, its minutes of the GG's meetings of Thursday 23 November 2017, with regard to the adoption of the draft law as a whole: ‘Time-long training of staff of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy, strengthening transparency and integrity in matters of the competence of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy, strengthening social participation in coastal shipping, civil staff issues, supplementing provisions on port projects and other provisions’.]] Today we will begin by mentioning two anniversaries, as decided by the Conference of Presidents, which are celebrated every year on 25 November. The first is the Anniversary of November 25, 1942, which became the blowing up of the bridge of Gogopotamos, which, as you well know, was one of the most heroic acts of our National Resistance. So then, a hundred and fifty rebels from the NAM and the EDD with the collaboration of the English, who had designed this action, blew up the Gogopotamos bridge in order to sever the Rommel troops to supply from the ports of the south. Although, after a few days, El Alameen's battle took place, where Rommel's forces were crushed, and in that sense we can say that he was finally cut off any possibility of supplying the German occupation forces through the way of Africa, is still considered this symbolic symmetrical and heroic act of the Gogopotamos blowing up, as a very important date. Let us note that 25 November 1942, one year after the beginning of the German occupation. It raised the mind and morality of the Greeks very much and is seen as a day, which significantly determined the participation of the Greek people in the National Resistance. After that date, the rebel groups in the mountains and cities began to thicken in order to crush the Nazism and Fascism that he had occupied our country. I think it's a day of importance. I would like to remind you that with Law 1285/1982, the government had decided that as a day of celebration of the National Resistance, 25 November every year, which is the day of the gorgopotamos bridge. So in Greece we feel our obligation for this great supervision of the National Resistance to mention this date, because the people who do not forget are also the protagonists of history. In this sense, the Conference of Presidents decided to say a few words and to mention this day. The second anniversary - and this on 25 November - is also a day of emblematicity, which is "feasted" throughout the world, as the day against violence against women. I would like to remind you that on 25-11-1960 the then Dominican dictatorship murdered three women, even sisters, who were first tortured by dictator Troy and since then they have been considered as a day of commemoration and protest against violence in women all over the world. It was celebrated almost immediately after women's organisations and, ultimately, in 1991 the UN set it a world day to celebrate and mention these heroine women in order for society to realize that violence against women is an unacceptable behaviour that continues. Because violence against women knows no borders, does not know religions, does not know cultures. It is a fatal phenomenon, because statistics are, in fact, extremely worrying, about what is happening all over the planet against women. Violence, which is physical, sexual, personal and psychological, and is also verbal, is practiced in all these ways against women throughout the world, and therefore the UN considered that it should be a day, which should be remembered that this phenomenon should not be tolerated. Here I want to stress that there may be laws, there may be conventions that protect women, but, as always, society is behind the laws. He just excuses the shooter and at the same time incriminates the victim. That is why tolerance to phenomena of violence is a convicted behaviour, which must finally end. Today we all know that there is a humanitarian crisis. There are wars, there is refugee, there is persistent poverty and the victims who are women are multiplying. Before I close, I would like to say that this is a very happy time for our country, because we are finally ratifying the Istanbul Convention against Violence against Women, which was a contract demand for all the progressive societies, and which, while actually signed in 2011, was one of the first countries to sign it, we have not ratified it all these years. So today, there is the SYRIZA Government, which took this legislative initiative to ratify the Istanbul Convention and, in fact, not the classic ways in which international conventions are ratified, but put the convention into public consultation in order to raise awareness of the citizens, and make a public debate so that everyone can awaken against this unacceptable phenomenon of violence against women. It is already considered that in Europe, six and a half million women are falling every year - imagine in the civilised European Union - the victims of the violence by men in their work, within their family, on the road, of physical and sexual abuse. Here, then, we, as a parliament, must also take action in this international campaign which is taking place everywhere, so that the Istanbul Convention can be ratified by all states, in order to raise awareness not only of women but of society as a whole. So, at a time when it coincides with the day, we have to show it, because the Istanbul Convention is a convention for the protection of women, a convention for the punishment of offenders and a convention defining how these phenomena will be monitored in all the countries signatory to the Istanbul Convention. Here I would like to stress that women, who are victims of everyday violence, have succeeded with their collective - not large - resistances to broaden the concept of violence against women, so that sexual harassment is now considered and criminalised as well as Stalling, which is a process of continuous surveillance of the victim in his private life after the exercise of violence, so that his private life can be done. With that, therefore, I wanted to mention these two anniversaries, which are important for the whole world. Because the example of the National Resistance has awakened the whole of Europe, but violence against women is a general phenomenon, which we must all mention and fight against. Because the truth, with the Homeric importance of the word, that is, the absence of oblivion is what makes the citizens active, which makes them connected to the story that was preceded by them and all the heroic and mourning events that are celebrated in anniversaries, to be moments of memory, moments of awareness, moments of consciousness, moments of vigilance, so that we can all be alert, to fascism and Naziism, whenever they raise our heads, to denounce and fight him, but also to protest against the violence of women so that, at some point, we can say what happens on the planet, from genital mutilation to everyday verbal violence and marginalisation, we can say that they are now ending and that they are minority behaviours that are happening in various parts of the Earth. Ladies and gentlemen, the reference to the two anniversaries that are celebrated every year on 25 November was completed in accordance with the decision of the Conference of Presidents. So we're continuing the meeting. I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-24-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House the topical and urgent question report of Monday 27 November 2017 and the topical and urgent question report of Monday 20 November 2017. A. Topical Questionnaire on Monday 27 November 2017. (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by No 311/17-11-2017 of the New Democracy MP, Christou Kelles, to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on "Serious Problems in Dispersion Schools". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 303/14-11-2017 by the Vice-President of Parliament and Member of the Dodecanese Republican Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The disasters in Symi and the need to revise VAT policy and the end of the night". 3. The Question No 365/21-11-2017 by the Member of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Kashiri to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Populations in Attica. Compensation and rehabilitation measures for our affected fellow citizens." 4. The Question No 353/21-11-2017 by Congressman I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs on the circular of the implementation of the school meal programme. 5. Under number 300/14-11-2017, a topical question by Congressman I of the Association of Centrals Mr.Ioannis Saridis to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights on "Protection of real estate of up to 300,000 euros from auctions". (Rule 130(2) and (3) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. Under No 312/17-11-2017, a topical question by MP Evros of the New Democracy, Anastasios Prize to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Deserts the "Democritus" University of Thrace with the responsibility of the Minister of Education, Mr. Gavroglou." 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 330/20-11-2017 by MP Attica of the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Friday Christophilopoulos to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Reimbursement of victims of the murderous flood in West Attica". This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to information and communication technology equipment and services of the ‘Migration and home affairs’ policy area in (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 266/10-11-2017 by MP Halkidiki of the New Democracy Mr. Georgios Vagionas to the Minister of Research and Religious Education, on the subject: "Karya lack of teachers in the schools of Halkidiki". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 257/10-11-2017 by the Deputy Prime Minister of the Parliament and Deputy Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Finance, on "The financial losses from the night end". 3. The 296/14-11-2017 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of Health, on the problems of the psychiatric clinic at the University General Hospital of Heraklion (PAGNI). 4. The 258/10-11-2017 topical question by Mr Anastasios Megamomoustakas, Member of the Union of Central Banks, Mr Anastasios Megamomoustakas, Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Musics are being sought at Serres Music School. (Rule 130(2) and (3) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 265/10-11-2017 by MP Phytidos of New Democracy Mr Christos Stakouras to the Minister of Finance on "Financing actions from criminal actions against the Greek public and making available for social purposes". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Under No 259/10-11-2017, a topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Association of Centres Mr.Ioannis Saridis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "The functioning of the Hellenic Open University (E.R.P.).(')'. 3. The 248/7-11-2017 topical question by MP Xanthi of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Gregorios Stojannidis to the Minister of Finance, on "Following the licensed number of jobs in casinos". 4. The 245/6-11-2017 topical question by MP II Athens of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Helen Zarulia to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The cost of the attacks by non-state elements." 5. The 237/6-11-2017 topical question by MP II Athens of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR. Mr. Andreas Loverdus to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Application of measures in favour of the small savers who lost their money with the debt cut in 2012." 6. The Question No 215/3-11-2017 by MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: “Concerning developments regarding the sale of AUGIA “The National”. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The 191/30-10-2017 topical question by MP Heraklion of the New Democracy, Eleftherios Aegenaki to the Minister of Health, on the subject: “Explosive”, the clearing of EEAH’s dues. 8. The question by No. 101/17-10-2017 of the Greek People's Association - Golden Dawn, Ilias Panagiotarou to the Minister of Health, on the subject: 'Ragda increase in measles cases in Chora'. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question and application under number 164/21/5-10-2017 by the Member of Parliament of the Republic of New Democracy, Athanasios Davakis to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "The Unit of Studies and Construction (MOMK)" In Article 3, Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to inform the House that the Special Permanent Committee on Parliamentary Ethics presents its reports to the public prosecutor's requests for the authorisation of criminal prosecution against MPs. The President of Parliament also responded to the request from the General Secretariat of Gender Equality of the Ministry of Interior and, as the UN has decided, tomorrow to fight violence against women will lighten the House in an orange color. And last year it became the same, according to the UN decision.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-24-S1-commons.u3	We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS There are two questions that will be discussed today. On one hand, the Minister for Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, Mr Papapas, and in the second hand, the Deputy Minister for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy, Mr. Nektarios Santorinios, will respond. I am going to make a statement about what will not be discussed and what reasons. We begin with the first 309/17-11-2017 first-cycle question (A) of the Athens Parliamentary II of the New Democracy, Anna - Michelle Asmakopoulou to the Minister of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, on "Measures to prevent and combat cyber attacks". Mrs Asmakopoulou has the floor for two minutes to present the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-24-S1-commons.u4	I would like to say a few words, if I may, about your introductory position on the day against violence against women. First of all, I am pleased with the initiative you announced on illumination tomorrow in this House. I could not agree more with you on this matter. I think that despite our differences in ideological, political and party terms - we are divided into an abyss in these matters - in the fight against violence against women we can be united. So, in this direction, I wanted to ask you to intervene with the President of Parliament if there is a question tabled by women colleagues on sexual harassment by the former Venezuelan Ambassador. I repeat this because it has become timely again, because I am reading that there has been a very recent conclusion from the Citizens' Counselor, to which those women who were sexually harassed have complained, so at least it says the conclusion, and they have been made redundant. Now they have appealed to the courts. We have asked for this to be discussed in this House and I think it is well to look first at what we can do about sexual harassment and the fight against violence against women.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-24-S1-commons.u5	I'll answer you, Mrs. Asmakopoulou. Was it in the form of a timely question? I don't know.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-24-S1-commons.u6	It's a question to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-24-S1-commons.u7	Is the Prime Minister in charge of answering what happened to the Embassy?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-24-S1-commons.u8	I asked for your intervention.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-24-S1-commons.u9	We can ask for this as a general debate on this House and on the whole of our delegation, to highlight the incidents it is aware of and which are important in the fight against violence.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-24-S1-commons.u10	You should ask for it as you think. As many times as we have asked the President of Parliament, nothing has been done, so I ask for your support.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-24-S1-commons.u11	You have the floor. There'll be another and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-24-S1-commons.u12	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, I finally see you in the context of parliamentary scrutiny after two postponements. I appreciate, of course, that your programme is well-certified, but on the occasion of today's presence here, I would ask you to beg and remind you that there are several simple questions I have asked. If you're kind enough to see to it that I get answers. We are discussing the issue of cybersecurity today, which remains timely. The digital world has many advantages - we have raised this many times - but unfortunately there are also these new forms of attacks and crime. In fact, I read that this crime is being hijacked. An alarming fact that in May 2017 two fifty thousand cyber attacks were detected in a hundred fifty countries. And to understand a little the damage that can be done by cyber attacks, I was reading a calculation that there could be a loss of profits in businesses by cyber attacks that touches the 2 trillion dollars only in the year 2019. Last May, we had a major cyber-attack on a global scale in systems of organisations and hospitals, which hit a hundred and fifty countries and infected two hundred thousand users. In Greece, the Centre for Electronic Governance of the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki fell victim. In September, the hackers group “Anonymous Greece” attacked the website of electronic auctions in the Bank of Greece and threatened to leak data from the Bank of Greece and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. So I start with two brief questions to specialize them in my second speech: Minister, please tell us what measures are to prevent and combat these cases and the phenomena that your Government is taking, of course, in cooperation with the Directorate for Electronic Crime in our country and with national, European and international bodies? That's the one part. Then, October, as you know very well, was the month of awareness of cybersecurity. ENISA, the European Commission organised various actions. I noticed that the University of Piraeus also took a dynamic part in this. But in the 2017 campaign I did not see any initiative from your Ministry. So the second part of my question is, in addition to prevention, what is the awareness-raising action that the Ministry has in mind on the issue of cybersecurity? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-24-S1-commons.u13	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-24-S1-commons.u14	Madam President, I could not help but endorse the introductory remarks you made on the two extremely important aspects of today's day, both for the Day against Violence against Women and, of course, for the anniversary of the Grgopotamos' explosion. He commented and the honourable Member commented. For the anniversary of the gorgopotamos exploration, I would also like to stress that it marks a milestone of the National Resistance, a milestone of unity of the resistance forces, a milestone which, over time, marks the fact that it is the foundation of the self-consciousness of our people, the fight against oppression, against Naziism, against fascism and those who want, either eradicate the history or bring back to the center of the consciousness of the Greek people these detestable ideas and practices, will not succeed and are doomed to remain on the margins of history, as an example of politics, ideology and practice. Societies will progress democratically and Greece will be at the forefront of the democratic struggles at a pan-human level. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to welcome Mrs Asmakopoulou's question, because I consider it to be an extremely important issue. Indeed, cyber-attacks are a phenomenon that is particularly concerned and will employ much more in the coming years. And it will, because we have the development of now and device interface technologies, except for the interconnection of computers. Therefore, one can understand that safety will not only relate to the data, but also to the physical safety of individuals. Imagine when, in a few years' time, there will also be advanced technology - and we are optimistic about it - cars without a driver what a cyber-attack can really mean for the safety of citizens, which could intervene at this level. It was right to point out that the risks are multiplying. The Greek Government records the experts' forecasts and prepares the defensive lines. Of course, we must stress that cyber crime cannot be about a single country. Unfortunately, at European level, research records that more than half of European citizens appear not to be aware of the threats, seven out of ten companies have no basic knowledge of the cybercrime, while 60% of them have never calculated the possible economic losses from a cyberattack. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] If I may, one more minute, Madam President. Procedures at European level have gone ahead and the General Data Protection Regulation is approved. This Regulation will enter into force on 25-5-2018. This means practically that every website that manages personal user data, even seemingly innocent data, such as names, e-mails and others, must now be compatible with the new context. There are, of course, huge fines for non-compliance with the provisions of the regulation. The regulation applies both to the private sector and to the public. For the private sector, the Personal Data Protection Authority has central responsibility for the public sector, our Ministry cooperates with this authority. To stop here, saying that the two incidents mentioned by Mrs Asmakopoulou have been communicated by our Ministry with the national CERT, and we are recording and monitoring them. Greece - and I will come back to my dentistry - is quickly coordinating its efforts to comply with this regulation and opening up a field in which I think there needs to be vigilance both in the public and private sectors, because, as I have said before, the risks are very great, along with the possibilities that are being developed before us. Details I'll report to my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-24-S1-commons.u15	Here, Mrs Asimakopoulou, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-24-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Madam President. I assume you will give me more details of what I asked in your dentistry, Minister. We are aware of the timetable for the regulation. In fact, you are giving me the opportunity to refer to the major upgrades currently in existence in the European Union's response to cyber attacks. We have also had the Commissioner who recently visited us. In general, the European Commission, with a view to equipping Europe better, with appropriate tools, to respond to these cyber attacks, has proposed a package of measures. You referred to the regulation, but I would like to make the announcement that an agency will be set up in the European Union specifically for this, based on the European Union Agency for Network and Information Security, the well-known ENISA, who is lucky and honoured to be based in our country. There is a project that is being discussed this week - I imagine you know it - for the establishment of research centres, particularly for encryption technologies, which will also work closely with ENISA. Generally speaking, all this talk is being held at the summit level to support and find cross-border solutions - because you quite rightly said that it is not a national issue, it is a global issue from its nature - so that we can catch the hackers, whether they are within the European Union or not. All these initiatives are being taken. On the occasion of the question, I have been informed that in the United Kingdom they are very active, they have been very active in creating even a special professional body, which will do exactly that. Norway is also very active in this. Ukraine has a legislative framework that is very specific, which gives responsibility to various actors. Generally there, if you will, focus on your answer, Minister: what exactly are we doing, namely, as a country and for this and for the public? Each public body must protect its information. Is that why public officials are being trained, so that they can face these challenges, say, which would be very important? Is there any strategic planning on the part of the Ministry to shield the public sector in general from cyber attacks? I close by saying that, if you wish, Minister, I think it is important to make a reference to how we support ENISA, so that we can ensure that we get something more now that Europe is focusing on this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-24-S1-commons.u17	Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-24-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Madam President. As far as the public sector and the Ministry are concerned, the Ministry, as provided for by its organisation, cooperates with the relevant ministries and the independent regulators for the immediate transposition of the relevant regulation, which you have also mentioned. There will be coordination of bodies, in particular those holding large volumes of data, such as HICP, the General Secretariat of Information Systems, the EEAS, the ESI Funds, which hold a large volume of personal data in order to be aligned with the relevant Regulation. In the context of our responsibilities, we are also involved in the Working Party on the harmonisation of national legislation with the NIS, which concerns the security of networks and information systems, but also in the cooperation group, where, of course, best practices are exchanged between the Member States, in order to ensure the protection of networks and information systems. In the context of security coordination, all public sector bodies are invited to appoint a security officer for information and networks, which operates as a link to our Ministry. The Ministry will also implement a system of organising a horizontal system of system security, with competences by sectors, and its members will be trained with specialised seminars on information and networks security. We work with internal and external research institutions to jointly plan information and awareness-raising actions, and to participate in actions at European and international level, with a view to coordinating and aligning in the management of security incidents. It is extremely important that the European Commission is proposing a series of new tools and among them the upgrading of the European Organisation for Government Security and, indeed, given that this upgrade is about an agency located in our country. The ENISA, i.e. the European Organisation for Government Security, is strengthened by service, as it will support the coordinated response of the Member States of the European Union to large-scale cyber attacks and crises. We, of course, not only support this initiative, but we support it in a variety of ways. Now, on October 4, 2017, during a conference in The Hague organised by the European Network and Information Security Agency, ENISA, presented the Greek National Strategic Security Strategy Plan, which received general recognition of the country's readiness in matters of cybersecurity. This plan describes priorities, such as prevention, evaluation, analysis and prevention of threats to the safety of systems and infrastructures, strengthening the capacity of public and private sector bodies to deal with cybersecurity incidents, creating an effective framework for coordination and cooperation, setting out individual competences and roles of stakeholders. In addition, it has been set up in the Ministry of Digital Political Work with the participation of public bodies to integrate the European Directive on measures for the high common level of safety, the NIS Directive. Among other provisions, the incorporation of the directive is intended to bring about new structures within the Ministry, which will work in coordination with the National Electronic Attacks Authority to deal with such cases. I would like to say that your question brought a very important issue to the level of parliamentary control, and I would like, on the occasion of this reply and the placement, to commit to broadening the dialogue, making use of best practices, which have in other European countries recurring, and we will show that we can really take the lead in this area and prove that we are rightfully worthy of being the hosts of the European Organisation for Government Security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-24-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Vassilias Kikilias, Member of the New Democracy in First Athens, seeks permission from his absence abroad, in the United States of America, from 24 November to 3 December 2017. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-24-S1-commons.u20	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Also, Mr. Yiannis Antoniadis, Member of the New Democracy of the Prefecture of Florina, calls for a one-day leave for his absence on Monday, November 27, 2017, where he will need to be absent abroad for personal and family reasons. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-24-S1-commons.u21	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Finally, Mr Ilhan Ahmet, Member of the Democratic Incorporation of the Rhodope Prefecture, seeks permission from his short-day absence abroad, in Turkey, from Friday 24-11-2017 to Sunday 26-11-2017 for personal reasons. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-24-S1-commons.u22	The House therefore approved the requested permission. The first one under number 310/17-11-2017, a second-cycle question (A) by the Member of Parliament, Achaias, New Democracy, Andreas Katsaniotis, to the Minister for Migration Policy, on the subject: "Alimani Patras - "The New Entrepreneur", will not be discussed because it is the responsibility of the Ministry of Interior. Also, the second question under number 306/16-11-2017 by MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odyssea Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: "Approval of a second phase of expansion of a telecommunications distribution network Megalopolis Arcadia" will not be discussed due to the misappropriated obligations of Mr. Haritsis. Also, the first question under number 263/10-11-2017 will not be discussed in the first cycle (B) by MP Halkidiki of New Democracy Mr. Georgios Vagionas to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: ‘The threat of a bandage for thousands of bakerys’. For the co-responsibility of the Minister of Economy and Development, Mr. Papadimitriou, who will be at a regional conference in Crete, will not answer the second with number 299/14-11-2017 a topical question for the second cycle (A) by the Independent MEP, Mr. Georgiou - Dimitrios Karras, towards the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: "The need to extend the validity of the law on the overlapsed natural persons, which limits the original debt and in favour of the obligors and guarantors". Due to the obstruction of the Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Georgios Statakis, due to the preparatory meetings with the institutions, the second will not be discussed under number 260/10-11-2017 of the first cycle (B) by MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Financing by Pournadias S.A." of the project to improve the road Pournaria - Mr. Also, the same Minister will not respond to the second with number 253/7-11-2017 a topical second (B) question from the Independent MEP Evia Mr Nikolaos Michou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: “PPC cuts off the current in the Karystia Evia area.” Finally, due to the impediment of the Deputy Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Socrates Famelou, who will be outside of Athens as a central speaker in government events, will not discuss the first with number 264/10-11-2017 a second question (B) by MP Kilkis of the New Democracy Mr. Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgiotas to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: “No individual needs for firewood in violation of the law”. For the same reasons, the Secretary-General and the Government's Secretary-General shall inform us of the non-summary of questions. We are now entering the third debate under number 242-16-11-2017 a topical question by MP Evros of the New Democracy. Anastasios Prussaki to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the subject: “The new maritime Egnatia”, engraves development and progress for Evros, Samothraki and Thrace. The question will be answered by the State Secretary, Mr Santorinios. Mr. Treasury, here, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-24-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Madam President. The issue of the maritime link between Evros and the islands of the north-eastern Aegean has been raised by the Secretary of State for two years since parliamentary control. This issue was discussed last year in Alexandroupolis at a large conference, involving actors from the region of Eastern Macedonia and Thrace and representatives from the region of the Northeastern Aegean and representatives from all the institutions as well as the vital bodies involved in the ferry connection. Also, on October 20th of this year, the inter-election board of the Municipality of Alexandroupolis and the Municipality of Samothrace took place in Samothraki on the same subject. Through these processes, a co-ordinate came out, that is, every day a ferry from Alexandroupolis, then from Samothraki, Lemnos, to Mytilini and the next day to spin. Why do we want this route? We want it to be interconnected as Thrace with our markets, with those of the northeastern Aegean. We have our vital space on our feet and we don't take advantage of it. It has the northeastern Aegean earthly vital space above its head and does not exploit it. Today we raise this issue and update it and claim it. In fact, Madam President, today, he said orally that it would be very nice to have Mr Athanasios here, who represents the region of the Northeastern Aegean and especially the region of Lesvos. Unfortunately, however, he was obliged to be in Mytilini today by the service and the parliamentary obligations. However, we continue, Minister, to claim this route. And not just for tourist reasons, not just to transfer tourists, as you are already planning for summer months. We want to promote our products. We want to accept their products. We need synergies. And if we can and will cling to the north-eastern Aegean, Madam President, then we will also take with us the painful islands of Imbros and Tenedo, because they too will have to work with us in a geographically united area and not just. Because we can then achieve with the neighbouring country the establishment of an island entry and exit point so that this dream reality can be made. That is why, Mr Secretary-General, I wish you, too, with the good Minister, to tell us whether this ferry connection will proceed only in the summer. We claim to be there all year, winter, autumn, spring, summer. Is this political intention in your plans? I'm also going to tell you this. Let's give you a boat, give you a present, and tomorrow you'll be a Greek shipowner. Will you only make it available for two days a week and for three months a year to make the route Alexandroupolis - Samothrace - Lemnos - Mytilini? The other five days, what would you do with it? Also, if it's just summer, the other three seasons, what would you do? And keep in mind that you are not in the central Aegean, where you can have alternatives. You're in the Thracian Sea. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-24-S1-commons.u24	Mr. Santorinier, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-24-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Madam President. I guess, Mr. Prussakis, you were claiming that line. Once we announced that we will take this line for the summer - because as you know, it is already in the competition run by the Lesvos - Lesvos - Lemnos - Samothraki - Alexandrupoli and return once a week for the summer, as you said - you claim more and I would say it is legitimate. You said, then, that a development conference was held last year and the interstate council this year. In fact, I asked the institutions to certify this necessity. You know, I imagine, that I had asked personally to help get the auction on this line out. A line - since yesterday we had the debate on the Naval Ministry's bill, and you accused us that with Article 76 we are stacking the coastline, which you want privately - in order to be effective and profitable, it should also have a move. This move must either be obvious and therefore no funding is needed, because, as you know, there is no need for a permit of feasibility in the old sense to come out of a line, if a shipowner wants to make this line in the all-round period, so that he has a commercial movement and therefore a profit, or the state can see to it that this line is there by means of the procedure that we have already done, that this line is being announced. So what is the matter today? Today it is a question of seeing whether this line can actually work and have substantial results. Because I imagine that neither you nor I will give some money for a line, which will in the end prove to have no real effect. From there on, if this summer's line shows us that it really has traffic and can further help the development not only of Evros but also of the Lesvos Prefecture, you can be sure that in the next route, we will try to make it more regular and all year round. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Madam President. But that remains to be proved. We are therefore waiting for the reality of confirming what you have said - and we very much want to confirm what you have said - because the link between Evros and Lesvos, with the northern Aegean, will be a real, substantial, developmental momentum for both the tourist and the trade movement. But that remains to be proved, and once it is proved, we are here. You saw that we were making a change, we saw a line that did not work. It came out, and there's a line that we think will work better. Be sure that our government is not suffocating money, it is not wasted when it is to develop areas such as Samothraki and especially after the floods it had.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-24-S1-commons.u26	Mr. Prussakis, before I give you the floor, I would like to make two announcements, because they are our children here and they are watching. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have visited the House building and participated in the educational programme "Workery Democracy", nineteen students and students from the 7th Elementary School of Agia Varvaras. Guys, we welcome you to the House! [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] In addition, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the courtroom "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how the House is organised and operated, thirty-three students and apprentices and two educational attendants from the 2nd Agaleo Municipal School. We welcome you guys! [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Today is a day of parliamentary scrutiny, during which Members ask the ministers on various issues of their competence, and this dialogue is taking place. The Member asks, the Minister answers, and there's a dentist. That is why there are not many Members here today, since we do not meet in plenary and every Friday in the provinces' parliamentarians are used to going to the towns from which they come and to the prefectures to which they have been elected. Thank you for visiting the House. Mr. Treasury, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-24-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Undersecretary, your design is incomplete. From the outset you have made this line unsustainable. There will be no boater to show his interest. I told you kindly. We're giving you a ship. Will you only make it available for two days a week and one season a year? You won't make it available. There won't be any. What do we want? We want this line to be supported by the Greek state. He owes it to soldiers, to the Mytilians and to the Lemons and, indeed, to them, to them for two years. We're not asking any more. Why are we asking for it for two years? For synergies will be created, firstly, between the two regions, secondly, between the neighbouring states and become what we see, a bridge. It will be a new "sea Egnatia", which will be buttoned with the new Egnatia road in Alexandroupolis, which, as you know, reaches Igoumenitsa. We're visionaries for our country. We kindly accept what you say to us. We are not people who claim and go down the streets. We have respect for the state as expressed. We are saying our pains between us and today, we are now calling it parliamentary. We want not only to promote tourism in the summer months, but we want to promote the economy and trade. Because these products, the blessed ones produced by Thrace, can be promoted in the north-eastern Aegean and, vice versa, the products produced by the north-east Aegean with its islands coming to our market. This synergy can't be guaranteed by you. However, because I am a good housekeeper and a very strong one, I will deliver you a summer and winter routes plan, which has been worked out by scientists who love both regions. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Anastassios (Tsos) and Mr Anastassios (Tsos) presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You will see that we can serve with a ferrobot all the maritime needs that the islands of the northeastern Aegean, the Thracian Pelagon. And so when we get to Mytilini, we can respond to both the central Aegean and the southeast, which you are. This is the visionary 'new maritime Egnatia'. I believe that these routes also have costs. If you study them, you will see that you will find a solution to our problem. Do not say, however, that you will bless our area with a "knost" route once a week, as we have experienced it this year and on the line Alexandroupolis - Lavrio. We expect this line not to be filed. We want that line. She was resurrected. She was successful in the past. I think, Mr. Secretary, whatever we claim, we're going back to history. You know that line we're claiming, Alexandroupolis and Mytilini, it grew up in the mid-war period. He also grew up in the postwar period. We don't claim new lines. We revive the old ones, which were successful. Anyone who reads history can be efficient and can be effective. Madam President, I should like to conclude by saying that I welcome the position of the Bureau of Parliament on two major issues relating to Greeks, with their history. The first theme is that of the National Resistance, which we will truly celebrate in all the capitals of the counties, in the context of the implementation of the law and the historical debt. Historical debt with regard to the memory of these people who have been sacrificed for their homeland. Historical debt to those who jointly designed and implemented a very big event in that historic period. Gorgopotamos is the junction, where all sides met and defended the country. On the second issue, that of eliminating violence against women on a global day on 25 November, I would like to say that women have offered and offered humanity, society and our country generously fruitful fruits. We declare from any office but also from any social position that we should protect them in every way and in our words and with our wishes and prayers but above all with our works. I would like to say before all of you that from the earlier post of the Chief of Greek Police we had carried out major areas and formed through the Greek law special services to deal with this terrible phenomenon, in fact, which affects humans. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-24-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, too. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-24-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Treasury, I've explained to you before. Yesterday in the debate, it really seemed that at least your party does not agree with what you say, because when we went to bring Article 76, which would enable the municipality of Samothraki itself to make its own planning for a better shipping plan, with funding from the European Union and directly, that is, without a competition, the municipality could make a programme contract - and it will be possible from now on to do so - you have voted against it. I fully agree with you that it is possible that this line is not sustainable, that it is not viable in any form. Because if it were sustainable, I told you before, a shipowner would have brought it without financing. We want to provide funding. I'm really gonna take advantage of what you've testified. I think that since you say that scientists have been working on it - I imagine masters, transporters - we will probably see it in the next 'route' period for this to be auctioned. Wait till we see the results of the line we've already auctioned. We hope there will be interest. Then we will be able to assess them. We'll be right here. It is not going, as I said before, to let Samothrace have no transport, the best transport and the connection between the northern Aegean and Evros. But, frankly, it's unfortunate that we should discuss one day after the bill was passed. Even the Combined Transport Council did not vote, where all operators could discuss these issues and give serious opinions to the Ministry for the establishment of new lines and combining all transport lines, whether they are roads or rails. Why? Ask the rapporteur for your resignation. From there on, I would really like, Madam President, to welcome both days, which Parliament is honouring. It is very important that we honour tomorrow's day against violence against women. It shouldn't be just a day of anniversary. It is good that there is this anniversary day, but it should be a daily act of all of us, and in particular we have a post, that we ensure that there is no violence against women, that there is no violence against anyone. In particular, however, in the recorded events that exist in women, we should all be united. The day of the National Resistance is, of course, very important and it is a day of national resistance on the occasion of the anniversary of the Gogopotamos. There all the forces of national resistance managed to do the important thing: overthrow the flow of war, hit the Nazi forces at the heart of the strategy. This day should remind us that Nazism and fascism have no space in Greece, they have no space in Europe, they have no space in a civilised world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-24-S1-commons.u30	We would also like to thank you for the words you said about the two anniversaries, namely, on 25 November, which is the day of the globe of Gogopotamos, which the Greek state has decided to celebrate every year, as well as the day that the UN decided in 1991, to remember that violence against women is a hideous phenomenon that must end. The topical and urgent debate is closed. We wish everyone a good weekend and rejoice in the House, which will be lighted in an orange color tomorrow 25-11-2017, to remind us of the appalling phenomenon of violence. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-24-S1-commons.u31	With the consent of the House at noon 11.11; the sitting next Monday, November 27, 2017, at noon, 11.00, on the subject of the House's work, parliamentary scrutiny: a) Topical Questions debate and b) debate of the No 9/8-11-2017 topical question of New Democracy MPs on "Sale of missiles by the Greek Army of Xiras and air bombs by the Greek Air Force in Saudi Arabia with an international agreement".
