ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICE: According to the House’s approval of 14-3-2017, the minutes of its PI meeting, of Tuesday 14 March 2017, with regard to the resolution to the entire draft law: ‘Modification of the Technical Arrangement between the Swedish Armed Forces and the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic for the Cooperation of the Swedish Armed Forces with the Hellenic Navy in the Sector of Exchange and Training of Special Forces and other provisions’, and of the draft law: ‘Modification of the Military Cooperation Agreement between the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Armenia’.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House the topical and urgent question of Thursday 16 March 2016. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The current question by MP Laconia of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Stavros Arachovitis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the revision of the current Common Agricultural Policy (CAP) and the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP) after 2020. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 578/10-3-2017 topical question of the Member of the Republic of Attica, Mr. Mavroudi Voridis, to the Minister of the Interior, on the planned changes to the legal framework for the operation of the Local Government. 3. PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Theodoros Papatheodorou to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the significant delays in the construction of the Patras - Pyrgos road axis. 4. The 584/13-2017 topical question by MP Kilkis of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Hadjisavvas to the Minister of Finance about the "unreasonable divestment of the profitable Egnatia Road S.A.". 5. Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on the problems of contract workers in cleaning at the National Technical University. 6. The current question by MP B' Thessaloniki of the Independent Greeks George Lazarides to the Minister for the Environment and Energy with regard to supporting the employment and production of Greek industries. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 579/10-3-2017 topical question of the NYPD MEP Mr. Konstantinos Karagunis to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights concerning the decongestion of prisons and increasing crime. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The current question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister for Administrative Reconstruction, concerning violations of legislation in recruitment for social structures for the immediate treatment of poverty. 3. The 582/13-2017 topical question by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of the Interior about the existence of only four (4) speed radars on the national network of the country. 4. Under No 521/23-2-2017, a topical question by MP I Athens, New Democracy, Olga Kefaloyannis, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, about the findings of the management of the Anonymous Company of Intellectual Property (API). 5. The Question No 532/24-2-2017 by MEP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport about the fleet of urban transport. 6. The No 562-6-3-2017 topical question by MP Evros of the New Democracy, Anastasios State, to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, concerning delays in the completion of the vertical road of the Nea Egnatia Road, Adrani - Ormenio. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Question No 3011/31-1-2017 by Mr Athanasios Davakis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy concerning the problems arising from the suspension of forest maps. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy about the problems arising from the suspension of forest maps. 3. The 2522/11-1-2017 question of the Athens MP Mr Kostis Hatzidakis to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject of the "automatic pilot" of Athens. A large reduction in revenue and a widening of deficits. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Health: "Reforming the Administrative Organisation of mental health services, Centres of Expertation of rare and complex diseases and other provisions". The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 9 March 2017 to discuss the draft law in one and, if it is not sufficient for two meetings, one on principle, on articles and amendments. We'll start with SYRIZA's rapporteur, Mr. Merope Jufi.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u2	Madam President, I ask for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u3	You have the floor, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u4	Madam President, because you are also a member of the Conference of Presidents, it is a draft law of seriousness with ten amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u5	Sixteen.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u6	Sixteen Members of Parliament. I'm talking about the government's amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u7	We have ministers of the Ministry of Health itself, but others too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u8	The two of them were presented by the government in due course, brought them to the committee and they are also serious. The others we'll talk about here. At any rate, your decision on one or two meetings will be judged on the availability of colleagues, but, nonetheless, on the planning of the Conference, why this haste? Yesterday, say, we had a deal ratification, and in an hour and a half we left. Why is time not arranged differently so that we can be serious about most of the issues? I think it is unfair what is happening at the expense of the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u9	Mr. Loverdo, if there are no speakers, I don't understand why it's unfair. To be here, to spend the night for no reason?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u10	I don't want to say anything more.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u11	Okay. There is no intention either from the Conference or from the Bureau. Comfortable procedures will be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u12	It is not a comfortable process when you are calling on us, both the rapporteurs and the spokesmen and the representatives, to discuss the amendments at a procedural stage. The amendments under the Rules of Procedure have their own separate space in the functioning of the House, it opens up a list of two minutes, it is another procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u13	We'll see about that. I think you're nervous for no reason.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u14	But we do not see it that way, Madam President. We've had two years of experience.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u15	Okay. So we're starting with Mrs. Merope Jufi, SYRIZA rapporteur, for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, as the Bureau has announced, we are discussing today a bill from the Ministry of Health on mental health, rare diseases centres and a number of very important provisions on the proper functioning of the National Health System. I will say here that it was important that the committees recorded a good climate, which I think corresponds to the seriousness of the issue, but - you will allow me to say - and the maturity that exists in society in an effort to make changes and improvements that the public mental care system requires much faster. In this context, a lot of discussion, comments, changes and improvements were made by the Ministry to strengthen as much as possible the substance of the bill. It also became clear that the draft law under discussion is not an autonomous legislative initiative of the Ministry, but that it is in the context of the continuation of government planning for socially necessary and realistic health support, despite the existing serious budgetary difficulties, with a view to universal access to as high a quality as possible. These efforts, which are also part of this bill, i.e. efforts to stabilise, strengthen and improve the national health system as a whole, of course aim to heal and meet the enormous needs that have arisen in recent years, mainly because of the application of the harsh austerity policies aggressively by previous governments and the health sector. I now come to the first part on mental health. The proposed changes were the result of persistent efforts and of exhaustive consultation, recommending a deep democratic intersection in the shape of administration. The previous administrative model, by law of 1999, also aspired to provide a decentralised administrative support for the psychiatric services of a particular area of responsibility for which it would have full control, supervision and many responsibilities. However, despite the positive steps that have been taken, a number of problems have emerged which have ultimately led to the weakening, abandonment and ultimately the depreciation of this system, with main features, as has emerged from various evaluations, weak institutionalisation, lack of decisive responsibilities in regional bodies, and insufficient staff coverage. Therefore, with the provisions under discussion, there is an attempt to resolve this issue of the absence of a specific interim administrative structure of a decisive nature and, of course, the accessibility of mentally ills and their families to all services of psychosocial support through decentralised structures and services, which will operate in a transparent and democratic manner and will ensure the participation and representation of all patients involved in defending their rights. At the level of funding, which is the main criticism that is being made to us, the proposed form of administrative organisation can be implemented with a small mobilisation of resources and in accordance with the Ministry's declarations there are, while for integrated development, support, monitoring, service organisation, training of staff, and for there to be a check, evaluation and interconnection services required, 51 million euros have been guaranteed from the European programmes for the period 2014-2020. In this light, the bill is an important attempt to restart - we believe - with new, better terms, emphasising accessibility and defending the rights and dignity of receiving health services and mental patients. However, there are a number of important challenges in the direction of its implementation. Obviously, as has been said in committees, administrative reorganisation in itself does not ensure that neither the health system operates better. Beyond the institutional requirements, we also need a new culture, so that people can be cared for in close proximity to the housing and accommodation area, with the possibility of the family environment supporting them without movement and suffering, if possible covering the whole range of services, from primary prevention and primary care, which will be the next bill to follow, to the treatment of acute incidents. And, of course, this first priority is the staffing of the mental health sector in human resources, which is why, despite the existing very high needs throughout the whole system, which had been succumbed and abandoned, three hundred permanent staff recruits have already been launched and the first ninety-four psychiatric and pediatric posts have been published, prioritising the regional structures, in order to reduce the flow of incidents to the centre and, in particular, to the three special psychiatric hospitals who are overloaded. I would remind you that these three institutions had reached the limits of the operating blackout, because in the logic that they would close by 31-12-2015 they had been excluded from each vacant positioning plan for a decade. At the same time, of course, there is a need to develop and improve sections in general hospitals, ensuring sources of funding and establishing relationships of synergy with all stakeholders, but also with the European Union. Finally, it is particularly important to relaunch the dehabilization system so that we can move away from the idea of asylum towards the social care structures, while also involving the old structures. Recently they saw publicity photos and videos from tied patients in psychiatric institutions. Beyond our suffering to promote these sensitive data, we must realise that these are the intrinsic effects of asylum, which is by definition an area of unliberality, incarceration, violation of rights and dehumanisation. Incidents like this, I must say that I think they are even greater in strengthening the need to complete this reform with the contribution of all of us, focusing on services offered to the community, with structures that ensure decent care for these people. The second pillar of the bill is that of the Rare and Comprehensive Disease Expert Centres. The existing national framework for these reference centres, as they were called, was once again laid down by an old 1997 law and, of course, is characterised by shortcomings and the absence of specific measurable criteria for the recognition of these structures. Therefore, the relevant provisions aim at the full reform of our country's existing and incomplete institutional framework for the centres of expertise, which were previously called reference centres, as I have already said, on the one hand, to harmonise these public structures with European standards. In other words, creating a common framework that will start from the very important for these prevention diseases, from the initial diagnosis to the timely follow-up and, of course, with the main aim of reducing the suffering of patients and their families, while creating networks between highly qualified healthcare providers at European level, increasing the dimension of access to diagnosis and treatment, where very important steps have been taken in this direction that improves the quality of life and the survival of all these patients with these rare diseases, but which require a specific concentration of resources and scientific knowledge. This initiative is therefore an important approach capable of improving registration and evaluation procedures. During the discussion with the institutions a number of issues were raised, such as the integration of the ORPHANET base, which is the global database for these diseases, the possibility of conducting tests by diagnostic laboratories, private legal persons, under public control, the representation of all the associations of sufferers according to the subject and even the very important need for clinical transition from juvenile to adult life. These are remarks, which are basically accepted, which are particularly important and which we need to work on in the near future. Finally, I should like to say that these provisions achieve savings in national research resources, given the exchange and assimilation of international experience, as these networks can serve as focal elements and signs of medical training, the dissemination of scientific knowledge and evaluation of these rare diseases. In Part Three, the bill contains many regulatory provisions, with the main aim of dealing with outstandings arising from the incomplete and distorting legislation of the previous years and aims to resolve effectively problems affecting the National Health System. Obviously, because it is a lot of articles, I will not be able to refer to everything. Perhaps I will say in my second speech that we have important arrangements for the financing of the Centres for the Prevention and Promotion of Psychosocial Health, as well as a clearer institutional framework for the operation and financing of the National Documentation and Information Centre for Drugs. At the same time, I think it is important - and that is why I am referring to this - to the further development of the national record of neoplasms. The compulsory registration of cancer cases is introduced so that we can finally start from a disease in which we have national data, which we so much need. Also a Office for Prevention of Accidents in Inland Waters is being set up to address the important problem of drowning, particularly in childhood, with a very increased impact on our country, with the existence of trained seafarers. I shall then refer to these articles, which deal essentially with human resources. Physicians and dentists in the EMCDDA - those who remain in court - are given the opportunity to join full-time and full-time employment, interrupting the free profession in a reasonable transitional period, with the aim of helping the functioning and development of the primary health system. Of course, doctors of surgical specialties can also be further exploited in the reference hospitals by decision of the Director of the U.S. and support the overall operation of the hospitals. This, of course, will produce favourable results for the entire benefiting population. The question of education permits for all doctors in the ESS, health centers, the PES, is being regulated, and I consider it very important that we assimilate training permits to subsidiary doctors to the annually planned permits and doctors in the ESS, that is to say, we give the same opportunity to these new colleagues who support the National Health System, recognising the need for them to be adapted. The secondment of the spouses of subsidiary doctors serving in fertile, remote and problematic areas is also a priority. In the context of further support for primary health care with additional staff, provision is made for the inclusion, under specific conditions, of doctors without a general medical certificate already serving in the system for over twenty years with full and exclusive employment, recognising their offer at wage level and obviously without a specialization award, since it is a transitional and exclusive provision. Finally, in this respect, I also consider it important that the article on the compulsory transfer of the doctors of the ESS from barren areas after five years, about one year after their application, to an empty organic position in Athens and Thessaloniki - but which will be made in line with the needs of the relevant ERIC, with priority for the subordinated services and as a reward for the recognition of their social offer and as an incentive, especially for the next younger doctors, who will want to serve and offer these posts, which will be immediately announced by applying for transfer. There are other very important topics that have been discussed both inside and outside the House, such as AEMY. We are not talking here about privatization of health services, but about the use of the company, which is under public control, in the light of the public interest. That is why it clearly stipulates that it undertakes specific activities that the public must cover, such as the continuation of the operation of private health establishments where, for various reasons - judicial, management - licences are removed from the owners, and there is an urgent need to cover the benefits, as well as the sole support for people living in pre-experimental centres. Finally, I consider it important that the regulation referred to in the EEO, since it aims to prevent this very critical body from being subjected to further subsistence while attracting high-training and specialisation personnel, without burdening the state budget and through this process by strengthening its control role, which is very critical in very long conditions of immunity for large pharmaceutical companies. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to return to the original chapter of the bill and stress that the main objective of the Ministry of Health is to revitalise the vision of social psychiatry, to further develop and integrate the Community model of services for mental health and to abandon the idea of asylum and the institution in general. A key axis for the necessary psychiatric reform is the creation of an integrated system of mental health services provided to the community and the simultaneous weakening of the role of psychiatric hospitals as providers of psychiatric services. The effort we are making is to inflame people of the health system the idea that we are seeking a serious resumption in this area and that everyone will have a say and a role. I think that this is a very important incentive to join in a new effort and to revive the vision of psychiatric reform. It is therefore in the crisis of everyone, and in particular of the Officerial Response, whether it wants to be effective in supporting this sensitive sector, and I call on it to reconsider its negative vote at the outset on the part of psychiatric care, so as to end the perpetuation of the essential problems and the bureaucratic obstacles to the detriment of all patients and their families. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, too. The rapporteur of the New Republic, Mr Vassiliou Yoyakas, has the floor. The list of registered speakers will be closed at the end of its speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a bill that came to Parliament nine months after the conclusion of the public consultation, since, as the Ministry's leadership confirmed, there was a wide and exhaustive dialogue with experts and bodies on the administrative reorganisation of the mental health system. We, as the New Democracy, recognised in the committees that the intention of the legislator is correct: decentralising the current model of administration, acquiring sectoral committees with decisive powers, having a say in the decisions taken by service providers and their families, but also protecting the rights of mental patients. However, after four meetings in committee and discussions with professionals in mental health, we come to two conclusions: the first is that the new system will be difficult to achieve, because it does not treat today's weaknesses satisfactorily. The sectoral committees along with regional administrations and regional sectoral councils build a multi-faceted and multi-level management system. The main reason is that there is no human resource to serve all the anticipated posts in all the administrative bodies. I would remind you that four calls of interest have been issued in the past to staff the sectoral committees, which were ultimately limited. We do not think it is a coincidence that there is no explicit deadline for their creation. There are other reasons why the new administration system is at risk of being a 'licensed shirt': it is not possible to ensure secretarial and administrative support for sectoral trumpets. This is one of the most serious problems today. Also, in many areas of mental health there are neither family associations nor organised mental health services, so they are not actually represented in management bodies. The second conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, is that there are issues which should normally be at the heart of an administrative reform of mental health. There are lacking policies to support the work done, due to shortages of mental health professionals. A mechanism for assessing mental health structures and services is missing, which should be one of the main aims of the administration. There is no framework for organising and certifying family associations of mental patients. In general, you would say that the government is starting a, supposedly, mental health reform from the wrong point. One would expect an integrated plan to be preceded with a view to improving mental health structures and services and then - or even within it - dealing with the management system. It's like starting to build a house from the roof. Ladies and gentlemen, unlike the first chapter on mental health, we are positive about the new framework of the Rare and complex diseases expertise centres. With the proposed institutional framework, Greek legislation aligns, we would say, with the relevant European directives and standards in force in the European Union. It is clear, inter alia, which health establishments can be centres of expertise and under which procedures and criteria can be certified as such. We also believe it is right that all the centres of expertise currently operating should be reassessed in accordance with the new criteria. It is also important that these centres should be able to establish cooperation networks in our country, but also to join the respective European reference networks. Indeed, the fact that diagnostic laboratories can be identified as specialised diagnostic centres for rare and complex diseases will speed up the diagnosis of patients with rare diseases. Ladies and gentlemen, in the third chapter and in the third section of the bill, we have, according to the government's best practice, various heirly provisions, which are about 50% of the total articles. With most of them, it is attempting to deal with various issues that have actually arisen in recent years, to correct vague and legal gaps. We will be voting in favour of most of this. I shall therefore turn to some of the provisions on which we have expressed our disagreement or our commitment at committee meetings. In Article 25, doctors without specialisation, with a certificate of general medicine, which is full-time and full-time, are included in the ESS without being qualified by the general practitioner. What remains to be seen, Minister, is the integration of unskilled full-time doctors who serve in PED units in border areas for more than fifteen years, but do not have a general medical certificate. Although we told the committees that the term 'general medicine' would be completely removed in Article 25, and in the bill, as we see, the term 'general medicine' came.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u19	Legislative improvement will be submitted.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u20	We therefore expect it to be corrected, and also to provide for these ten who do not even have the certificate of general medicine. So since it is no longer a matter of specialisation as a general doctor, we believe that it is reasonable and fair to extend the acquis right to these few doctors who, as I said, are about ten. Article 26 gives a second chance to the doctors of the former IKA who have appealed to the courts to join the primary health care system as full-time doctors, after they have previously closed private medicine and resigned from bringing proceedings, appeals or legal proceedings. We insist that the regulation you are promoting is unconstitutional, first of all because the principle of equality is violated. We have cases with the same legal and factual features that are treated differently. It is about a thousand hundred doctors from the former IKA - EOPY, who are not covered by the provision, because they have not appealed to the courts and have chosen to resign from the ERC. Then there are about three hundred and fifty of the other ones of a thousand doctors, covered by temporary judicial protection, pending a final decision for them. They are those who have appealed to justice too, but they expect their case to be dealt with. So we have three-speed doctors. The other problem of constitutionality is that the principle of separation of functions is violated, as the legislature is involved in pending proceedings. You are asking, Minister, for doctors who have appealed to justice to resign, even by signing them, the right to legal protection. We cannot consent to such a solution. If you want to give a second chance of full and exclusive employment, it must be for all those who are fired, whether or not they have appealed to the court, whether or not they have temporary decisions and orders. In Article 29, we have seen that the Minister did not make any improvements which would reduce the risk of new loopholes in the barren regions, even though you did show a positive mood, since in six months, and as you said, the doctor could come to the big health regions and be placed according to the needs that exist. We fear, however, that regional hospitals will be devastated by this provision. I now go to Article 48. With this, they are given to the Anonymous Health Units Company, AEMY, expanded responsibilities. Among other things, AEMY undertakes the operation of mental health establishments under private law. It provides health care and psychosocial support to structures of migrants and refugees, trains and trains health professionals. The first point is that enlargement also extends the role of the Ministry of Health to issues which it has allocated to the private sector. Does AEMY have the know-how to do the refugee job better than international non-governmental organisations that are already active? The second point is that, as it does not fall within the public accounting system and does not have a prudential control over expenditure, it can be used either for reasons of public interest or for different types of services, i.e. as a vehicle for awarding works contracts or for leasing work for an indefinite period, by way of derogation from any procedure. You know, Minister, that the limits between flexibility and arbitraryness are thin, and we have reason to be suspicious, because this government has not given us the best samples. Just give one example of the responsibility of private mental health units from AEMY to keep their patients out of care. These units shall be staffed by annual contracts for which the appointed president of AEMY will decide and which, after their expiry, may always be renewed by the chairman concerned, by way of derogation from any other special or general provision. You are also considering the secondment of staff from the public sector to AEMY, that is to say from the structures and services that have serious staff shortages. Article 49 requires the Government to abolish the possibility of involving operators of the wider public sector and private sector associations in the share capital of the Hospital Remuneration System Company, E.S.A. The Minister has mentioned a deprivation plan without, however, giving a convincing reason, i.e. the allocation of expenditure on hospitals will be fairer when the public will have 100% of the shares instead of at least 51%, since once again the representatives of the Greek State will be able to decide by majority, because the interest in insurance funds and insurance in the formation of the remuneration system for hospitals is not sufficient reason for their participation in the corporate capital of a public limited company. You also say that private bodies will have access to hospital and care records for insured and hospitals. Since when does the equity mean compulsory access to data derived from the activity of a public limited company? All you confess is that you cannot guarantee the protection of sensitive personal data for citizens. Unfortunately, this deprivation, as you call it, is probably motivated by your momentum in governmentism and "allergies" in the private sector. Article 53 provides for the possibility of obtaining an annual performance incentive of around EUR 700,000. We understand that this is a movement of wage simulation of IFN officials who have recently been transferred with older employees. But knowing the health shortages in personnel, equipment and consumables, we wonder whether it would be preferable for this surplus to return to investment in health. With regard to Article 54 on the electronic interconnection of medical clubs, there are two issues that relate to each other. Minister, in the committees we welcome this article. We have all accepted it without any debate. On the way, however, we have received many calls from local medical clubs, who have expressed their differences in this provision, because there is a fear that, by transferring responsibilities to the Panhellenic Medical Association, in order to provide a certificate of good practice, the suffering of doctors can slowly increase as they have to come to a central service. At the same time, we must say that they are members of the country's local medical clubs and not the Pan-Hellenic Medical Association. And we realise that an additional bureaucracy can be created, that the administrative burden is increased and that the doctor's physical presence in Athens is likely to be required. It is much more operational that this act should be decentralised. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I would like two more minutes if you were kind. With regard to the last two parts of the other provisions, these are for the creation of a pan-Hellenic Association of dentists and a Pan-Hellenic Association of the therapists, we are positive. Before I close, I would like to make a few brief comments on the two ministerial amendments, which were also discussed in the committee. For the others, we reserve to be placed then. I shall begin with Amendment No 945/58, for those registered in the OAED, which was made in Article 94 of the bill. The possibility of joining specific employment programmes in the public sector and other categories of unemployed, apart from the long-term unemployed, is allowed. What are these other categories and why is it not specified? The role of the AACC in verifying the legality of recruitment of seasonal staff to municipalities, regions or other public services in carrying out OAD programmes is therefore limited, without any justification being given. We believe that the SAPA procedures should be followed, even when it comes to seasonal staff. Otherwise, you are giving us every right to accuse you of creating another party service mechanism. Amendment 949/60 on pension and insurance matters, the new Article 97, confirms once again the failure of the Katrugalos law, a law which reminds me of kneeling the majority of free professionals with arrogant contributions, with 15% of them being called upon to pay contributions five and six times greater than before. The question with regard to pension recalculation is what the government will do after 2020, 2021. Will he recalculate all pensions? This means to retired people new uncertainty for the next four years and possibly new cuts. Are we going to have pensions calculated by two different indicators, namely two speed pensions? That's what I'm closing down with. I would like to thank you for listening. Then we'll reposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u21	Madam President, will you give me the floor for a second? I will not deal with this House for a long time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u22	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u23	Because it was also said by Mr Yoyakas, and I intended to ask you for the floor for exactly what I am going to say now, I would ask the Minister for this. Since the debate on legislative improvements took place at the last meeting of the committee, i.e. the second reading of this draft law, and it has taken many days, I think that immediately, Minister, these legislative improvements will have to be tabled so that we can also be aware of any changes that have taken place. That is what I wanted to say, Madam President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u24	They are cleaned, prepared and will be submitted thereafter.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u25	The Minister agrees. It's closed, I think, and time for the recordings. The rapporteur for the Democratic Integration, Mr Gregorakos, has now spoken for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u26	Before I take the floor...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u27	Will you speak from your seat?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u28	Before I take the floor from the Stepma, I would like you to tell me whether there is a single debate today and who decided, and what number of Members would we go to a second debate or a debate? If we go to a debate again, I think the Rules of Procedure are being circumvented, Madam President. You are taking a decision at the Conference of Presidents and you are coming here and you are putting us in a divisive 'or', for which the House will have to decide. But this has become a daily life. No bill of fifty, seventy, sixty articles is discussed in one day. I would therefore like to place myself today at the outset of the bill, to have a serious debate on the bill, to say it all, and the next day, as the Conference of Presidents has decided, to go to a second debate on the articles. And why all this, Madam President? Because the President and the Conference of Presidents do not know how many amendments the Minister has tabled, with the result that every amendment brought by the ministers - and it is not only the ministers who are proposing the bill, but also some others - to be a self-evident bill. So you are bringing us here today to speak in 15 minutes on the principle of both the articles and the amendments. I think that this is not right, and the Rules of Procedure are completely circumvented. This House may want - I don't know, each of us - to end with some issues quickly, but that's not the case. The Greek Parliament is not 'fast track'. It is a debate and must in democratic terms, with democratic dialogue, the government and the opposition and all the parties that are currently taking part in the governance of the country to make the right decisions. Decisions by ending...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u29	Has the procedure been interrupted and we are now having talks on a point of order?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u30	I shall conclude, Madam President,...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u31	Mr. Gregoraco, let us see how many people have been written. Are you talking about yourself now or about MPs? Because there are two issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u32	I, Madam President,...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u33	What's he buying at?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u34	Mr. Loverdo, one. There is time for the rapporteurs and for the parliamentary representatives you are probably cut off, and there is time for the Members. So we begin first of all to see how many speakers have been written. That is the first criterion.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u35	I'm asking you, if you can hear me. Am I speaking at the beginning of the bill?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u36	We didn't say there was going to be a meeting. It has not yet decided to do so. Let go, then, and don't waste time on matters that he doesn't have...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u37	Madam President, what am I asking for?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u38	Will you take the floor I give you on the other matter?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u39	I'll take the floor. What am I going to talk to?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u40	Whatever you want. You've got 15 minutes. You've got secondarys too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u41	I, Madam President, wish to organise it. I want to speak at the outset of the bill and give me a chance...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u42	That's the basic thing. So speak at first. And your colleague spoke of both pensions and everything. He had sufficient time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u43	Which colleague of mine?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u44	Mr. Yoyakas.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u45	He refuses to come and talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u46	Don't you want to come to Stepma, Mr. Gregoraco?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u47	Madam President, I want to know how to speak to organise my speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u48	As you think.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u49	Am I speaking at the beginning of the bill or at the outset, on articles and amendments?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u50	On all of them, because that is what the title says: only debate on the principle, on the articles and on the amendments of the bill. You want to talk? Do you want to tell dentistry? Whatever you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u51	So, Madam President, did you make a decision?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u52	Give me the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u53	You have a parliamentary experience. So you've been following this for the first time?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u54	Did you make the decision to hold the debate at a meeting?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u55	That's the first time. We've never seen it before without an organised agenda...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u56	What? Talk about the amendments? What do you say, Mr. Economou? First of all, we have not decided whether it will be one meeting or two.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u57	When will you decide?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u58	We haven't decided.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u59	Make up your mind. We didn't tell you no. You have to decide.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u60	That's what we're saying. It will be judged by how many speakers are. Come on, Mr Gregoraco, for the fifteen minutes and say what you think.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u61	Give me the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u62	Please! All right! We're not going to make a matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u63	I want the floor. I'm asking him.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u64	What do you want? Do you want me to tell you how many times this has happened over our days and over your days? You don't sound, Mr. Loverdo. I didn't give you the floor. Sit down. I'll make an announcement first. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how the House operates, thirty-six students and students and three educational attendants from the 2nd Municipal School of St. Theodoros and from the 10th Municipal School of Byron. The House welcomes you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u65	Madam President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u66	Mr. Economou, wait, now you're here. One at a time!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u67	No, I was sitting back waiting, but you didn't see me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u68	Would you like to open the point of order? As you wish. Mr. Maddash has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u69	Mr. Maddash came in after me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u70	I'm making a request.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u71	Have a seat. You've spoken.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u72	But it's not possible for Mr. Maddash to speak now, who came after me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u73	Yeah. Have a seat. Then you'll talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u74	Mr. Mandash came in after me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u75	What do you say, Mr. Economou? I see, I'm president here.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u76	You see everything!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u77	Did Mr. Mandash come in after you? What do you think? To say that, it turns out you're here now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u78	Talk, Mr. Mada.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u79	Come on, Mr. Manda. Be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u80	Very briefly, I say: we cannot start a procedure and two rapporteurs have been ahead of us, and we must raise a point of order in the middle of the procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u81	After we opened it in the first place.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u82	Wait a minute! Don't talk to me. The fact that you have not received an answer satisfying you does not allow you - to interrupt a process that is in flow. Secondly, the programme provides for a second day, possibly. It's been logged into the program. I don't understand what's wrong with him. I really don't understand. I think that, on the basis of today's day and tomorrow's programme, there is plenty of time for everything. That's the point. We're dealing with issues where they don't exist. I really understand the need for everyone to be placed and exhaustively etc. There are two days in the program. How do we do it? We're just doing a thing without a thing!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u83	Mr. Economou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u84	Madam President, this is an organised procedure. The two days Mr Mandash says are not two days from what we understand from you, no matter how they are structured, because you leave it under the cult of the debate. How the conversation goes, we can have such a conversation, say, at the cafe in our neighborhood. As the conversation goes, it can pull by night, it can pull by noon.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u85	Mr. Economou, if we have five speakers, will we sit two days? What are you talking about? Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u86	This is a Parliament, Madam President, and it must have a start, an average and an end to the debate, and it must be organised. So this is where we need to know: Today, we are talking at first? Are we going to discuss the articles later?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u87	As is the agenda. It's not cut in half.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u88	Listen! The speakers are twenty-five. The twenty-five speakers have said to speak in principle. When they are registered on the articles, they will be twenty-five more. So we have tomorrow's day too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u89	What do you say, Mr. Economou?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u90	Unless the government thinks that this very great stumbling block, the great reform of mental health, we can glue in a few hours to undo it. That's how we understand the importance she gives her heart.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u91	All right, you're heard. Have a seat now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u92	But I have never seen major reforms in one day beyond the conventions and conditions.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u93	Okay. Have a seat now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u94	Madam President, I want the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u95	I will give you the floor on the Rules of Procedure. First let me say something. When I started, I announced what the matter is. There were several of our colleagues here. We are discussing in principle the articles, amendments and the whole draft law of the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u96	Not at a meeting.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u97	Your rapporteur has said so, Mr Economou.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u98	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u99	Stop, Mr. Economou, finally. So sacred indignation! It's the first time you've lived that! Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u100	No, I'm responding to Mrs. Jufi's indignation.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u101	I don't know where you're responding. Please! There's a class in here. The subject of today's debate was also discussed at the beginning of the sitting. That's it and we're done. Mr Loverdos wants the floor on the Rules of Procedure. Tell us, Mr. Loverdo, what you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u102	Madam President, I did not say by chance this morning that you should see this issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u103	We've seen it and answered it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u104	You've answered me in a way that we'll see.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u105	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u106	Now see what the application of the Rules of Procedure has to do with what you say. When you call on the rapporteurs - and some of them, if not all of them, are too experienced on the issues - and when a draft law on mental health comes with ten amendments - of which eight are coming today for the first time - they should know in the fifteen minutes if they have time for the main draft law, if they have time for the amendments, what they have time for them. In the first place? On the articles? If you announce that we will go to a second meeting, you will allow the second one to be in the articles and amendments. When you do not do that, the rapporteur does not know what he will say and you say to him: 'Get up everything, say it and see it.' That is not the case, Madam President. Now you have to tell Mr. Gregoraco what he should say...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u107	I announced a single procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u108	If you go to the single procedure, as you have announced,...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u109	Good. I announced it all along.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u110	... you require the rapporteurs to speak of everything and the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u111	Oh, of course, that's what I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u112	Is that right?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u113	If it's right or not, we'll judge it along the way.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u114	Is it right, Madam President?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u115	I said that the second day was decided by the number of speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u116	So now that you've said it...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u117	So now that twenty-five speakers have been written, we will judge here whether we will continue the next day.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u118	And so your decision will be announced after the rapporteurs have been bought. That's great!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u119	What does that have to do with anything, Mr. Loverdo?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u120	It has something to do with it, because, when the Rules of Procedure allow for the first time, you make another point.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u121	You won't talk again.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u122	When he tells you about everything, you need to pack up the fifteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u123	We know that. Mr. Loverdo, this has been done on several occasions. You have experience.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u124	One amendment is for insurance. And she needs a special speech. How's it going to happen?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u125	And if you ask for the floor you won't talk, how do you see it?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u126	It's not like that! No, of course not, because he has a short time. And then you start and say that the rapporteurs are speaking against Members.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u127	So, on the Rules of Procedure now, will you tell us what you want? What is this Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u128	We want you to tell us how you organise the procedure so that our rapporteur knows what he will do.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u129	That is why I read the agenda three times as I announced it. I declared a single procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u130	So we're still going with the single. You're still wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u131	Mr. Gregorakos has the floor. Here, Mr. Gregorako, you have the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u132	Leonidas acquired three lawyers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u133	My dear Yannis, I truly respect you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u134	It's always extinguishing passions.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u135	Well, ladies and gentlemen, I had prepared my speech to speak today at the outset only and not to enter the debate on the articles. Salamation will do everything together, of course, and the amendments, my dear Yiannis. In one day, we have to come over to discuss this bill, all together and whatever comes out. Because I happened to be the rapporteur in the previous bill of the Ministry of Interior, a hundred articles bill, we put this one day and at the end the MPs were not talking, they were all tired ten, twelve hours on. All right, what are they gonna do in the end? In the end, they'll get tired, they'll give up, and they'll leave. That's not how democracy is, dear Yannis. Democracy gives space, gives time, lets the citizen think and decide. Don't tell me now that all of you who came here today know about the health bill and what it includes today! Well, because I'm gonna say things very practical and there's gonna be things that they won't like. But they'd better not like it. We didn't come here to pet anyone's ears today. Because before the January 2015 elections you had given it all. "We will do that for doctors, we will do that for the ESS, we will do one, we will do the other." The Prime Minister went to Keratsini and took out a programme of 12 billion. Two years have passed - in March he had gone to Keratsini - and said the ten health issues and he has not done one of them. So if you want us to sacrifice them all like this and quickly pass a bill of two hundred pages in fifteen minutes, we will do it. But that's not a democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, I have placed myself on the bill in committee. I am negative at first, because it is a bill that has ten articles on mental health and forty articles on ruffles. I'm not going to talk to you again one by one. I know it from the outside. I don't have to have the bill here either. I believe that health is a cultural indicator, it is an indicator of the development and prosperity of a place. And so I see it in my soul, in my heart, in my life, in my course in a space of thirty-nine years, without my students' years. So with this, I want to place myself here today. I serve health and politics. So, well, I might be strict. What can we do? I won't pet anyone's ears. I will testify my own crises and assessments for this bill, but also in general for the health of the country. I would ask all of you, from all the wings of the Parliament, to visit a large hospital in the country, Attica, Athens, Thessaloniki, Patras, Heraklion in one day on a newspaper. Let me see how proud you will be, as parliamentarians and representatives of the Greek people, when you will be in the Emergency of "Evangelism", "KAT", "State of Athens", "AHEPA", "Larissa", "Ioannina", Crete. Go to a Health Center and see how health centers have become in recent years with the change in PEDY. And we're talking today and in the bill here what we're going to do about the two thousand doctors. Whatever you say, whatever you may find health today, health will fall short of the needs of the country, especially in a country where there is a crisis. Sometimes the cruel truth goes beyond any mental mood to justify certain things. The imprint of the country's multiple retardation not only in material goods, but also in goods, which have affected the mentalisation of the people and especially health professionals due to the workload, which have been forced by the large hospitals, but also by the country's prefecture hospitals due to a lack of money and a reduction of health services by the private sector, shows how far the country has been back in the last eight years of the crisis in Greece. If anyone wears deformative lenses, he will say what one colleague said a moment ago: 'Go up and over, because we're very concerned about it.' I believe that none of you and none of us will avoid the great shock of what they will see, seeing Greece successfully compete with the third world alone and not with the civilised world. Because the conditions for on-call in hospitals in Greece are third-world. Indeed, he may, when he goes there, find himself in complete confusion when he thinks he is in a European country and not in a sub-Saharan region. There is, therefore, a debate today on public health. I don't want, neither do I, nor you and no Greek citizen hiding the reality or covering everything they see. The disorganization of the National Health System, the decomposition of the Health Centers, the lack of primary care, show us that the major patient of the crisis in Greece is health. The big marks are evident in all its structures. We cannot only talk about the present and should not look at the past. We need to see what we will do in the future, what we will do from now on. Let's forget about it, let's stop it, but let's give some people the chance to tell us the opposite. The opposite opinion is not always harmful. Anyone who has not learned to listen to criticism cannot rule. Our differences in this approach today are substantial and great. Anyone who tries to level what has happened in previous years is out of the question. I represent a party which has done a great deal in this area. And that cannot be called into question. But he cannot say today, today, by appreciating the result, that every yesterday and every day better. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, this is the case in the National Health System, as well as in all health structures. The bankruptcy, ladies and gentlemen, has not only been manifested in budgetary derailment. It manifested itself, of course, in the main health sector where the unreasonable policies pursued with the medicine, with the materials, with the various companies, which were sewed by hospitals, the public health system, the private sector, which was and remains state-owned, irreversibly hit the country and led it to a memorandum. Only health costs between 2004 and 2009 could lead the country to a memorandum. But the efforts made during the crisis - and I do not question that you are trying to do too, but do not doubt that the others have tried, each in their own way, but have tried, and you are trying, I cannot say that you are not trying to do certain things - they have been interrupted. Because some believe that the state, health, is their own shop alone and nobody else can give any advice. You're not listening. There are proposals that could be implemented and improved the health conditions of the Greek people. Two years - I don't know, you'll hear the ministers if they're proud of their account - but the facts are relentless. The collapse is fabulous. I will not say what happened and how it fell. We'll look for it a little better. We will see what happened there with my colleague at the Municipal Hospital who fell down from the stairs, a hospital which, in my opinion, should not exist in the National Health System of Attica. This hospital - because I have also financed a president thirty years ago, in 1987, in the hospital's urology, cardinal and pathological clinic - was Otto's stables and we had to move it to Attica or "Thriasio", but interest did not allow us to do so. It is a hospital that I don't think provides honor for Greek citizens and especially for the Athenians. The listing of such situations in hospitals and cases is multiple. So instead of taking care, ladies and gentlemen, of strengthening medical and nursing staff, you care about your party army. I ask you the other day, and I am told: 'The hospital was brought to a very large number of people'. I saw a report yesterday on the channels. For these people, I don't blame, they have to find a job. We really need to employ them, they have huge social needs. We have to give them a job. To give them, ladies and gentlemen, work, I didn't say they didn't get the job. Is it necessary to go on becoming a sixty-five-year-old traumatist or sister nurse? You're both doctors. To say you weren't doctors, to understand someone, but you have a sixty-five-year-old lady to make the assistant nurse, to make nights in her sixty-five years, or a traumatizer who can't pick up the stretcher or know how to pick up the stretcher, doesn't know how to get it from the O.R. to put him there, go to the hospital a year, ten months? Put him anywhere else. So try at all costs, with opposition proposals to satisfy individual groups by adopting extreme and fragile interests. Your real footprint is only partisanism and populism. You'll regret them. We did it, and we regret it. It's two sides of the same coin. We tell you: 'Don't do it.' The management, therefore, inadequacy and inability are complemented by your informal and foreign policy choices and choices. In simple words, I would like to say that this bill, from wherever you get it, is a bill that, despite the good intentions, for mental health everywhere shines. I'll tell you a few things that suck. You have an article inside for PED doctors. So, what did you do? You promised them everything to these two thousand doctors. I don't know what you fed them, well done, they were election. But you had to do what you had to do with it. You come now and say: 'Let's give a year more to 30-3-2018'. I don't know why you're doing this. I think that you are politically the ones who say 'complete and exclusive employment'. If I remember correctly, in your party's proposals and in your ideology for the National Health System, full and exclusive employment. I, to tell you, have reformed my opinion. I have not been through my party, but I am telling you that I am saying 'yes', 'yes', but I would also discuss the non-exclusive at some point, but we will discuss this below. So we disagree with this article. Another article!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u136	Do you disagree with the full and exclusive or extension?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u137	We disagree with this, with the doctors, with this article. This is full and exclusive employment.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u138	Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u139	So, at the moment, which is full and exclusive employment, any postponement backwards hides different thoughts, which may be behind me and may not be made known in this House. It gives me the right to think about everything. If you want, then, to apply primary care to the CEDEFOP, we should implement the law. Come on, then, and apply the law. So I do not vote for this article. Secondly, your rapporteur said earlier that you are dealing with medical issues. Madam President, please, because I am now entering the articles.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u140	I'm sorry?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u141	I want your tolerance, I don't have time to organise my debate. Now I'm gonna talk about the articles.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u142	You still have time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u143	I have three minutes to talk about 50 articles. I want your tolerance, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u144	But you're talking and teaching all this time. Tell your views about the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u145	The beginning of what was it, Madam President? At first I was talking. I was talking about the bill. I was talking about health. The bill on the movement of doctors from the barren regions: no objections, ladies and gentlemen. No objections. We cannot exclude these people from being on the islands and in difficult areas. However, I also told you in committee that a doctor, who lacks experience, scientific knowledge and has not seen the incidents of the large hospitals in Athens, the large prefecture hospitals, the large university hospitals, because he has offered us five years' service where he has offered us - and we thank him for that - to assimilate him. In other words, our criteria must not be scientific. There must be other criteria which cannot enable this doctor to come from the Pylos Health Center to become a director of Evangelism. Why, I'll tell you one thing the doctors only know about. A doctor when he moves from there enters the internal system of progression in the hospital. Not all doctors in Greece, Minister. And if you wanted to do that, you should have corrected that. That is, when an organic position is evacuated in Evangelism, that of the director of the cardiological clinic, that doctor will be able to put, while a doctor much better than he is, from another hospital will not be able to put in. So, Minister, you'll have to see this again. I do not want to exclude anyone, and those colleagues who live - unless they do not know themselves - in such areas and in health centres and are cardiologists and other specialities, cannot ask each other to become coordinators, managers in a large hospital in the country. They know what's going on with them. Give it a chance to come to a lesser degree, if anyone wants to move, and get to the hospital hierarchy. You're talking about OKANA. I, because I was rapporteur in the bill, found out from all the articles you have in, and I do not want to blame anyone, I do not know how many people have had the debate with the people concerned per article, I did with those interested per article - and I was told by OKANA: You change the procedure of competitions and treatment. Because with the present system, the reagents give you a qualitative and quantitative analysis of the patient's treatment. In other words, depending on the amount, quality and quantity of blood in the patient's blood, the patient also receives the appropriate treatment from OKANA. You are trying to give the opportunity now to be done by the dry method. I mean, positive-negative. Minister, you need to see this. You must not go into this article. I'm going to go to the other article with the medical clubs. You're government. You have the four biggest medical clubs in the country. The New Democracy will be apologised for. I'm not apologizing. For the position of the PI and the position of the representatives of the New Democracy, to apologise. I'm telling you, because I know the presidents and I think you've seen them one by one. Do you really know that the president of PIS has a company and has built an institute? Do you know that?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u146	Which company. Are you serious?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u147	If you don't know, Psi has an institute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u148	Of course, just like GSEE.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u149	Yeah, we did it nicely. But you can't check what he's done. You're doing great there. I denounce the New Democracy for that. To pick people up if she thinks they're hers and they've never been anywhere else. What do the four presidents say? That this can't be done. So, what we're asking for, we're gonna pack it up and put it down with Psi, why are we doing this? I remember one of your corporations, who has recently been lost from the channels. But when he was the Loverd Minister from OENGE, the doctor from Halkidiki was on a channel every day. Have you seen him in recent years at all, since the day you took over the country's rulership? Oh, no. How will it get a role? Through Mr. Vlastarakou, through PIS. So you decide whether or not this article will be voted on. We do not vote for this article. I'm going to another article. As far as general doctors are concerned, I think you have given a good solution there. About the article relating to hospitals and quality: I had spoken from here about Onasios and the other hospitals, about what is going on last time. We gave you these. They were ours. Imagine how arrogant your strains are. I never believe in the history of this party rapporteur to get an e-mail from a hospital president and to talk to him about his objections and to tell him his opinion and not through the Minister. I told you, Minister. I didn't tell the President of the Ocean to answer my question to the President of the Ocean. You will answer me for the whole process of the President of Onasios and how from the Open University, how from the arms of the PASOK, the New Democracy and the Co-government, which was in all the hospitals of the country, it was found to be the "first hand" and the "first violin" in Onasio and to run the hospital alone. Because you went to change the members of the Board of Directors, appealed, cancelled your appointment and now this gentleman is running the hospital alone. In fact, he has the nerve to write to me that the hospital works better than the previous years. If he didn't bless his beards, what would he do? And why shouldn't it work better, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u150	Mr. Gregoraco, you're short.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u151	I shall conclude, Madam President. I'm talking about health, Madam President. You confuse me here. Didn't you tell me to talk for so long? [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] You don't like... I'm done. I'll tell you in my denture.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u152	Come on, Mr. Gregoraco. We don't have any special treatment. It's all the same.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u153	Can I tell you why? Because you have taken 31 million from the EEA, with 42 million donated Onassis to the state -73 that is - and the Foundation says now that it will give you 45 million for next week if the Prime Minister goes there to make a fiasco that there will be an extension of the Onasios. I would like you, Minister, to tell me where this money is going from the Greek people, because when the Greek people go to Onasio, they pay an upgrade. And he pays a lot of money! I'd like in your speech to tell me the youngest doctor on the Ocean. I'll tell you what? Three hundred thousand a year. If you can answer me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u154	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after taking part in the educational programme of the "Democracy Workshop" organized by the Foundation, twenty-three students and students and an instructor from the 6th Primary School of Argyroupolis. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Aivatidis has the floor from Golden Dawn for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u155	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to tell you right from the outset that we are indifferently voting against this draft law, which is a manifestation of a Memorandum Policy. On 6 March of this year, and on the occasion of this draft law, the "Prescribers' Newspaper" made the opinion of authoritarian psychiatrists public - a newspaper which, as we know, combats the nationalist movement of the Golden Dawn in an unholy manner - an article in which it characterises the administrative reform of mental health, which relates to the specific draft law, as a "sex of figur" of repressive psychiatry. In part, we agree with this title, as with the content of this article. However, we would say that this draft law is a'sheet of figurative' of a memorial, neoliberal, essentially political, since public mental health is being destroyed and in some way invade the private sector as a Trojan horse. And this is done with Article 48, where the Anonymous Society of Health Units, a tool of applied neoliberalism, is now involved in mental health and effectively undermines responsibility from public mental health, from the public sector. This, of course, proves the statement made by the Minister for Health on his part in favour of public health. Of course, the New Democracy rapporteur spoke of some allergy that the ministers have in the private sector. I would say that they have a rapidly growing addiction to private sector involvement in public health and, in particular, mental health. This is not, therefore, a psychiatric reform, but an administrative type of reform that effectively removes responsibility from the administrations of psychiatric hospitals and public mental health units. The remaining public psychiatric hospitals are actually going to be abolished, and even without having preceded the creation of these necessary structures for the benefit of the patient and their families. This marginalisation, the division which appears to be attempting to create the government with this bill, is a pragmatic reform. There is no reference to specific individuals corresponding to each sector. The mental health sector, which should include a mental health centre and a psychiatric clinic in general hospital and related Community services, should be up to a maximum of 100 000 people. There is no reference to such a proportion of the population, and we therefore condemn it as a procession, and it is essentially an euphemist psychiatric reform, because psychiatric reform must address the serious problems of this sector. Major theme is preventive psychiatry. I also stressed in the committees that the "Greek Psychiatric Society", which has dealt with all aspects of psychiatry in Greece, mentions a 30% increase in suicide in the period of prolonged and deep recession, the economic crisis. This administrative type of reform of this legislation does not solve major issues, such as the issue of involuntary hospitalisations of public orders - where there may be an abuse of them - and the major problem of psychiatric hospitals for involuntary hospitals from remote areas, for example from Karditsa to hospitals in Athens. Therefore, this administrative reform does not essentially resolve any major issues relating to psychiatry, that is, it is not psychiatric reform. We had also proposed to the committee that the Ministry should be set up to establish a body for preventive psychiatry on the issue of suicide. We haven't heard. I shall refer to a number of articles, which we shall vote against. Article 25 says - unless, as has been said, a legislative improvement has been made by the Minister - that general medical expertise will be granted to doctors without specialisation. We realise that it is an attempt to increase minimum wages in the number of fellow doctors. But the way, manoeuvring, we do not think it is appropriate. The same applies to the provision of qualifications in pathological oncology to pathologists. These methods of circumventing legal procedures for medical specialists are considered to be critical, and we will therefore vote against them. For Article 20, for the Neoplasms Archive, I will repeat that sentences are really excruciating if no reference is made to malignant neoplasm disease from a private clinic. It is possible to make mistakes. The rigour should certainly not be exhausted in these cases, because there are precancerous situations, for example, such as the atypical hyperplasia of the endometrium where it is not specified whether this should be disclosed or not, and if not, whether this strict penalty is not brought to an end, even if the clinical trial is stopped. With regard to dentistry and treatment, it is astonishing - and I do not understand why - the explicit reference to autonomy and independence of these scientists is being made. Both dentistry and treatment are dependent sciences and arts. And that's what I'm saying. It does not mean, in other words, that because the dentist is dependent on the dentist in the context of professional cooperation, this is a disgrace to the dentist or the doctor in analogy. We believe that these two conditions of autonomy and independence should be removed so that we can take a position that is not negative for these articles. The Memorandum of Understanding of the Ministry of Health - it is, in fact, of particular importance and gravity - results from the following: In the first two months of this year, the state budget shows a surplus that is purely fictitious, since many hospitals have not submitted budgets to the General Accounting Office of the State, and this delays the disbursement of credits so that this fictitious surplus is created. I will repeat that this draft law does not betray this bias that the Minister claims to have in favour of public health and private health. The other day, I put a written question to the Minister for the malfunctioning of the Artificial Nebru Unit at the General Hospital of Corfu. It is certain that it will respond in the same way as it has been in the past, making reference, in the pretext of the ongoing judicial procedure concerning the Golden Dawn, to the pretext of constitutional and parliamentary order. I have repeatedly denounced and amplified this behaviour. But, Mr President-in-Office, I would like to warn you that, for the last time, I call on you to change your tactics and answer the questions of the Golden Dawn, because they are questions from Members who are representatives of the people. And I assure you - I commit you - even though you are covered by the law of'substantially responsible' concerning criminal duty violations, if any, that we will move any legal other means to claim our fairness, because your conduct is insulting and your documents are slanderous both for the Members who submit questions and for the Golden Dawn as a whole. The Golden Dawn, which insists on national ideals and is fighting for them, believes that the Greek people will isolate these phenomena of the nationalist movement and will soon give victory to the Golden Dawn for the Golden Dawn of Hellenism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u156	The special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Lambroulis, now has the floor. Here, Mr. Lambroulis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u157	Thank you, Madam President. With institutional change in the administrative organisation of mental health services promoted through the bill, it turns out that the government not only accepts the policy of privatisation, the closure of public specialist psychiatric hospitals and the fragmentation of mental health structures, which all previous urban governments have followed, but is moving further forward, which is an essential element of its policy. In other words, it ensures the administrative, institutional role of entrepreneurs, individuals and NGOs, who have strengthened their action in the field of mental health, particularly in paedophile services, and the reciprocity of these services from public sector units. It literally implements the European Union's policy, namely, the management of the huge problems of patients on the basis of the fact that they are a source of loss of productivity, without any measures to burden the state budget. Thus, the bodies set up - the sectoral scientific committees, the regional administrations of mental health, the regional cross-sectoral councils - are going to be the instruments - the new tools - to manage existing problems that have arisen in the process of so-called psychiatric reform, so that the reactionary changes and strategies of the European Union on mental health can be implemented more effectively. Faced with fragmentation, fragmentation and degradation of services provided due to the absolute structure of mental health, public, private sector, non-governmental organisations, the new management bodies are attempting to manage more effectively and the given policy of sub-financing, sub-station and the lack of public mental health units. That is why, as well as increasing, the powers of the new institutions are being strengthened, for example, the possibility of proposing the establishment, merger, transfer or dismantling of mental health units, mental health sectors or the mental health sectors of children and adults, or of proposing the movement, secondment, transfer of personnel according to needs. In other words, the task of the sectoral committees, scientific councils, is to design and specialise central policy in their area of responsibility. With the creation of the new institutions, the government's objective is to strengthen both the state's executive and supervisory role, which it calls 'decentralisation', so that it can deal with issues that exist that its policy does not allow it to tackle radically, such as control, epidemiological recording, continuity in medical surveillance and treatment. And these are neither to be safeguarded since mental health structures are not part of a single state health-care system, globally developed, at all levels, especially that of the Primary Health Care. Preventing and promoting mental health how will it be developed, which is one of the responsibilities of the sectoral scientific committees, if the State does not have a central design based on scientific and epidemiological recording, by organising the respective services, its development at all levels, primary, secondary, tertiary, health system? So whatever programmes and actions are being prepared, they have nothing to do with the essential content of full and comprehensive prevention and promotion of mental health. They'll be exhausted in information campaigns. That is the European Union's policy and direction. That is the policy of both the present and the previous governments. In fact, in order to enhance the effectiveness of the new institutions, the Government is making use of the heresy of the members of the sectoral scientific committees in the sense of participation and democracy, in order to implement democratically the anti-grass-frame that it itself forms. Its aim is, therefore, to develop a scientific capacity that will be exploited not only in the study and in the scientific support of its policy, but in the active involvement in the implementation of this policy. This role will not be played by the intermediate administrative bodies appointed by the Minister, the ratification or not of the proposals of the sectoral committees - which will oversee - on the basis of whether they implement this anti-popular government policy in a definite way? This is therefore a mechanism for integrating health, studied and tested, in the name of participation and democracy. It is, moreover, a strategic choice for the government and SYRIZA. In the same way as the policy of the European Union, the representatives of the Public Health Services, the family associations of people with mental disorders, as well as the local administration, will work. Aim through so-called democratic participation in the context of social participation and control in the organisation of the health system, the integration of the people into co-management and co-responsibility, both in the formulation and implementation of anti-popular state policy. So instead of claiming solutions, patients and their families themselves take on self-management of their illness and play the role of social policy. It is the so-called ‘consultation’ for mental health, one of the strategic directions of the European Union and the World Health Organisation, since, as indicated in their texts, user and parent groups, workers, NGOs must be the main primary health care providers and their main support network. Together with this, we also have the upgrading, strengthening of the role of the private sector, since through its representation in the sectoral, in this respect, scientific committees will have a say, it will be actively involved in the design and development of mental health services by promoting its interests. We believe that the people's needs for modern and high-level services can be met by creating an integrated network exclusively of public, free services that meets the real needs of not only the patients, but also of their families, as well as of all the people, with the main priority of prevention at all levels - primary, secondary, tertiary - in all areas of social activity - in education, in the workplace, in the family, etc. - with a central role to play by the Psychiatric Health Centre as part of the single operational health centre, which performs community care, is interconnected with its areas of responsibility at every level, schools, hostels, sheltered apartments, boarding houses, public psychiatric clinics, hospitals. Through the services of the Psychiatric Health Center, all age groups and categories of diseases throughout the population are covered with scientific and only criteria for the patient's integration into different structures, making use of scientific knowledge and modern technology equipment for all, without exceptions and conditions, with the connection, of course, of all services to ensure the patient's continuity and, thus, the patient's rehabilitation. A prerequisite for its implementation is to stop health being treated as a commodity, as is currently the case, by abolishing all business activities as a whole to health. In order to implement, this requires a break, a conflict with the European Union's policy, with business groups marketing health services, welfare and medicine, a break and overthrow the capitalist development path, based on the legacy of the social benefits and rights of workers and patients. On the basis of the above and on the basis of the criteria that through the promoted administrative organisation of mental health services, the private sector remains the reactionary content of psychiatric reform, the anti-grassroots policy of co-government in health and mental health is intensified, but also with the new bodies that the government is building, we estimate and say that we will have the same anti-grassant effect. We shall vote against Articles 1, 2, 4, 6 and 8, while on the articles relating to the establishment of the institutions we shall vote'residents'. From the overall regulation of the bill, we evaluate and, to us, have particular importance, the articles relating to - and this is, of course, a criterion for voting against the bill at first - mental health, which implement or correct aspects of psychiatric reform, with which we disagree. We also disagree with some other articles, such as those that support the privatisation and business activities of public health establishments, Articles 48 and 49 with AEMY, Article 42 which strengthens the private business sector, lending, etc., the control of primary health care units of these private units, the establishment of legal persons governed by public law, to dental practitioners and to aero-medicators from Articles 57 to 91 - I say it now - the establishment of a Panhellenic Society of Physiotherapists with Article 55, the incentive to performance of IEO staff under Article 53. These are, therefore, basic articles that define the vote in the bill as a whole. Of course, there are also articles on which we shall be voting 'in favour' and on which we shall vote 'in favour'. I now enter the second chapter on the Expert Centres, which are Articles 9 to 17. We agree on the existence of these centres, but there are some basic points which we consider to be a criterion and which determines our vote. The point is that anywhere in the articles of the bill does not mention the state's obligation to provide financing, staffing, infrastructure, equipment, etc., so that some public units acquire everything they need to develop as centres of expertise rare and complex diseases. It seems that the state sets the standards, but it will be primarily the responsibility of public health units to ensure the necessary. For example, Articles 10 and 11 go beyond the criteria of cost, cost-effective treatment, cost-effective use of resources, best practices. In our opinion, these are criteria on the basis of the cost-benefit basis, where growth, staffing, equipment and services are determined on the basis of economic criteria rather than on the basis of public needs. Thus, on the basis of the above, it appears that the development of such centres, wherever they are, will depend mainly on the development of the public-sector business activity and their partnership with the private-sector business sector in order to manage to be within these specifications. Moreover, at the theoretical level, provision will remain for monitoring these patients at the primary level of health after their hospitalisation at these centres. This, in order to achieve this, needs a fully developed primary health system, which does not exist or is expected to exist in the future with the government's policy. With regard to Article 26, which concerns the procedure and conditions for the integration of doctors, dentists with an individual, private medicine in public, primary health care with a full-time and full-time employment relationship, we have also said so in committee that we are in favour of full-time and full-time employment and, in addition, of permanent residence. Because we have also said so in the Committee on Full and Exclusive Employment. Isn't that right? They're not permanent. We believe that this employment relationship should apply to all health workers, and that is what we consider to be of benefit to patients too. That is why we are asking all doctors and all workers with employment relationships as subsidiarys, service cards, etc., at all levels of the public health system to be permanently and exclusively employed. If the government were to solve the major problems of subsidizing public primary health care units, it would have to have several thousand doctors and other health care establishments in order to meet people's needs, much more with the need not only to operate the existing units but also to develop further. It should adequately finance primary health care both for the operation of the units and for the full and free provision of services to everyone. The government's policy on all of this is in the opposite direction. It cuts benefits, increases payments by patients, flags full and exclusive employment for a small number of doctors who are self-employed and employed in the units of the CEDN just before retirement, while at the same time promotes flexible working relationships across the public health system and supports health businessmen in general and primary health care. In fact, he does what the previous governments have done. It uses as a cover for this regulation for full and exclusive employment in order to hide its overall anti-grass design and primary health care. And all that we have said, which relates to our permanent position on the health system and on the working relationships of doctors and other workers, does not mean that we are left indifferent to the problems that are created in this section of doctors, who may be forced to leave the units of the EMCDDA and will be weakened further by these units with negative effects on patients. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Vice-President of Parliament is ringing at this point.]] I shall conclude, Madam President, in one or two minutes. The fear expressed by these doctors who are part of the regulation - and also expressed in committee - is well founded that, since the government plan for supposedly primary health care other than everyone else does not provide for medical expertise, is it not possible for them to enter and, after they have been closed down, they are considered not necessary for primary health care and ultimately without any opportunity to work until they are retired? Moreover, the problem is the issue of crises and their inclusion in the doctors' sector - and the law of the previous government foresaw it - of the ERC. But what prevented and did not happen to this day? Who guarantees it's going to happen now? The regulation does not even provide for the retrospective payment of the difference between the class of university education and the class of ERC doctors. We ask that it be included together with full and exclusive employment and a permanent employment relationship with full employment, insurance rights as a minimum guarantee of the work of doctors and other workers, in a complete, developed, with all the qualifications of doctors, public and free primary health care. This employment relationship should be the only one for all workers, to judge all doctors working as an IP on the sole basis of years of service and to join the ERC doctors' sector with the corresponding fees, which must of course be increased. Retrospectively, the amounts resulting from their allowance as officials of the class of university education must be paid. And to resolve the question that arises about the particular category of doctors as they have done at the bottom - down and in other cases. And on the basis of the above, we shall vote in this particular article. As far as I am concerned, Madam President - and I am finishing - the amendments will of course also be heard by the Minister's legislative improvements and, if necessary, we will be placed on some of the articles that might change. But also for the amendments, I think we shall have at least the rapporteurs' right of dentistry to argue on the amendments. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u158	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty students and students and two educational attendants from the 5th Municipal School of St. Anargyra. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Athanasios Papachristopoulos has the floor from the Independent Greeks for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u159	Thank you, Madam President. I would first like to focus on an event that took place a few days ago. One newspaper published some information - and I really would like to believe that the newspaper is wrong - where a Minister of Health, recently, signed a letter before he left - and we know that there is a fixed beginning, that is, the old ministers never signed anything in the last month of their term of office, except when it was a national matter or something very important - and it was heard that 65 million won a particular company from this signature. I want to wish that the newspaper is not right and the Minister really has done his job properly. I would like, however, once again to refresh our memory and say that some 86 billion was the health fund, the terrible health party that took place for many years, almost a quarter of public debt. That can't be questioned by anyone, it's a fact. I would also like to refresh our memory that the current leadership of the Ministry of Health has received a deficit of around 930 million, close to a billion, and one year later it delivers a surplus of 35 million, but a small surplus. I'm saying this because who says that with a bill, I'm immediately correcting health? For God's sake, no one's saying it, I don't think that government will say it too. There's been a great effort for the first time. I've heard things in this Chamber since this morning, screaming. I say that the emergency departments must have their own director and not come with the suitcase and be imported, i.e. "Yiannis is buying, Yiannis drinks." It is something that this government does, and has declared its positions, for those who do not know. To stop this mess going on in the emergency department. Secondly, for this reason I have been shouting for twenty years, we need much more beds in Intensive Treatment Units. Do we have them? Oh, no. We've had it for a long time. Some beds may have been manned, but there was no staff. I didn't say he was solved. Successful demand determines the success of the programme. If the demand is 10 and one is not solved, it is improved. Personnel intake. No one has said, again, that health problems are solved at once. An effort is made. Was there a party in health? He was. To stop this party. I believe that this government is doing so. It is confronted with some interests, and that is why it is also subject to such attacks. I'm coming to this bill. He had the right to the mentally ill, who cannot defend his rights, to have a lawyer and to say "Hey, children, why do you take me to the hospital with an order?". He didn't have that right. He's got it now. There are incidents where the family environment of an elderly person takes away mentally ill and takes his fortune. Does this bill give him the possibility? He's been giving it to him for the first time. To refresh our memory as well and say this: we have all lived, we have grown, with three social stables. One fortunately left the middle, and it was the cause of a large piece of doctors who were honestly serving mental health, getting in front of me and talking about Leros's vagina. In other words, we had to disperse internationally to stop this story. But the Daphne social outcry remained. In any village in Greece they learned that one of their own people went to Dafni was a relic of life, and so was Dromocaeio. How long does it take to understand that demolition is a 30-year-old conquest in a united Europe, which we all want to belong to? There's been an effort - I don't level things out. It didn't work. In fact, many sounded strange, they said, "How will this thing happen? These are dangerous." Thirty years ago, these things have been done in Denmark, Sweden, Germany and Great Britain. And we're coming now - afterward? Retrospectively, it's okay - to make an effort that needs to be made. It is unbelievable and I believe it is the mirror of a country's culture, because mentally ill citizens cannot defend basic rights. There's nothing a healthy citizen can do here, who's not mentally ill. Imagine the one who is unaware of what is going on. Wasn't it supposed to happen? For the first time, therefore, there is a road map, which these people with seven specific legislation shield the possibility of defending themselves for the first time. Let's go down there. A point of reference was always the Ministry of Health, that is, for God's sake! Is the Department of Health Psychiatric Health a reference point for all of Greece? Oh, no. This structure had to be changed, and I want to believe that everyone welcomed it, at least in the basics, to become decentralisation, so that the mentally ill can address his municipality, not to say to his village. I'm not an ether. What I have seen abroad is still - I say, I have no objection to saying - about us, for example, the consultant, who is the right hand of the mentally ill person and in Europe has been established for thirty years and has almost determined his life. It is not necessary to be a doctor, it may be in the social services of a municipality, a public service, to be a nurse, even if it has nothing to do with health, but it is a man who has responsibility and specializes in supporting a mentally ill person. I am not an etherist, I think it is a question and we should at some point see it. In fact, it should be shielded with all the legal framework. I think it's an effort in the right direction. And because I have listened carefully to the opposition parties, I have not seen this totalitarianness that I see in other bills, i.e. I have seen that they truly acknowledge that some parts must be supported. And that's what I'm saying. In other words, in this bill, the word 'partnership' does not exist. We have indeed lived this, thought wickedly, and said, “Why? Customership, etc.’ Aren't you gonna tell me we can't? Yes, it is done and the word 'partnership' slowly has to go out of our lives. It'll be years. But not every move that is taking place immediately to see her with misery and misery. I want to come to some specific articles. I do not want to take all the time, Madam President, and I think there has been a very detailed debate in the committees. We heard them with great respect and with the exception of the WTO - and I say this directly - who found it all wrong - her right - all the others were consensual, with proposals which I would like to believe will be taken into account by the Ministry. However, there are three four articles I want to see a little bit. For example, I think there was a bombardment on the subject of general doctors and some doctors who haven't taken the expertise of general medicine. I think that there needs to be a compromise solution and it has already been found, and I think there is consensus from all parties and from the opposition, and I think it will be accepted. The second part, which I consider to be very important and has become a great deal of talk, is for the doctors of the TEN. And that is a point that we need to see. He's giving an extension. It is a good thing, because I have heard the representative of the Association say to us on the left 'that you have said about full and exclusive and do tomorrow'. It's not like that, because people after twenty-five years working have organized their lives, they've given money, etc. The extension given to me must be done as follows: For those retired at the end of 2018 there must be an extension until the end, because it is unfair for a few months to lose it. And we need to see this with respect. Also, to give a second chance to many of those who made a mistake, they shut down their doctors, they did the private, they saw that it wasn't their interest, etc. It is not wrong and we should see this again, and I think the Minister will be a little too - I will hear his speech - has accepted it. But there, where I want to focus, it's from now on. For years we have known that we had a problem with how the arid regions of the country will be manned, whether they are called islands or downfall mountains. In fact, a lot of motives were given in the parallel bill. For those who have forgotten about it, it's the bill where for the first time - our language may still be hairy, but we'll say it - people who didn't dare go to medicine, surgery, surgery, and we all know that they can. And there's no few of these people. It is the social state that some had forgotten, to tell the truth as we should call it. In this parallel program there were motives for barren doctors. Here comes a particular article and specializes them, and indeed enables doctors to claim a better position. I listened carefully to the special speaker of the Democratic Partnership, who said - and I do not disagree with him in this part - that a doctor who has served many years in a province cannot go directly. That's where a formula has to be found, but it's not that major. Because usually doctors who have an incentive to go to the province and then have a stimulus to come to the center are young doctors. Therefore, this is not the case. But here I would like to make a point, which is not self-interested, but I have heard it from many of my fellow doctors. You need to find a formula. To a doctor who, for some reason, though serving in Athens, wants to go, for example, to Naxos or elsewhere, you don't give him the opportunity. What for? Or a doctor who serves in a provincial hospital, which is not barren, for serious social reasons, why don't you give him the opportunity if his father, his mother or his brothers have a huge social problem to go? I think it's unfair. I heard the argument, and I respect it, that there will be a movement of doctors, etc. That's right. I didn't have to make an application. I think, however, that you can see this, my Minister, not for an organic position, but let it also be personal. However, to be able to make his application and to have three or four safeguards: the Commander, the State Secretary, the Ministry. But you can also give him the chance, because there are social problems and there are people who are locked up. One wants, for example, to leave Carditsa and go to Volos or to Yannina in Alexandroupolis, why do you deprive him of it? You don't give him any chance, and that's unfair. It's not rushphetti. Find the insurance policy and do it. Finally, I want to say this. There is much to be said and I think that the amendments should be reduced to every bill. I am one of the Members - I bless my beards now - who, in order to bring an amendment, should be cannabis injustice. I think it is our sacred obligation not to give rights. The amendments that are coming must be reduced. There are too many of them. I know there are a lot of bad texts. I know that many of these, such as cancers, such as the rare diseases, had to be introduced. Nobody's talking about it. Some other amendments should have been envisaged. Especially some who are fair and I saw them. Something needs to be done so that this figure can be reduced. I want to be fair and honest. Because the only card - and I am ending - that this government has - I shall call it - is the moral advantage. Some people try to fill it in a decent way. They won't make it. This advantage is the only "asce" of this government. Because everything else is against her. I repeat - and I conclude - that the country has to come straight to it. It was not accidentally bankrupt and this government did not go bankrupt. This is well in mind for those with clear reasons come out and make hard criticism. Getting out of here. But first they do their self-criticism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u160	Eventually you have spent all the time. No one can stand the temptation.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u161	But I did not get any more, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u162	I didn't comment on you, Mr. Papachristopoulos. Now, Mrs Megalo-Economics from the Centro Association has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u163	Thank you, Madam President. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, today's bill is entitled "Reforming the administrative organisation of mental health services, Centres for the Experimental Experience of Rare and Complex Diseases and Other Provisions", but as usual, the "other provisions" eventually occupy the largest part of the bill and often the largest part of the debate. Indeed, in the debate before the committee responsible, I would like to say that we have had the opportunity for all our colleagues to express our objections, our concerns and sometimes our agreements. More generally, health in our country is a multi-faceted sector with many problems, which in recent years have deteriorated seriously, due to budgetary constraints. In particular, however, when we talk about mental health, I think that it is even more degraded and that it is often dealt with by the rulers as a secondary issue. However, this is a completely wrong approach. In the last eight years, the life of the average Greek citizen has been completely overthrown. Daily life is every year and more difficult, more unpleasant and more desperate. This data has drastically influenced the psychiatry of the Greeks, who suffer much more often and much more severely than in the past. This was, moreover, the conclusion of the second conference of Psych health, which was held a few months ago, and I had the opportunity to follow closely. In fact, I want to refer to a last night's event. I attended the special event organized by the Attica Region at the National School of Public Health on the theme "Smile Approach to Health and Psych health". Unfortunately, I would like to say that I was disappointed because I was the only Member from all over Parliament who attended this mini-session who had a psychiatrist and a social worker who was indeed very interesting and very informative. Unfortunately, it was just me, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to stress that only in 2015 five hundred thousand Greeks were diagnosed with depression, without calculating other mental diseases. It is a consequence of the misfortune and pressure that the Greeks receive at the time of the memorials. At the same time, since 2011, the number of unintentional hospitalizations has been growing ever since, i.e. cases that usually related to a mentally ill are asking for custody in a psychiatric clinic via a prosecutor. That is why the phenomenon of increasing the incidents of unintentional hospitalisation, the explanatory memorandum of the bill gives rise to the problem that the families of people with mental illness show less tolerance for their relatives due to a crisis. I cannot accept that. But the problem is not that the Greek family does not show the necessary patience. We all know that despite the crisis and the difficulties, the Greek family remains a support for patients, whether they are children, parents, or relatives. The cause of the problem is the collapse of the Greek economy alone. All this, therefore, shows that mental health in Greece needs much more attention than the state and that ultimately, it should be our priority to strengthen all structures. Particular care and weight should be given to all these people working in health. They should be paid on time and work in decent working conditions. Of course, we are all aware that psychiatric institutions and psychiatric clinics in hospitals are experiencing enormous deficiencies, mainly suitable trained staff, but also necessary infrastructure. Very recently, we read all of us and saw the relevant video showing that even today, in the year 2017, in civilized Greece, patients are bound to their beds. Yes, I told you, Minister, that I don't want to believe it. Last year, however, the president of the parents of autistic children had come and brought the same photographs of chained to the psychiatric hospital. That's what you're looking at. All of this, despite the European Commission's clear opposition to such practices, but also to the logic of any civilized human being that such phenomena should no longer be accepted in our country. After all this, the question which is rightly raised is as follows: Does this bill solve all or even some of these problems of mental health? Of course not, ladies and gentlemen. The bill is limited to a change in the administrative structure of mental health structures and services. The Centro Association calls for substantial initiatives to tackle the real daily problems of mental patients. Only a substantial and not simple administrative reform can really help sufferers with mental illnesses and their families, who really fight and suffer together with the patient. However, at the level of administrative reform, the draft law does not in principle oppose us. Generally speaking, it is positive to set up sectoral scientific committees to better coordinate all the institutions and structures and better monitor the overall work, the problems and ultimately the solutions needed. The most positive step, of course, is that these committees will also be a representative of the families of people with mental disturbances on board. Perhaps this practice will not work in practice, since some may be less interested or others more. Perhaps the draw is not the right way of representation. I hope, however, that this technical issue will be resolved in the future. In any case, it is the families who know better than all of us the problems from within. In fact, I am very pleased that they will have a say and a participation. On the other hand, I can only note that there is a strong concern about whether these committees can finally be set up because they consist of many members and to define all those people who are involved, there is a need for bureaucracy. I hope, Minister, that we do not drown once again in procedural matters and lose the essence. Of course, at this point I would like to stress that the Central Association is absolutely contrary to any future recruitments that may be hidden in the context of this administrative reconstruction. There, you will find us across the street if with this context you try to make new assignments from the window. We support today's effort, Minister, but you will find us against you in the event that you try to exploit the new administrative structure for bolt recruitment. I'm stressing it for the second time. Subsequent to the bill positive is the logic behind the administrative regions of the mental health sectors, since decentralisation is indeed necessary for better distribution of needs across the territory. Of course, it is also of the utmost importance that the committees to protect the rights of receivers of mental health services, since, as I said at the outset, one of the main problems still in Greece is that patients with mental illness are often treated as second-class patients and sometimes even their basic rights are violated. Now, in relation to the Rare and Comprehensive Disease Expert Centres, these cover a real need because it is particularly difficult to handle and deal with and therefore it is very important to help patients diagnosed and treated with rare diseases. In addition to any positive points in the bill, however, there are natural articles with which we fully disagree. For example, Minister, from the outset I objected to the actual equation of doctors without specialty with specialist doctors. The Minister pointed out to us that the change that is being pursued is about the wage equation and not about the acquisition of the title. However, the result is that doctors who did not receive such training are given a qualification, although they may have a great deal of experience today, which I do not doubt, but I cannot judge it. The Ministry could find another way, Minister, to solve the wage problem of these doctors and give them another economic development and the possibility of taking part in newspapers. I have participated, as I had told you at another meeting, in the relevant Greek medical conference held last year in Rhodes. Although I'm not a doctor, it was very interesting. I spoke with the representatives, but also with the interested parties themselves, and they invited me to go back to the conference in Corfu. I am convinced that the way that has been chosen is unfair to doctors in general medicine, and I can only disagree entirely with this regulation. A corresponding reflection and disagreement on our part also exists for the equation of doctors of pathologists who serve in oncological sections with doctors of pathological oncology. As far as I know, doctors pathologists who have experience in oncology are not practically identical to the oncologists, as they cannot be in charge of chemo treatments, etc. and therefore they have not ripped out all the knowledge that specialist doctors have acquired. Therefore, I do not think it is absolutely justified to equate the two groups of these doctors. Another problematic aspect of this bill is the licensing of private primary health care providers. You say that the documents and all the procedures for the authorisation of the operation to be carried out by the Medical Association will be laid down by ministerial decision. However, this procedure excludes private companies that already operate and have obtained their license in a different way, but you do not incorporate them into the process too. Only for reasons of leniency are we opposed to this regulation, since we will not be able to ask these private primary health care bodies to have the same strict treatment. Naturally, in detail about the individual articles of the bill and our individual objections and comments, we will be following the debate. I would like at this point to comment on two - three points in relation to the amendment I tabled to this bill, together with my colleague Mr Aristides Fokas. First of all, I should like to make a correction to the amendment. The first line of the explanatory statement was inadvertent: 'Article 85(1). In the present case, it is clear from the case-law of the Court that the Court of Justice has no jurisdiction to rule on the interpretation of Article 85(1) of the Treaty and Article 85(1) of the Treaty. 4 of L.3584/2007 as amended by Article 25 of L.4369/2016.’ On the substance of the amendment, I think that we all accept - and in particular you are doctors - that we must motivate all citizens to improve, evolve and eventually become better citizens and professionals. In the sense of the law brought by the current government since 2016, the civil servants who hold a doctorate are rewarded in grades. And I stress that we are talking about graduation rather than wage developments. On the contrary, for doctors who have a doctorate - and there are too many university doctors here in Parliament with a doctorate - who so far have no graduation, with the amendment we tabled with a general number of 946 and a special 56, we are proposing that it be reduced by two and not by six, as is generally the case for civil servants, the time required for the transition from the degree of curator I and curator II. I believe that this is a fair regulation, which gives the right message to society, that we must reward the effort. In addition, the Centro Association will vote in favour of this draft law at first instance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u164	Thank you, indeed, for keeping time. The last rapporteur is from Potami, Mr George Mavrotas, for 15 minutes and then we will be on the list of speakers and alternate Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u165	Last but not least, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u166	Never! No one in Parliament believes that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u167	Thank you very much, Madam President. We are used to similar bills, where the title characterizes only a small part of the bill. So today's bill we are discussing is the "Other provisions on health, reform of the administrative organisation of services of mental health and Centres for the Experimental Experience of Rare and Comprehensive Diseases". And I am not mistaken when I put 'other provisions' first in the title because the other provisions are eighty-three of the hundred articles. There are eight articles in the first chapter on the reform of the administrative organisation of mental health services, nine articles on the Rare and Comprehensive Disease Experience Centres. But let us look at them more specifically, starting with the first chapter on mental health, or rather reforming the administrative organisation of mental health, as is the most precise one. Generally the first eight articles are in the right direction of psychiatric reform, with the decommissioning and integration of receiving mental health services into decentralised social and Community structures. After all, this approach has been a one-way path for thirty years and with this bill the administrative framework of these decentralised flexible structures is in place. However, we heard in committee at the hearing of the bodies and recently read in the press and in a large Sunday newspaper, strong criticism that the way it is done is problematic and dysfunctional. And they're not wrong. He's trying to heal the pathogens of the past, but without actually touching them. It is an impracticable effort with obvious problems in implementation. It typically decentralizes decision-making, but the procedures are still dysfunctional, with committees on committees, without guaranteeing that they will not, as has happened in the past. The creation and coordination of multi-faceted schemes and their administrative support will continue to be the achilles heel of the system. In fact, some bodies called it utopian, based on previous experience, while people with experience, such as the Paedophilia Society spokesman, said that with so many committees and so many votes the ball will eventually be lost. We also think that there should be an institutional role and an interconnection of the Ministry of Education with these structures, with participation in committees for children and adolescents or, apart from participation in committees, it could be otherwise. Finally, the lack of timescales is something that characterises a number of bills, which also characterises this one, so that we lack the commitment to implementation, which we generally suffer. There is one issue, we are voting for a law and we think that by magic the problem has been solved. We do not suffer from legislation, but from implementation. To conclude, we have a step in these provisions, which concerns the administrative framework, which, in the opinion of many experts, may not be in the wrong direction, but is at the wrong time. In conclusion, with regard to this chapter, I would like to stress that an important role in decommissioning will be played, among other things, by the professional employment of receiving mental health services. There the KOSPE, the Social Partnerships of Limited Responsibility, play a key role and we should support them. In the second chapter, in Articles 9 to 17, we have the Experimental Centres for the Rare Diseases. An effort is being made to establish a framework for the Expert Centres and to participate in the relevant European networks. That's right. I only have a few comments to make on Articles 12 and 13. You're only talking about public units. We have also told the committees why private bodies, private legal entities, as centres of expertise, should be excluded. If there is knowledge and experience, why not use it? In general, this chapter is something that was really missing from Greek legislation in order to bring it into line with European events in the field of rare diseases. The remaining thirty-five, about, articles up to the statutes of dentists and therapists are some form of arrangements. In several cases they are arrangements that come back and return or refer to "photographic" incidents. I'm starting with ERC issues. Article 22 extends the status of the development of hospital doctors and primary health care. The issue of evaluation and evolution should be seen as a whole so that someone who is truly friendly and good at his job can be rewarded and motivated. That is to say, not an evaluation of 'cooperative' - 'all good' - which is essentially self-sufficient, but a substantial evaluation that improves, which heals pathogens, which mobilizes. So not only subjective criteria, but as objectively as possible. In Article 25, with the legislative improvement of the Minister, the issue of the specialty of general medicine, which relates to 30 doctors, said that it was overtaken. As far as Article 26 is concerned, first of all, we must say that primary care is clearly needed, as in recent years it has been weakened by doctors. There is a second chance for doctors from the EEAS who refused to close their doctors when they joined the ERC, but they had recourse to the courts. It should also clarify the landscape in primary health care. In other words, the government must submit the bill which it has announced to the committees on primary health care so that everyone knows the status they will face. Article 29 refers to the transfer of doctors from fertile areas. A system must be found that is transparent, open and does not benefit those who have a barbas in Koroni and patras, who, after a few months of intermittent procedures, end up in some central hospitals through a barren health center, while those who go with the cross in the hand "turning louke" for many years. As the provision is formulated, there is a risk that the barren regions will be devastated by doctors, because many will have closed down five years and will want to go to the center. One year, which has been set as mid-term, may not be enough and other procedures may be needed. But we will see that in practice. However, we need to see the whole question of the movement of doctors for barren areas. We also need to discuss the whole issue of opening up posts, open notices, mobilisation not only of the year, but also of scientific qualifications. We consider Article 30 to be a little problematic, because this is how we introduce the 'bricks' and it is wrong for young doctors who receive specific qualifications, that of the Patthological Oncology. In Article 39, entitled 'NIMTS staff finances', the evil is not that you call it NIMITS while it is NIMTS, Minister - human being, it is spelling errors - the evil is that you are not paying attention to the committees. It should be corrected.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u168	We'll fix it. There's gonna be a legislative improvement.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u169	He should come in law-engineering. In Article 42 for the authorisation of private primary health care providers, in paragraph 4, you are giving a forgiveness to the inconsistent who have not been attested to operate since 2001, i.e. for sixteen years. In Article 43 on the licensing of private clinics and the various criteria, we tabled an amendment concerning nurses, namely that nurses should have a licence to pursue a profession in order to recognize their important role. Article 45 concerns the property of the Ministry of Health which can be made available free of charge. This provision concludes that the Ministry of Health does not today provide money for rents. In addition, this provision will not be able to lease it unless it makes available its assets free of charge. We wonder if that is appropriate in a difficult economic situation. Article 48 concerns AEMY. We see a study to strengthen the responsibilities of the Anonymous Society of Health Units, so it is responsible for managing important funds, but also for recruiting staff to continue operating mental health units. It speaks of one-year contracts, and then AEMY takes over either by incubation, either by secondment or by conducting a competitive procedure by means of a call for expressions of interest. We would like only the last category to exist, namely only the invitation and the competitive process and not the 'Windows' of rhetoric and 'Business' of recruitment. The Association of Greek Psychologists had described the specific provision with AEMY as couriers for secondments, i.e. seconding civil servants to AEMY. We must not have a new ERIC here, which you yourself are complaining of is doing opaque procedures and recruitment. Also, why is there this precursor in the law, the extraordinary case, so that the President can sign the intake directly and then seven days later, approved by the Board? If the board doesn't approve, what happens in this case? We're abdicating this study. Article 49 shall apply to the ESRB. It's a little hypocritical because it changes the composition of the company's share capital and the sole shareholder becomes the Greek state. So, outside, private individuals, so that they do not have access to the patient's data, as stated in the explanatory statement. But, from where and from where, does the shareholder have access to or can he have access to personal data resulting from the activity of a company? Does the shareholder of a bank have access to the depositors' accounts? No, of course not. Article 50 concerns the establishment of a Medical Service at the Greek Center for Haemorrhage. Paragraph 4 is a little wicked. Because it says that until the Director's position has been taken - which, not least, has no timetable, as usual - this position, he says, will even be covered by a pathologist by decision of the Minister of Health. Why would that come in? Looks like you've got someone in mind. For articles relating to the statutes of the Associations - these are Articles 58 to 75 on the establishment of the Pan-Hellenic Association of Todotechnics and Articles 76 to 92 on the establishment of the Pan-Hellenic Association of Therapists - we have no objections, but there is one question why we put them in law. But if we put them into law, why should there be differentiations between them and not be in a single model, in a single Template? The last three, four minutes of my time I will talk about the amendments. Previously, in order not to be counted by the General Accounting Office of the State the cost to which the budget is charged, the respective ministerial amendments were given to Members to pass as parliamentarians, so that there was no prerequisite for the report by the General Accounting Office of the State. [[Mr DIMITRIOS KRIMASTINOS]] Now it seems that this'modore' has changed. They are normally submitted as ministerial, with a report from the General Accounting Office of the State, only in the majority of these reports are qualitatively described, without quantifying the expenditure, i.e. the figures or partly mentioned, as in Amendment No 962/70. I am starting with Amendment No 961/69, which has to do with the Director of the Appeals Authority. This changes the regime and the Minister chooses directly, rather than a three-member committee. For the sake of speed, it abolishes all the provision, which is a guarantee of sovereignty and puts brakes on party appetites regarding the appointment of the Director and the setting up of a selection committee. Now this is abolished and the Minister can choose directly. The three-member committee had an institutional character. It consisted of an assistant citizen's attorney, a counselor from ASAP and a university. Now the Administrative Director is appointed by a simple decision of the Minister for Migration Policy, following a public call of interest. It should be noted that the following paragraph on setting up a selection committee is not old. We just voted this summer. What's happened? So easily, do we go ahead with the abolition of procedures that ensure a hypocrisy of merit and go to direct choices of the Minister? And it's not the first time that this is happening. I imagine the Minister will come and explain the reason behind this amendment. Amendment No 962/70 requires some clarification. As we are talking about a bill from the Ministry of Health, it refers to the restoration of the overtime work of doctors and nurses and is aimed at health workers. And right, he's doing this thing. We've all been through hospitals that indulge in, and we've seen their working conditions there. However, paragraph 2 states general officials, not only of the Ministry of Health. L.4354/2015, to which the amendment refers, refers in general to the public, even to the OTAs. We would therefore like to know who this amendment relates to. Only the employees of the Ministry of Health? And other ministries? And if so, why is it not signed by the respective ministers? Why is there an estimate of the State General Accountancy Office for the Ministry of Health alone, the 5 million that the report says? I ask these because, you know, the overtime regime in the public sector can also relate to plastic overtime and overrun any budget. So don't put on a time bomb from the ferry. We would like to hear some explanations on this, too. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm closing, Mr. President. In conclusion, this draft law of the Ministry of Health has useful provisions, but in no case is a sample of good legislation. The multitude of fragmentary devices fatally disorientates it from its original purpose and from the title. The management of mental health issues raises doubts as to implementation. I don't want to be smart. I haven't been through health care for the specialist. It seems, however, that there is plenty of room for improvement in these matters, provided all procedures are transparent, equitable and always the best services to the citizen and not to those who are close to the ears of the respective authority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u170	Thank you, too. The Minister for Maritime Affairs and Islands Policy, Mr Kourublis, has the floor for supporting the amendment on the management of resources of the Public Port Authority.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u171	For two minutes, Mr. President. Thank you. Mr President, with L.4389 and Article 127(1), the creation of a service of the L.A., the Public Port Authority, has been institutionalised. This serves the need to allow the State, as part of the privatisation of the port of Piraeus and Thessaloniki, not to confer powers of a public nature, such as environmental issues, labour relations issues, on the private sector. This principle was set up as an independent and independent authority, but a department under the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy. There was one question, however, concerning the adaptation of this body to public accounting rules. The amendment, therefore, of Article 129(3), is intended to adapt these provisions to the public account and the account for the operating costs of that service is converted from a special account to a bank account. That is the amendment and I ask the House to approve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u172	Thank you, too. Mrs Karasarlidou, Member of the SYRIZA, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u173	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, the draft legislation we are debating today must be seen as a necessary complement to the initiative that we took last year for a change in the health sector. Despite the harmful policies implemented by previous governments and the unfavourable financial environment, the government's given and registered support in this very sensitive area continues. The main purpose of the bill is to reform the administrative organisation of mental health services by decentralising, ensuring the functionality of the new administrative structure, transparent and democratic administration, participation and representativeness of all involved, and in particular to safeguard the rights of patients. I am therefore pleased that, in the bill we are debating today, I see the idea of decentralisation now taking flesh and bone. The current reform seeks to reorganise with new, better terms the mental health services administration system, mainly for the benefit of patients, their families, caregivers and all professionals in mental health. Regionally created intermediate management bodies, between the Psychiatric Health Committees and the Psychiatric Health Directorate, will now be able to examine the advice of local committees and decide directly and effectively, without being fully bound by the central management in a timely and endless process. In addition, the regional committees for the protection of patients' rights will be able to examine complaints, carry out direct checks, consult locally, so that no individual requests remain uncontrollable and no patient alone. This bill confirms our attempt to change the example of health. In the past two years, serious efforts have been made to reverse the situation in previous years, i.e. to curb the infrastructures of the social state through deterioration, declining, under-financing of total health expenditure implemented by the previous governments. We respond with a comprehensive plan for recruitment to hospitals, primary health care structures and over ten thousand doctors and the rest of the staff, while ensuring the access of two and a half million unsafe citizens to health care, according to official data, 20% of the population was excluded from nursing and medical care. We also respond with the increase in medical examinations covered by the EEAS, as did, for example, with digital mammography and health support programmes for refugees and migrants, as well as with children's vaccinations. Our differences with previous policies, indeed, are great. For us, the patient is not a customer, he is not a consumer, but he is a citizen with rights. And there are some things that we do not negotiate. One of these is health as a public good, available to every citizen of this country. Every aspect of this law, therefore, is consistent in the direction of prevention, reintegration and understanding. By car decentralisation, we recognise that the role of the modern state that we are building is not to manage and decide for everything. The role of the State is to supervise the proper functioning of its services at the level of its territory, to share resources, to create infrastructure and to allow micro- communities to decide on the solutions to their problems. We prefer the easy urges of counter-population to draw up difficult projects, but in our view they are in the right direction. Decentralisation, the transfer of decisive administrative powers to local bodies must be our political strategy not only in the field of mental health, but in general, a general transition strategy in a new political and economic context. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u174	Thank you, too. Mr Papakostas has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u175	Thank you very much, Mr President. As Parliament does not move and operate, it does not legislate in the interpretation of political developments, I would like to raise two - three issues, Mr President, which do not relate to this draft law, but are within the competence of our Parliament. The first is the redemption operation of the MPs, the country's civil servants and the fact that the tax privileges of the MPs are being discussed and at the top of the forefather, within or outside the introductory part. I would ask the government very much - and I have tabled a question on this - to take action immediately so that Members can stop and, in any case, their report to society, as if they were not required. The Greek Parliament, the President of the Parliament, takes the initiative to take the appropriate steps to stop the shaping of the political staff of the country. The MPs are next to society. We have no objections and we are always receptive to contributing to the burdens, like all Greek citizens, let alone we who are representatives of the nation and of the people. In any case, parliamentarianism must be protected from ourselves if we do not want to be dispersed. So let the political initiative be taken on the part of the President of Parliament, but also the legislative side of the government, so that this issue can finally be resolved for the benefit of Parliament's benefit. The second is the evaluation, Mr President. Listen, ladies and gentlemen of the government, the assessment, but whatever it is, does not cover the Greek people. The evaluation must be carried out, but it must be carried out, as must be done, so that the Greek economy does not pay for the attempts of a political conclusion of evaluation, as it may be, at excessive costs and that there is a greater problem than what we are calling for. The third has to do with the Ministry of Health, with the decision of the S.H.E.L. for hospital administrators. It cannot be challenged by the Ministry of Health to ignore the legality and violate this legality in a clear way. The decision of the Council of State in relation to the hospital governors was a powerful slap - in the cheeks of the government, and in particular the political leadership of the Ministry of Health. And what I have to say to the Greek Parliament is that, at the moment, a dismissal of hospital governors is being prepared, who, in the view of the Ministry of Health's political leadership, at this time we are discussing, are not considered to be ideologically ideological to the present government. I would therefore say that, Mr Minister, and if you would like to reply to us on that. There's evidence.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u176	What evidence is there, Mrs. Ironopoulou? Tell us.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u177	At the moment, Minister, the "Juneo" Hospital is a resurrection.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u178	Why is "Juneo" a resurrection?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u179	Because he's preparing to replace his command. I'll give you the clue, investigate it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u180	There has been a crisis and an assessment.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u181	Please, Minister, you will answer!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u182	Please check your sources...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u183	We'll see whose evidence...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u184	...and do not act irresponsibly as they say!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u185	If you consider the workers irresponsible, if the workers concerned and who know the problem from the inside are irresponsible, please address them. Do you want to apologize for being irresponsible? It's your thing. However, I am telling you an issue which I consider to be serious following the decision of the S.H.E. Now, I would like to make some additional points, because I, like our rapporteur and all my colleagues, have been given an exhaustive place in the committee responsible for preparing the draft legislative resolution. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a few additional points, because I have heard and pre-empted a member of the government majority, on the serious issues of mental health. The words are feathers. But the deeds remain. I have heard you say that in the past two years the mental health system, etc. has been degraded. Listen: First element: Your draft law, what you brought us, was placed in a 10-day consultation on May 13, 2016. Ten months later it is tabled and discussed in the House. When a bill, which you define as a reform - which is not - when a bill on mental health, which you define as sensitive, bring it after ten months, I understand the extent and extent of your sensitivity, and especially about mental health! The additional point is: in this draft law you are pressing on the existing structure, which I have had the honour of organising. You're pressing on the rights that for the first time I went down for the mentally ill. And what are you doing? You do not facilitate the conditions necessary to have a human and decent health policy, which is four: the prevention, secondary care of mental health, the mental rehabilitation centres and the creation of new structures. You do not do these in terms of the quality of the services provided. See, and see, the number that they occupy in the hundred articles together with the amendments to the draft law that you call as reform. Open the dictionary to see what "reformation" means and if you think it's a reform what you bring, then let me know which dictionary you're reading.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u186	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u187	Even better. Worse for mental health recipients. Do you know what is predicted here if you read it well? Because, you know, sometimes we don't read well. I have read it well, and I know of the subject, that the draft law under discussion provides for additional committees to be set up, without any provision of secretarial support. Writing, that is. It provides, essentially, parallel levels of supposedly support mental health. But the bodies that we have called for have said that they believe their operation is impossible. When, then, the bodies directly involved say that their function is impossible, do you in the absence of whom you legislate? And on what occasion do you legislate, without the conditions I mentioned earlier? So it is incomplete to regulate you. We're not against it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I would like two more minutes, please. I think it is a great scandal - and I am expressing my condolences, because the other things our rapporteur has said - the issue of AEMY. It's a provocative arrangement. Because while upgrading is positive, what are you doing? You're ruining the arrangement, canceling the arrangement by not getting in, not being subject to the cost-precautionary control. And further - I give you another element about why I call it scandal - the freedom to serve create a dependent group, which also creates additional customer relations. I come to the provision of Article 26. What are you doing? You are trying to solve a problem, to which we are not basically negative, but you are actually creating a problem, because we have three-speed doctors. Your bill is in a few words rousphetological on these issues, although it has positive aspects on some points, with which we shall agree and which our rapporteur will mention in the process of voting on the draft law. With the rushphetological arrangements you bring to solve issues, you create many-speed doctors and greater problems than you are asked to solve. I would now like to tell you this: in some of the amendments we are positive, some of which are not. You are bringing an amendment to the calculation of pensions. Let us not forget that you have delayed amendments. Don't you know your deadlines? For Christ's sake! You are therefore bringing an amendment to the calculation of pensions. With what confidence, Mr President and gentlemen of the government, and I shall close with this - do you want us to vote in favour of an amendment to the pension calculation, when new uncertainties arise every day, new uncertainties which make a fool of the country? The former Minister of State, Mr Katrugalos, is walking around and talking about insurance reform. I'm hanging up with this, Mr. President. It has been ten months for your Government to understand that the insurance law, at least in respect of one piece, is not being implemented. You are correcting today the wrong definition of how the adjustment of pension remuneration by 2020 will be based on the change in ELSTAT's average consumer price index, while from 2021 the wage change index will prevail. I should like to close by a question: if, for what you are bringing today's vote, you have carried out the necessary checks to enable them to be implemented, implemented, applied or shortly, we will be here again to vote again or to vote for what you have voted on. Thank you very much, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u188	Thank you, too. Mrs Christophilopoulou, Member of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u189	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is being discussed, while outside there are strikes by doctors, who have reached their limits, a strike for workers in public hospitals, WTO, which is not very much liked by the Ministry's leadership, but - what should we do? - these are employee representatives, you will have to cohabit with them and with what they denounce. And if one asks our fellow citizens, who have to get into public hospitals for alpha or beta, he will understand that while the situation is getting worse every day, there is an honor for the Greeks who go to save the situation. Ladies and gentlemen of the "first time left along with the people's right", have you realised that hospitals live mainly because of donations? Only in 2016 we had a thousand two hundred donations. In 2017, the host is big. We will be able to have "Everyone together" and so that hospitals can function instantly.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u190	That's the Socialist International.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u191	Take it easy. You should listen.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u192	I'm calm. That's what you socialists say.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u193	You should listen. But you can't hear it. Thirty - six thousand people have submitted papers on the proclamation of the CSCE of six hundred sixteen persons for the National Health System, thirty - six thousand people, doctors, nurses. At the same time you're hiring through OAED. Be careful, we support social work. We started it, you continue it. It is not a conflict between us that social work in itself is beneficial. But is it or is it not the hospitals who are gratuitously merciful of working, which is temporary, and above all people who, Minister, at least, have seen the lights of publicity and as long as we can be informed, are they not able to carry out the support work of our hospitals, that is to say, those people who are, of course, in support positions rather than in positions of medical and nursing staff? However, they too should be appropriate and be able to offer. Otherwise, from the socially beneficial jobs, these people who are unemployed may be given opportunities outside the national health system. So we are also going to the other public-government-government-government-government-government-government-government-government-government-government-government-government-government-government-government-governing-government-governing-governing-governing-governing-governing-government-governing-governing-governing-governing-governing-government-government-government-government-government-government-government-governing-government-government-government-government-government-government-government-government-government-government-government-government-government-gaging-grants. He needs a little thought, he needs to be relocated, he needs a setup and an organization. The only thing he doesn't want to do is gobble and it's the only thing we hear about health. Now, with regard to the draft legislation tabled and under discussion, as our rapporteur, Mr Gregorakos, told you, in most of the arrangements you bring - since this is a follow-up to the history of mental health reform - we will agree. However, this bill and its vast majority find provisions from here and there, which are either photographic, rousphetological or inadequate. I'm fasting. I would like to say that we, through Mr Gregorakou, who is our rapporteur, have also tabled concrete proposals to you so that we do not only speak of opposition, but also of making proposals. For example, for the layout of the EDPS. You don't want to accept them. We can't do that. Close the eye on a class of doctors, without solving the problem, without taking a clear position and, of course, we cannot vote on this article. Another rhysphetological situation: One night, ladies and gentlemen, the National School of Public Health is converted into an IEO. How's that gonna happen? We also agreed that in our law we had a provision for a course which was clear, a course compatible with the provisions on higher education. The National School of Public Health cannot be converted into an EHS on one night. You understand that this is not only rousphetological and photographic, but it's a scandal. It's a scandal! Also, doctors' movements: We have voted for you settings as well for motives. They used to be. You brought other provisions for incentives so that we can serve remote health services. We have said yes to most of what you have brought. What are you bringing now? Move someone from a small health center, a small hospital, who will be able to go to the “Evangelism” or to another hospital flagship of the National Health System. Is this a worthyness or is it 'close the eye'? Is this an incentive, or is this being circumvented by any sense of democracy in public health? Finally, as far as AEMY is concerned. We had at first voted against AEMY. It was considered a solution to operate the Santorini Hospital. The Santorini Hospital has five doctors from the twenty-one planned, when you took off the Prime Minister and brought him to make grand declarations that he is personally committed - of course, we have seen his commitments, such as the Thessaloniki Programme, the tenth third pensions, no one believes them anymore - that they will be fully covered. And all management has been covered and is left by doctors at the Santorini Hospital and cannot function and can't offer. Of course, I must tell you that, with the situation in the administration of hospitals, things are a little complicated, because the Council of State, ladies and gentlemen, has thrown a ax on the beheading of the governors you did in 2015. And when the S.H.E.'s decision came out, the "first time left" government, which respected the institutions and every word of the Constitution, smuggled the decision and made that there was nothing to do with it, and no point at all, as an argument was that ten to fifteen governors were left by the old, because - says - they were evaluated. The ones you're going to decapitate now? And it is not just "Juneo", Minister, answer the Greek Parliament. Are administrative acts ready and waiting for the General Accounting Office of the State to go up to “DIAGY”? What are they waiting for? What administrative situation? What unfinishedness are they waiting to decapitate the remaining ones to play your game? And it is not just the "Juneo" that is rebellious indeed, because I have in my hands a memo from the workers. You have it yourself. There were many hours waiting in your office for the workers. You kept the commander, today you want to decapitate him. It's all set. Is it random? I don't think so. Because the whole situation is consistent, I repeat, with the large number of provisions contained in this bill, and it is the main reason why we voted against it, while voting, as I have said, most of the provisions, as our rapporteur has said. So I think that these are the essential issues we should be discussing. In conclusion, I will say that it has been over two years and a health bill, which is really good, has not come. Individuals of mental health said we were voting on it. We have voted for some specific points. Where's the primary school? Where's the reorganisation of the ESS? Where are those big words? Did you bring a bill station for the restructuring of the ESS that we created and need restructuring today? Everyone says so, so do you. Nothing. Rochetology and curiosity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u194	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u195	Mr President, I would like to give an answer for ten seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u196	The Deputy Minister, Mr. Paulakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u197	Because this is the second time it is heard, I feel the need to clarify something: the 15 governors' term of office has expired and when their term of office ends, the reopening of invitations to tender has expired. Do not create a pogrom and anything. I repeat a few things to hear from the Greek people once again, because a blurred picture is being created: Our Government is the first government in the history of the Greek state after the Remulsion, which made a genuine assessment of governors, a double assessment in December 2015 by the government of the health regions and a committee described by your own law and decided that a large part of it is going away and put some people in place. The Council of State takes the view that they are illegal because of poor justification - it says - after a double assessment, which has never been carried out and which has never been removed by the governors, who have reiterated that they have been designated by an alphabetical list where Mr Georgiadis had come up with a quota of 4-2-1. Let each one take his own conclusions.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u198	Mr President, I would like the floor for half a minute to answer...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u199	There is no procedure, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u200	Mrs Christophilopoulou, just ask for the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u201	Mr. President, I'm showing up...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u202	Ask for the floor on personal grounds, or Mr. Loverdos will speak...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u203	I appear to lie in plenary. Wait a minute. Is it so hard? To restore the truth!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u204	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u205	There's no staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u206	You're very welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u207	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u208	Mr. Loverde, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u209	In the early '15s...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u210	You're welcome. This is not a personal matter, Mrs Christophilopoulou. What's the staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u211	I didn't come here to lie.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u212	What's the staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u213	Whatever she lied about.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u214	Okay. I'll give you the floor for a minute, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u215	It was heard twice by another speaker, which is why I answered.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u216	So I, Minister, would like to clarify this. To listen to the Greek people who have heard so much propaganda, I would like to say this.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u217	What's the staff, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u218	Then I'll talk again.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u219	They'll all talk again. That's not how it works.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u220	The first things...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u221	Mrs Christophilopoulou, I would ask you to limit yourself to the staff, which is related to the word'lie', to what I understand. Just stay on that and tell your opinion. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u222	It is a lie, therefore, that we lie and that it was the first government to bring an assessment, because the first things they did were that they voted against the previous government's own law on evaluation. They denounced him here in the House, took their ears from the troika, that is, the institutions, and then what did they do? They were reinstated, forced by the troika, the law, and they did the procedures as they had done before, Mr President. We are called liars by a government, who only knows lies and propaganda. That's all.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u223	Mr President, just one word.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u224	Minister, I will give you the floor to answer for a moment, but there will be no further debate on this matter. Close, don't start with me personally.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u225	Minister, I would like to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u226	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u227	Just a word. I repeat: The choice of the previous governors we assessed - and that was why we first abolished the previous procedure - was that it was made from a list in alphabetical order.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u228	You voted again later.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u229	It was prompted by an 'artificial' - to say so - to the institutions that 'hey, here they go to set up a party state', as the previous were the 'lemonds' of coercion, which no more than fifteen had a degree, such as in Grevena or right and left. Let me not begin by describing the evaluation they had done. This entered into the agreement after demand and we carried out the evaluation. Of course, the evaluation has led to this result. He doesn't like it. We are not building a party state, but we are not going to support all the mechanisms that the two major parties had set up for thirty years. Let everyone understand that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u230	Mr President, I would like to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u231	Proceedings? Mr. Manier, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u232	Mr President, if every time the word 'frauds' in the House is spoken, we will not talk about anything else. The aim of my speech is to give the time to get rid of the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u233	So, Mr President, what is said is a lie!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u234	What did you say?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u235	We all admit that what is said in Parliament is a lie.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u236	Oh, no. Please! Mrs Christophilopoulou called for the floor to answer that she lied and not to answer that politically lied, namely parties, etc. That is why I gave her the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u237	The parties don't lie!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u238	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u239	You're welcome, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u240	There was a debate this morning with Mrs Christophilopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u241	You have 12 minutes, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u242	We wanted to have an image of the procedures. I want my colleagues to know, especially Mr Manius, who is protesting...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u243	What's he talking about? What's this now?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u244	No, before I took the floor, partner. You won't take my time off of it. It's a procedure that I'm trying to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u245	Oh, for other than that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u246	I want you to inform the House of what all the parties have agreed on, that the meeting will go until the time it goes. There will be no restrictions on you to tell us: 'no dentology, not tritology, that the Minister does not speak.' We'll all talk and let's get this over with too late.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u247	Of course, that is not the case. Mr. Loverdo, that's not the point.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u248	And in that sense, because I saw Mr Petropoulos, it would be good for the ministers, who have serious amendments to speak before talking or give you an image.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u249	You have a turn to talk now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u250	If it is possible to speak now, because it has many amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u251	To speak now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u252	It is the best thing for the parliamentary procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u253	Good. The State Secretary for Labour, Mr Petropoulos, wants to formulate some legislative improvements. Please, Mr. Petersburg, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u254	I have put forward legislative improvements, Mr President, because the Court of Auditors' opinion was that the relevant wording should be made in the provision which they introduced to the vote, that it should refer to an increase rather than to the adjustment of pensions on the basis of the rate resulting from the adoption of the common ministerial decision provided for in the Act.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u255	Is that an intervention to the amendment?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u256	It's a legal improvement.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u257	What article?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u258	In the articles referred to in the coefficient for the calculation of the pension remuneration. It's Article 97. Legislative improvements also concern issues relating to the payment of contributions to the prostitutional benefits in which they had been regulated as working conditions. The proposed amendments therefore also change the title. It is added under the heading of the bill that it relates to arrangements for insurance n.4387/2016. There must be this wording. Both sides are in place to ensure that insurance arrangements are distinct from the legal structure of the relevant amendment. At your disposal for any other reference. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u259	Thank you, too. Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u260	Ladies and gentlemen, Evagoras Palikalidis was kidnapped nineteen years ago yesterday. We have to remember him. It is a bright case, a bright example of a new fighter who fought for his country, fought for Hellenism and received the treatment he received: he was hanged in his nineteen years. As today, my colleague Mitafidis informed me, the first train with about two and a half thousand Jews in Thessaloniki left for Auschwitz. Some colleagues from SYRIZA have tabled an amendment. I think it's worth seeing her with care. We have not had time to process it, but it is worth seeing it carefully. However, we will be talking about the amendments in seconds and later this afternoon. Mr Secretary of State for Health, I am not watching the health sector very closely because of my general parliamentary obligations. But with my experience and information, which I draw from very special colleagues, such as Mr Leonidas Gregorakos, who also has political and, above all, medical experience, because this counts in life, but also from Mrs Christophilopoulou, I am following the situation in the health sector. I am also being informed of the movement of workers in the health sector by the media and I see the sharp reactions. What the workers are telling you for now, for 2016, for your 2017, namely, for years of your own governance, is in line with the finding that the health situation is worse than ever though you in the House are talking at a general and abstract level over the problems and there you are making suggestions that you are baptizing them on the left or want them to be on the left. You're doing your ideological part here, but you're entitled to that. It is a content that you, as Minister for Health, are giving to foreign health issues by the fact that it prevails in the day-to-day life of the operation of this critical area. The workers are protesting. You're pre-collecting them. If I made a comparison of what I've suffered, what you're told is funny. However, you have no tolerance to criticism, and even as the head of the ministry as a whole, you speak very badly of them. But mobilization is an indicator that what you say here, you say it and you hear it yourself. People who work in space don't say the same thing. I have no possibility, nor time here, of making an extensive reference to many symptoms of pathology in the health field on your days. But I have a very specific and tangible element. And it's specific and tangible because it's numerical. There is no doubt about it. When I took over in September 2010, I found four thousand recruits of nurses pending. Normal nurses, not OAED. If I followed the Ministry's bureaucracy, Minister, I wanted about a year and a half to check legality. I took initiatives, personally intervened and in the most intense way, and by December I had appointed them all. The reactions you caused in the health field did not allow this to become socially visible. The four thousand of these people know it. From what I understand from Mr Gregorakos and Mrs Christophilopoulou, all these recruitments which you, Mr Papadopoulos, have mentioned here - I have asked you out of the microphone if that is the case - are alternative doctors who have always been the workers through the OAED for a short time and without the experience and ages I have heard from my two colleagues before. If that's true, you're bragging. And it is right that Mrs Christodoulopoulos said that we have no objection to the OAS programmes. We've worked it out, too. We have established them, after all. But that is another thing to say that you are equiping the health space with the necessary staff and that we do not have time to listen to your numbers - thousands, every speech and a few thousand - which is only in your minds. Finally, the only given for the critical area of nurses, which is most critical, Mr Papadopoulos, from the area of doctors to all systems, is an exception...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u261	We'll give details.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u262	Here was my last generous act. And it's been seven years, retired, troubled, for an ailing area. I, of course, have, in this regard, made nurses subject to the rules of unhealthy professions. It wasn't subject to decades ago. Well, they didn't appreciate that, but they did. And it is time to compare, which is painful for you. Secondly - I did not intend to mention it, but I heard it from Mr Gregorakos and asked, and then I heard Mrs Christodoulopoulos' debate with the Deputy Minister - I would like to say this: You are not telling me, and you have a decision on the issue of Onasios. which annuls your decisions. It is not important to say that there is a lack of reason. ‘Lack of reasons’ means that the act is arbitrary. Are you the ones who kept every word and every letter of the Constitution, speech of the Prime Minister, here, February 2015? You guys haven't left anything on your feet. Even for Onasio, for the post of two members of the board of directors, they annul you decisions. You have been annulled for the governors, for inadequate reasons, and you are contemplating that for the first time there has been such a thorough assessment. And the court tells you that your statement of reasons are inadequate, that is, that there has been no evaluation. And there's more coming. The school units are coming, which is a huge problem, with huge economic consequences. The Pappa law is coming. It's over. Every day we also read of a decision by the Council of State setting your legislations out. Even for Onassis, my colleague speaks of some outrageous incomes coming out of there, three hundred grand, etc. There are supposed to be adjustments. We found them at a much higher level and made adjustments. And you have to do it yourself. And instead of doing this, you're changing the boards. I heard something he said, and I think he'll develop it in his dentistry. Whether it's fit or not, you know that. The opposition is judging. However, there are also anti-constitutional acts of the arbitrary, authoritarian, nationalist administration SYRIZA - ANEL. Mr. Petropoulos is gone. I heard him. Ladies and gentlemen, have you seen the amendment? It is an amendment which, firstly, is too great. Of course, to be fair, it was tabled to the Standing Committee and the National Representation knows it. He wasn't surprised. It is, however, a matter that concerns every day with the inconsistency of the government which has defined a way of calculating new pensions. Tens of thousands of people are waiting on the basis of a formula, which ELSTAT did not define, for he was waiting for it to be determined. And there's this pylostylind for who's to blame. And it turned out that months after the law was passed, they addressed ELSTAT. We don't care. People know that. There's something else we care about. When the legislator introduces new ones, as far as the regulation is concerned, he shall ensure, either by preparing the regulatory framework of his own, either by contacting other authorities or by taking responsibility in his own law, that the calculations are made. In 3863/2010, the issues of the definition of pensions, of their redefinition, were regulated by specific provisions. And I tabled on Friday that we had a debate on insurance, two provisions, five and 11. The current government, in May for a major change, had not made sure to see its implementation. And now the pensioner's paying for this. And they even bring changes today, technically they say. We will see them so that we can express an opinion. However, ladies and gentlemen, it is a lie that has been heard in this Chamber, that the insurance has been cut off by the previous governments by 50% and now, uh, they are doing something too. Ours, for my day, intervention in the insurance sector, which had the first intervention and pensions of EUR 3 000, EUR 3,500, meant an average reduction of 12% in the New Democracy. The giant cut in the insurance that has ever been done is the one now, 20% at one. And I told Mr Petropoulos to tell his Minister that we will submit in the next few weeks as a Democratic Compact, an up-to-date question with all the tables about every detailed arrangement or arrangement that led to a contraction. I come to the subject of the day. The current situation, ladies and gentlemen, is unfortunately not pleasantly fuelled every day. I am not talking about education - I do not have time - to reduce importers. I have no objection to that. But does it have to be two months before the exams? To go for next year. I don't have time. But I have time for one truth and I have an obligation to be all societies of this truth. We were underestimated by the choices of Varoufakis - Tsipras in 2015. It was supposed that this government, after the elections, had another orientation. Ladies and gentlemen, did you hear about increasing the demands of the Greek banks to the Bank of Greece and the European Central Bank to increase the funding from the ELA? Did you hear that? We read for 300 million. I will testify this afternoon - I have not prepared him, I am trying to find it from the Bank of Greece - the course of ELA, namely, liquidity in our banking system, from summer 2014 until today. Summer of 2014, zero. Our banks didn't have the slightest need. December 2014 - First vote on the President of the Republic - something was held on ELA. January 2015, 5 billion. Varoufakis in February 2015, with two meetings of the competent bodies, a course of 80 billion thus reached in June 2015 with the capital controls. And now where are we talking? High again, 45 to 50! The "Varoufakia" continues with the "Tsakalotia". The Prime Minister is always present in both these periods. Don't tell me that these are issues that will go over our head and mind over our hands that we'll have to vote on. Don't tell me that's a painless thing. The mobility of banks, the possibility of liquidity in the market is the alpha and the omega of the economy. Let us not forget that today, ladies and gentlemen, this money is not going to finance businesses. For the lending of the state, they go. The market doesn't see them. But these are the needs. These needs, ladies and gentlemen, were created by the SYRIZA and ANEL government. And you, ladies and gentlemen, go out to the channels in the morning and say that we resist and discuss a coffee shop in international politics. What cafeteria, while people get bored there? They don't play anymore. They don't do TV. They're commenting and laughing. The debates you are having on European relations and on other things are coffee debates while the cafeteria is bored. And, indeed, your Prime Minister speaks of the Europe of many choices. Of course, it speaks of the Europe of many political choices, because your choice is that the country should go backwards. However, this and all of this indulgence on nothing does not mean that we are going through these issues here without appraising, evaluating and calculating them. The situation with ELA, with the liquidity in the market, i.e. with the adequacy of the banks, is tragic and led us there since the summer of 2014, when things were fine in terms of liquidity, since January 2015 Varoufakis, Tsakalotos and Tsipras. Ladies and gentlemen, these issues do not end with a speech in the House. These issues will come here. And they'll come the most serious way! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u263	Ilias Panagiotaros, Member of the Golden Dawn, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u264	Thank you, Mr President. To be heard in this Hall by those who ruled this place for more than forty consecutive years that they are affected when someone calls them or thinks they are called "fakes" and "throwers", is rather a joke. And I would like to comment on this bill, which is about mental health, that you have been missed, Mr Minister, by a special reference, some amendment, a provision for Mr Katrugalos, on what he said the other day, because it is probably a need for a psychiatric opinion. I would also like to say - although our special speaker, Mr Aivatidis, has said so - about your refusal - to participate in the constitutional obligation of parliamentary control. And more recently, of course, you have been followed by Mr Famelos, who refuses to answer the Golden Dawn and says of constitutional order laws and some other such crap and flammations. And I am thinking of the popular expression "the fly of Ko... and... the whole world." All of a sudden, there were some of them. And we say this in order for the thousands of our fellow citizens, who are addressing the Golden Dawn daily, to know about the huge problems facing public health, about the walls in front of them when they go to be insured, whether in IKA or in the OAU - all of which is now under one cover - where as Greeks, above all, they have to be cashier in order to do anything in public hospitals, as opposed to the hundreds of thousands of illegal immigrants, who receive benefits from decrees, laws, articles, Ministerial Decisions, where they circumvent all of this for which the Greek citizen is agonizing every day and can use public health free. And the racism that we see is the only racism that exists in our country. And it's against the Greek citizen. And we experience it every day, as in the case of little Myrtus, whose life was destroyed by an anthropomorphic monster in Paros a few years ago, and you finish it, where you don't in any way make it easier for her mother to fight, strive to make this injured life a little better. You see, little Myrtoo wasn't Mrs. Kuneva, where you even gave her home. We have heard and seen from the 'from the outset' that it has hundreds of thousands of euros in its bank account from various donations. The little Myrtoo was a Greek woman. A Pakistani man tried to rape her, smashed her face, destroyed her, and yet you don't even make a simple ministerial decision - that's all she wants - to make her life easier. Two and a half years now, gentlemen of SYRIZA and of the Independent Greeks, you are ruling this place and you no longer have any excuse for the bad texts and the health sector where you are headed by this ministry. You don't have any lightning. We saw what's going on in a hospital - now it's being discussed between serious and funny, but it's probably tragic, it's not embarrassing - where a hairdresser performs the debts of a nurse. Irrelevant to the subject! Yeah, everyone wants work, but if anything else don't completely humiliate public health. For two and a half years now, you have not been able to draw up a single procurement system, which is very simple, which you were supposed to have had in your programme and which you had studied, in order to correct the bad texts, where the others for about forty years had created a customer relationship between the Ministry of State and various suppliers. On the substance of this bill, you are completing the abolition of public psychiatric care, and even in the middle of memoranda, where the cases of fellow citizens are growing geometrically, who are seeking to resolve the various issues of mental health, to which you have taken them because of the memoranda. We see a vertical, geometric increase in psychiatric cases. Some Xanax-type drugs now people take off like gums to understand what's going on in Greek society. And you come now, with a purely rosphetological, in its overwhelming majority, a bill to tell us that you will correct some bad texts. All you're going to do is shut down the already operating psychiatric hospitals, whatever they are. They're going to suit you, because they're going to be ready, tamma, to make them a refugee reception center. All the rumors say that this is what you want to do in Valtech at some point, to leave the few dozens of inmates who are there, so that you can put your new, future voters inside. So this is a Rusphetan bill. We see it every day. We read, see and hear the suspicious role of these NGOs, who, in the midst of a crisis, receive huge amounts, dozens, hundreds of millions of euros, without anyone knowing what, where, when. And the worst of all is that we see that in many of them they have a direct relationship either with SYRIZA MPs, SYRIZA officials, or some others who have invested in misery and the suffering of all those who come from all over the Earth in Greece, the last country with an open borders, when all of Europe closes its borders and tries to defend itself against this rag. Only by MATs, Mr Ministers of SYRIZA, now go to your areas of responsibility, MATs which protect you from those who until recently deposited you, because you had promised everything and made it completely opposite, even to your own. You are exactly the same as your predecessors, whom you are bailing and blaming every day. You're no different to anything at all. Finally, I would like to say a word: in order to solve all the problems relating to public health, there must also be a strong, firm insurance system. When there is the huge demographic problem, when the population of our country is falling rapidly, we can see how soon either the new insurance, which you have brought or other insurance that you will be bringing, will be able to resolve this problem when there are no insured persons. Because you never believe that the hundreds of thousands of illegal immigrants who are trying to legitimise and who one day, as we have said, will be the ones who will ever pay you a contribution. Whatever you do, you are involved in a vicious cycle of destruction and dismantling everything in Greek health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u265	The speaker of the Communist Party of Greece has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u266	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the main prerequisite for competitiveness and recovery of the profitability of business groups is the promotion of reactionary changes in critical social areas, such as health, on the basis of the OECD strategic guidelines, of the Europe 2020 strategy. In order to implement, however, an appropriate favourable investment environment is needed for business groups, the necessary legislative, institutional framework for all levels of health. The European Union staff’s confession that mental health problems are a source of loss of productivity and increasing trend in retirement reveals the substance of the objec­tives of the Government for mental health, which is served by the provisions of this draft law on administrative reform of mental health services. On the one hand, we have a background and an extension of their freight function and a strengthening of business activity in the health sector and on the other hand, with the lowest possible cost for the capital and its state, to ensure the necessary level of health as a condition for the reproduction of the labour force. The Government accepts the policy of privatisation, the closure of public special psychiatric hospitals and the fragmentation of mental health structures, as did previous governments, with the so-called psychiatric reform, leading to the exclusion of sufferers from prevention, treatment and rehabilitation. This explains why for more than fifteen years SYRIZA supported "SYRIZA", which was the epitome of the European Union in mental health, basing itself on the good of individuals, NGOs, associations of patients and relatives, hostels and boarding houses of individuals with state money, falling beds, strengthening scientific research by individuals, assigning primary health care to individuals with private mental health centers. That's why he failed. It is admitted, moreover, by the European Union's own reports on the evaluation of ‘SYCHARGE’. The JRC had then disagreed and resisted the closure of public hospitals. Overall, there is a shortage of structures and psychiatric clinics across the country. Today it is almost just private structures, expensive and controversial. In Crete there is only the university hospital, while structures in Lasithi, Chania, Rethymnon are unable to serve daily the increasing needs, since mental health is becoming more and more important. With regard to the Paediatric Hospital in Heraklion, which is the only one in the southern Aegean, while you promised the workers, who have been working for three years now, that their pre-service will be mobilised, you are now hanging them. Psychodiagnostics, however, gradually close, while they are considered necessary. In Chania, at the psychiatric clinic of the General Hospital of Chania, "Agios Georgios" there are huge gaps in medical, nursing staff. Inaccuracy of safety personnel shall be recorded, absence of a branch of acute incidents due to significant staff deficiencies, inappropriateness of the clinical building. Instead of solving years of problems, your bill in practice guarantees the administrative, institutional role of entrepreneurs and NGOs. In particular, in paedophiliac services, it strengthens the private business activity and the reciprocity of these services from public sector units. The proposed administrative organisation of mental health services and the bodies recommended will be the new instruments for the implementation of reactionary changes in mental health on the pretext of democracy in the functioning of regional sectoral committees and the participation of recipients of health services, family associations with mental disorders and local administration. The role of the private sector is upgraded by participation in sectoral scientific committees. Converts scientists to a lever for the promotion of capitalist restructuring in the field of mental health, to be exploited in study, scientific support and practical implementation of the government's policy. In this respect, therefore, the Communist Party of Greece does not blame the Government for incompetence and incompetence or lack of planning as the rest say, for covering the common strategic conclusion or for who promotes anti-population policy more effectively. For the JRC health is a social commodity and not a commodity. The structures of mental health must be an element of a uniform, free state health and welfare system, adequately financed by the state budget, with the abolition of all business activities, all-principally developed at all levels, and especially at primary health care, with permanent staff with full-time and full-time employment without flexible labour relations. Mr President, with regard to the two amendments tabled by the Minister of Labour, I would like to say: Article 94; that is, the amendment, which has been turned into Article 94, on the arrangements for matters relating to OSCE registers, we are voting against it. On the pretext of restoring unemployment - as stated in the explanatory statement - the possibility of designing and implementing employment programmes is widened. It is, in fact, a sum of billions which have been transferred to the employer's pockets in the name of creating new jobs. If there is an account, we will see that there have been no jobs but a recycling of this. It must also be admitted, in the most cynical way, by the Deputy Minister, Mrs Antonopoulou, who has been responsible for dealing with unemployment, that all the interventions, which are supportive of the unemployed, have an end date, because there are no resources to be able to support two hundred and three hundred thousand unemployed on an indefinite basis until they find a job. For Mrs Antonopoulou, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, which she represents, the treatment of unemployment is not vague support for the unemployed, but the recruitment subsidy. In other words, the Government presents, as a plan to tackle unemployment, the subsidisation of employers to all the other facilities provided to them, such as tax relief, loans, reduced insurance contributions. Therefore, you have a date of expiry for the unemployed, but never the support of employers. Here is how you perceive fair growth, parallel economic growth programs, promoted by convergence. The government, as well as the previous ones, is steadily weakening the level of protection for the unemployed. Instead of benefits, protection measures recycle unemployment, it leaves over 80% of the unemployed out of subsidisation, it gives them warm money and free work in business, it seeks those who work on the worst terms and those who do not work to be ready to accept a job on real slavery terms. In this context, therefore, the OAED framework is not a priority for the creation of stable jobs. On the other hand, it plays a central role in deregulation of work relationships, strengthens flexible labour relations. For Articles 95 and 96 - and I conclude, Mr President - which are amendments and which have been made, and which provide for that occasional work not to affect unemployment time and, respectively, extend the deadline for the submission of applications to the lenders of the OHIM, the Labour Housing Agency, to regulate their debts, we will agree. Although, of course, the issue of OEC borrowers is a very serious issue and needs further debate. We are voting against Articles 97, 98 and 99. They cover the definition of how pension remuneration is adjusted. According to the amendment to Article 97, pension remuneration will be calculated from 2000 to 2020 on the basis of the change in the average annual general consumer price index of ELSTAT, while after 2020 the pension wage will be calculated on the basis of the wage change index, that is to say, the law originally provided. The wage adjustment with the new index does not change the basic reinsurance overturn. Which one? That the new pensions will be calculated on a pension basis resulting from the total working life and not from the last salary or the last five years in force.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u267	Please, finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u268	I shall conclude, Mr President. This, of course, together with the same much lower replacement rates, which will lead to new pensions being much smaller than old ones. Consequently, the JRC, as our rapporteur has said, is voting against this bill and the specific amendments to which I have referred. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u269	Thank you. The parliamentary representative of the Potami Party, Mr Amyras, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u270	Thank you, Mr President. I was speaking with Mr Mitafidis, so I would start my speech. I want to say that I and Potami are of the opinion that many small people are doing a great deal. To achieve the great thing, we must start with political consensus. Not everything, we don't agree on everything. There are some things about social life, economic and political policy, and I will tell you that we are to be found in agreement with all of us. Mr Mitafidis brought an amendment to citizenship for the descendants of the Greek Jews who were displaced during the occupation by the Germans and were exterminated. We, of course, support this amendment. But there is another amendment that we have tabled, and I mean the three parties Members, namely Potami, the Democratic Alliance with Mr Loverdos and the Centroon Union with Mr Katsiantoni. What is this amendment with a general number of 971 and a special number 74? It's about parental custody of children. Be careful, Minister, I will soon develop the subject of the amendment. I am not very optimistic that you will accept it, but at least I try, with this statement, to open up a public debate to which - to tell you the truth - SYRIZA participated, because we had started this amendment with a fellow SYRIZA MEP to table it and agreed. Anyway, he stayed behind sometime. So what does this amendment say? It brings some minor changes to the Civil Code, in order to bring to the fore the first line as well as the principle of equal treatment between parents and sexes. What do we have here? It is known that many judicial decisions order a child’s violent disfellowshipment from divorced parents. This is a traumatic situation mainly for the child and of course also for the parents. With our amendment - Potami, the signatory George Amyras, the Democratic Compact, Andreas Loverdes, and the Centron Association, George Katsastonis - we take into account what the Council of Europe had taken into account as the best practices and legislative changes to be made. We have the recommendation of 2015 of the Committee of Ministers and Resolution 2079 of the Equality Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly, in which the principles that should govern the protection of the rights of the child and man are expressly formulated. The amendment is available to you. Its main content is the interests of the child and the interest requires the rearing of both parents. In the case of children outside marriage, the same applies to children in marriage. We are asking for a clear definition of the child’s legal residence and equality of the child’s living time with both parents. I hope that a debate will begin on this subject. It concerns thousands of people, many Greek families, who, instead of being facilitated in a healing of wounds through the judiciary and legislative bodies, are the exact opposite. Ladies and gentlemen, I now come to the news. In recent months, the country has been immersed in its vortex of so-called 'hard' negotiation, and the government seems to be trapped and blocked in its signatures and commitments towards the lenders of the country. But why does the evaluation not close? Why does the Prime Minister constantly appear unreliable in terms of time toward citizens and partners? Mr Tsipras himself last September told us that the second assessment is easier than the first one and would close quickly. In October he told the Ministerial Council that the agreement would have been reached on 5 December, then we went to January, then on 20 February, last week, the Maximos Mansion seemed certain that the evaluation would be closed on 20 March. I do not think - and I hope, of course - that in five days' time we will have a solution to the problem. The deadlines go ahead and we are lost together, and the liquidity in the market, the dynamics in the economy and the sacrifices of workers, the unemployed, the economically weaker, are unfortunately constantly growing. We are already aware of the painful measures that the government is discussing with creditors, a reduction in the duty-free and personal differences in pensions, so as to raise EUR 3.5 billion, i.e. about 2% of GDP. We have learned from Mr Diaselblum and the document that leaked to the Dutch parliament about whether and when and by what process the countermeasures will be implemented. I don't want to believe Mr. Diaselblum at all. Two weeks ago, in the Committee on Economic Affairs, I asked the Minister for Finance, Mr Tsakalotos, and he assured me - we have also the video - that the countermeasures - some are called 'barerometers', but I will remain in the government language - positive measures are supposed, as Mr Tsakalotos said, to be applied not to the surplus, above the objective of the surplus, of 3.5%, but from the first euro. Others tell us from Eurogroup. Who should you believe and who should you not believe? And yet, a year ago, I remind you, ladies and gentlemen, these issues were not on the negotiating agenda. Instead of ending austerity, it seems unfortunately that we will have the beginning of a new harder austerity. The real economy, however, cannot stand. The country returned in the last quarter of 2016 to the recession. The economists warn that the first quarter of this year will not be pomegranate. The target for growth of 2.7% is removed and the financial staff have already heard it speak about lower levels. The banking system is under new pressure. In January 2nd - February, we had significant outflows of deposits, and last month the banks asked for an extra EUR 300 million facility from the interbank market of the European Central Bank. The Greek bonds, I remind you, remain outside the program of quantitative relaxation. In simple terms, new money does not enter the economy and the market. Even the consumption of first-demand species, according to ELSTAT's communications, such as milk, has declined significantly. It's a picture of the hard reality that households experience. Ladies and gentlemen, even in the revenues we found that in February we were behind the targets, except, of course, for the increased dividend of EUR 330 million from the Bank of Greece. But that's an emergency. Overtaxation at the same time continues unreasonable. The real economy, however, sends its messages: That's enough! These bells and bells should normally be ringing in the ears of the Ministerial Council and striving to close the evaluation in a proper, fair and correct manner. At the same time, however, we see that the party state is growing. We hear about the gold one-off, about the wage increases of senior government officials, we hear about things that shouldn't even be seen in our sleep as a nightmare. Sadly, time works in favour of lenders. The world is bored in 2015 for the proud negotiation, but extremely inefficient. He's bored, however, and he doesn't even want to hear about the end of austerity in 2017 when in reality each citizen experiences exactly the opposite. The country, ladies and gentlemen, is in no way insurmountable, and only one suggestion can be made to the government, so that I too can be useful at this stage in the negotiations. Finally tell the Greeks the truth and move, make a decision! You look like the moving sand! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u271	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, twenty-nine students and students and two educational attendants from the University of Patras Experimental Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We shall proceed to the next speaker, Mr Ioannis Saridis, the Deputy of the Union of Centres. Mr. Saridis, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u272	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to place myself on the bill today. Ladies and gentlemen will cover it. Our rapporteur has already spoken about this, and so has the parliamentary representative on any objections to the articles, because we have, in principle, voted in favour of this bill. I will, however, stay in an article of the bill in Article 97. I am pleased that he is here and Minister responsible for this in order to express my views on this. One of my responsibilities at construction sites, ladies and gentlemen, before entering this Chamber, when I was working throughout Greece as a topographer, especially the one I considered to be the most heavy and important responsibility, was to be sure every time, before we start work, that we all have taken all the necessary security measures, that we are all able to meet the hard demands that were made every time and for various reasons, but that was almost never the result of the workers' decisions. So I insisted on security, like all those who are currently on construction sites, precisely because, as the tragic death of our fellow citizen in our city of Thessaloniki reminded us at the time of his work in the metro works, the errors are being paid, omissions and fatigue cost human lives. To be sure, then, that we will continue to be careful, even when we believe we have taken steps and we believe that we have taken all necessary precautions and in order to remind everyone of the need to keep an eye on the unforeseen, bad moment and, in general, what we did not see coming, when I was speaking, was always bringing the example of the answer given by the head of NASA when after an investigation had to answer the question of the American Congress: 'Why was this terrible accident in Challenger?' He had then said that it was the lack of imagination. And when he went through explanations he said that during his investigation he got the answer from many: “We had never imagined it. We could not imagine it." Lack of imagination was also invoked by the respected Minister, Mr. Petropoulos, at his second reading of the bill under discussion, when he tried to explain why it is the case with the pensions and the only Greek citizens. You must admit, therefore, that you did not imagine, when you wrote the law of Katrugalos, nor did you, Mr. Minister, nor Mr. Katrugalos, nor his then associate, and today's Minister who signed this amendment, which was incorporated as Article 97, that there is no wage index in Greece. ELSTAT doesn't count him. But you, this wage-change index, put him in the equation, the mathematical formula, on which you calculate pensions. So, suddenly, one of the variables of the equation turned into an unknown x. For this reason, therefore, because no one imagined in this government that the former were so irresponsible that they had not taken care, as they should, since 2001, of ELSTAT and this useful index of wage change, they are pulling what the Greek pensioners currently take. And you come here today and ask us unresponsively to legislate that by 2021, which ELSTAT will be able to measure the wage-change index, we will use in the place of the unknown x, created by the lack of your imagination, another indicator measured by ELSTAT and called the consumer price index. The problem is easily perceived by the citizen. You can no longer invoke a lack of imagination. We are all calling it 'What is the relationship between the two indicators?' If the wage-change index does not coincide with the price of the consumer price index what happens then? Are we going to talk again about another new milestone? Are we going to talk again about those who were retired or single before and about those who got later? You have submitted to us for Article 97 a legislative improvement in which you say that the word 'adjusted' is replaced by 'adjusted'. Where does this certainty arise, namely, that this result will be positive and will increase the amount? It doesn't appear from anywhere. You will have to answer that question, Minister. Of course, you have not answered many other questions - your Ministry - and in general I do not think we should show you the same confidence. Ask yourself and consider what the seventeen people think, who will vote in the next election, whenever they do. Ask them what trust they have that if they pay their insurance contributions and taxes, they will receive a decent pension in time. You'll get an answer that'll scare you. The first seventeen voters are the first generation to have lived in a time of crisis and do not remember the grandeurs of 2004 and the delusional ones of 1998. You lose confidence every time, once again and today, you Government. I shall conclude by presenting in the Minutes a question which has been tabled on 15 September by me and all the Members of the Union of Centres, which so far has been unanswered. The questions raised by this question were as follows: ‘Are you prepared to provide sufficient explanations to the affected pensioners for unexpected and incompatible with the law that you have introduced reductions imposed on them?’ The question so far is unanswered. Second question: "How do you intend to rectify the injustice in the imposition of reductions and its non-legality in order to restore legality?". An unanswered question to date. Today the government's majority will vote on Rule 97. After the vote on Rule 97, these questions will remain unanswered. I ask the relevant question about the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Saridis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] [[At this point Mr Georgios Dimitrios Karras presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u273	Thank you, too. Independent MEP Georgios - Dimitrios Karras has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u274	Thank you, Mr President. I will not go into the bill. What for? In the House there are fellow doctors. We hear their views, the arguments on either side that help to form an opinion. I don't know about medical matters. So let me not expand. Of course, the bill today also has pensions, social security provisions and a number of amendments and it is difficult - if you like - to manage it in this range. That is why I am going to dwell on a few points. Before all, I would like to welcome Mr Mitafidis' initiative on the amendment to naturalisation of the objects of the Jewish origin. I think it's to restore an injustice. I think that unanimously the House should support it. I shall, however, turn to another matter that comes up with an amendment on issues of the Asylum Service and the Asylum Refugee Authority. Even though the government seems to be undermining this effort, because I still think the Minister for Migration has not shown himself to analyse this issue, I shall be here because there is a great history and great maliciousness in this matter. So I'm starting and I'm allowed. The Government is requesting the Ministry of Immigration again to amend the Directorate of the Asylum Service. Calls for there to be subsidiary bodies to assist in the preparation of cases, either rapporteurs or secretaries. But he forgot something, which is more important. The question of the functioning of the Asylum Service and the question of the principle of alleged appeals by the so-called independent authorities has not yet been addressed. You will forgive me and allow me to pride myself on something. New Member of Parliament also asked the Ministry of Justice and Human Rights on 28 March 2016, saying this: ‘The complex administrative and judicial proceedings lead to obstacles to the examination of asylum applications, the examination of appeals and, ultimately, the final judgment stage’. It has been answered by Mr Paradise that this is how we protect human rights. But I did not ask for a reduction in human rights. I asked for faster procedures. I ask the relevant question about the Minutes. Next, I asked for something else - and I asked for the personal reports - so I asked, when the matter had become explosive on the five Aegean islands - we are all following the news and we all know how this issue is going - that the examination of asylum applications be accelerated on the islands of the Eastern Aegean and I proposed a concrete amendment to the legislation. What was the result? It became known on the islands and the Samos municipal council unanimously, all the parts, it adopted the amendment proposal, which led to simplification and acceleration. That sounds good. [[At this point Mr Georgios Dimitrios Karras presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Today, then, an amendment is coming which tells us this: when I was the first to have reacted to the entry of ordinary judges of the administrative courts into the asylum committees, in the sense that they may have votes or unconstitutional issues, I was told that there is no such problem. Today, however, the problem is coming back. I accept that, at the moment, the involvement of judges in the appeal committees is in line with the Constitution, so as not to support other positions, to develop the issue and to end it once and for all. Because, you know, there is also a statement by Turkey - the European Union on 18 March 2016, which we do not yet know how it will evolve with developments in the next few days and months in the wider space. Of course I have to say it, perhaps even without time at the moment, because there is no representative of the Ministry of Immigration. I think that the government is represented, but not even recorded in the Minutes. I shall return, therefore, and say this: I shall accept the constitutionality. But do you know what comes today and says? That the preparation for the judges will be made by subsidiary rapporteurs, who will not be from the European Asylum Service or who will not be members of the Asylum Service. So what's going on? Will the judges be bound by the opinion? Is it common to prepare non-judicial cases for judges? Let me give you an example. Prosecutors shall not have any officials or assistant assistants who are non-judicial and non-prosecutors. They've got the assistant financial prosecutors. I want to remind you of something else. Last Friday in plenary session of the Council of State, three preliminary rulings were referred to the Seventh Chamber of the Third Chamber, which raised questions to L.4375 whether it is constitutional or not - and there is a very important note. The judges of the Supreme Court said: They may administrative bodies in the independent Board of Appeal perform tasks, but certain administrative powers to ensure their proper functioning. Here today, however, there is the preparation of the judicial work by non-judiciary judges. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point Mr Georgios Dimitrios Karras presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In other words, we are coming back to that point that was a problem to us more and more years ago. And where are we coming back? I have not heard any evidence that the possibility of examining asylum applications has accelerated or that the possibility of dealing with this issue has accelerated. Why don't we just forget that Greece is a humanitarian country. And that cannot be called into question, but it has sixty thousand people trapped in the mainland at the moment, who will remain - not to be ethers, there is no further procedure - and there are twelve or thirteen thousand in the islands for which they are ignored whether to be reprocessed or not. No one can confirm. I think, therefore, that the Ministry of Migration and the Government should be more careful, not to legislate, to take care of what they are legislating, because I wish in a year not to say the same again in the same Chamber. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to add that the pensions which have been put to the law now show a certain degree of uncertainty. Because when we do not know how to calculate or recalculate pensions, we all understand the anxiety, concern, which we are causing to these thousands of people or millions who are waiting to see what is right and what is not right in the end. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u275	Thank you, too, Mr. Carras. The Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, Mr Rabbit, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u276	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, let us start by saying that our special speaker, Mr Aivatidis, who also knows the subject very well and expressed our views. On the occasion of the Minister's presence today, I would like to raise a number of questions to the Greek people, but also to the Minister to answer whether it is democratic, legal and right, to a minister who is now in a ministry, and tomorrow it is more likely that he will not be present, who gives the right not to answer the questions raised to him by the Golden Dawn. And it is not just that the Minister is not answering, but that, in full consultation with his State Secretary, both are not answering. So you democrats rule out over four hundred thousand Greeks who are voting at the moment Golden Dawn to learn and deal with health issues that concern all Greeks. So who gives you, Mr. Democrat Secretary, and your State Secretary? Who gives you the right? And you know very well that the MP is not only a member of his party. Of course we do not only ask about the voters of the Golden Dawn, but we ask about all Greek citizens. So the questions we ask you are obliged to answer them. And tell us, if you respect democracy, you of the so-called "constitutional and democratic arch", which, of course, you are the fraudulent arch that you have eaten and crossed Greece for forty-five years now. Say, who gives the Bureau of Parliament and the President, Mr Voutsi, the right to give EUR 25,000 to the 'Left History Study Foundation'? Who gives you the right? Is that your money? Anything you want to give for the youth studying the left history, give it from your own pocket, if you want, and if you're so bronze and you share the money and not from the Greek people. You won't share money that doesn't belong to you. Because you've learned to be galantines with a glue, and that's not allowed. So tell us whether all this applies democratically and whether it is possible to do so? Because here you have taken a word, 'democracy', you're as tense as you like and as much as it suits you and you do what you want. To deal with the statements made by Greece's Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, Karugalos, who said what? When Turkey, in its attitude, has almost all of Europe to its face, comes the Greek Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs, comes the official Greek Government and gives an alibi to the Turks, saying that what the Dutch, the Germans, the Austrians and what all the other European countries will do - and it is one of the few things they do and in an indirect way is in favour of us - this is what we condemn. So your government and your views are nationally dangerous. And this is not only about an unlucky and ridiculous statement by the Deputy Minister of State, Katrugalo, because if it were an incident we could justify it. This comes in connection with the fact that a few days ago your Government, which I repeat, is nationally dangerous, implements with a pilot program that, when we say pilot, we know will be permanent in the course, learning two languages in our minority schools in Thrace. So your anti-national and treacherous government forces the Thrace Muslims, who have nothing to do with Turkey and the Turks, to take their children to an early age, in kindergarten and in the first grades of primary school, and to be forced to learn Turkish when they say they do not want it. What, then, is all this by chance, government humanists? So why do you, who are very humanists and are concerned with the rights of minorities, do not care and look at the rights of the Pomacian minority, who do not accept their children going there? Or the Roma, who live in the region and do not want to declare Turks and are not Turks? So why don't you look sensitive there? And why don't you make sure these kids learn the languages they want? So when the Pomaks say their children want to learn pomace and greek, you force them to learn Turkish. And I repeat: the Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs says that the Turks can come to Thrace and have election gatherings. It is unacceptable, it is disgraceful what you say. And of course here we don't have to do, I repeat, with one mistake, but it's your fixed position. And the atheist said that "here's nothing going on, anyway, they've been back to Thrace and they've had gatherings". That's the reality. Even by mistake, you tell the Greek people. So you consider yourself to be taken for granted and self-evident that the Turks can come and perpetuate within our Thrace. You consider it abundant and self-evident that the Turks can come here and through the Turkish consulate claiming lands of our Greece. You consider this data. In fact, you also have MPs who declare Turks within the Greek Parliament. And here is the hypocrisy of the New Democracy, the so-called patriotic, ever, New Democracy, but also of the ANELs with whom you are co-governing, who, when these issues come, do what they don't see, make the ostrich. That's the reality. And when there was a misunderstanding in here, in the Greek Parliament, on the benches and we asked as Golden Dawn by the Turkish MP in the Greek Parliament to declare that there is no Turkish minority in Thrace, this man did not know what to say. But the President-in-Office - on that day he was the Caklamani of the New Democracy - covered him up and told us that "you cannot state a Member". So listen to where we arrived: it is a Member of Parliament who will tell the Greek Parliament that there is no Turkish minority. He's a Member of Parliament who says he doesn't feel like he's a Turk. Here we are, and you come and mock them all. And, of course, it's not just a fairy tale that you are a hundred fifty three and you have three Muslims and you are in danger of being thrown at you. That's not it. If that were the case, I would show an understanding on this matter. It is that you have these views. It is that you are not interested in Greek rights. It is that you are not interested in the rights and Muslims living in Thrace, who do not want anything to do with the Turkish consulate and are forced to go to his arms because of your unacceptable behaviour and previous governments. So, let's talk over here about your humanism. We even saw yesterday a new centre of illegal immigrants being created in Thebes and being ready to operate within a few days. In this center of illegal immigrants we saw an excellent installation, perfect, painted, all in perfection! But aren't you a little embarrassed? The Greek citizens don't exist? The Greek citizens are not hungry right now? The impoverished, as you, Greek citizens, have made them, where will they live, what will they do? But this is your democracy! You go and take the home of a Greek who owes you, who has no money to pay for the loan that you, these governments, this Parliament, from these banks with which you have been cooperating, have been paying them for so many years. You take them homes, but instead you give money to illegal immigrants, you give food to illegal immigrants, you give them housing, you give them all rights, and within a short time all of them will have taken, as you want, Greek citizenship. We of course believe that this will not be allowed, that this will not happen and that all of your plans will be stopped in the middle. Here, then, we have to do and discuss with you, the Japanese humanists, who are being cut off for the rights of every illegal immigrant. Why don't you cut yourself off for the Greek girls? According to a survey by the 'Reuters' which we have just seen yesterday, Greek birds are paying for the crisis from an economic problem that is afflicting Greece. So we see that the Greek families, the Greek father and the Greek mother cannot keep them at home. They take them to various institutions, leave them there - at least five days a week - and go and get them only a weekend, because they cannot feed them. But that's where we didn't see you giving any part of it. We did not see you taking out any funds and sharing them with these Greek families or for these institutions, which we have seen and read, according to the responsible official's statement, do not have the money to pay the people who work there either. Many are the ones who work unwindly and good for people! Where, then, are you left-wing humanists, when one in three households, according to the official figures of the Greek Statistical Authority, lives below the limits of poverty? Where are you, really? Why don't we see your humanity? Why don't you leftists, give them food, help them or even better vote for bills in the Greek Parliament, in which you will cover these vulnerable groups of Greek citizens? Because the only racism in Greece is racism against the Greeks. Anyone who claims to be from Bangladesh, Pakistan, Afghanistan or the Earth of Fire has rights in Greece only not to be a Greek citizen. You are the humanists and democrats, who will repeat once again here that you, too, are in your ministry - and the other ministers who are here - have no right to not answer the questions of Golden Dawn. You would have the right, Minister, if I were to come to your doctor's office, which is yours, and you wouldn't have agreed to serve me and to diagnose me. That's your right, and I respect it. But here, he's not at your house. It belongs to the Greek people, which is why you are obliged to do so. Right now, you're managing the ministries, it's not your feud. You are obliged, since you are democrats, to answer the questions of the Greek Members, because no matter how much it hurts you, no matter how much you wish, we are elected Members. I would like to finish with the question of evaluation. Of course there is no question of evaluation. We have been telling the Greek people for too many months that the evaluation will end the last day, in the last deadlines, around May. You will impoverish the people again, there will be a fear over his head "what is now, if the evaluation is not made, go to the drachma, destroy our country". Finally, at that time you will offer him a crumb to say that everyone relieved "happily the evaluation has been done." The evaluation will be done. You are committed to the governments of international loan sharks. There's nothing else you can do. You'll do it and you'll vote for it. Also, the lionisations of the Officership have no value when on August 14, 2015, you voted together all these measures and the Instant Memorandum. After all, when the New Democracy comes - if it comes back to power again - the same measures will apply. So that is not the case. I conclude by saying that we also live in another theater of irrationality, because in Greece we have seen it all. I see conquests being held in Athens and not just. We see some para-state bums entering private or public buildings, looting, doing whatever they want or I don't know what else is going on. With what right have these people gone there and taken over these spaces and no one dares to do anything? When someone's wrong about your data, and it sends the police to throw out these punks, your official position is against all of them. At this point we have arrived, that's what we're talking about. That's the reality. We hope and hope that you will not be allowed to continue this work, you will not be allowed to sell Greece. You've done enough against us. The ridiculous thing about this case is this. A few days ago, a Member of your Parliament had come out and talked to us about Venezuela's paradise, what good things are in Venezuela, what right things are there. Today or yesterday we saw the Venezuelan Parliament officially come out and say that Venezuela is in a food humanitarian crisis. Imagine what world you live in.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u277	The Minister for Migration Policy has the floor, Mr.Musalas, to justify an amendment - supplementing the provisions of Law.4375/2016 on issues of the Ministry of Migration Policy's appeals. Mr. Muzala, how much time do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u278	Three minutes, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I know that you are often dismayed when we bring changes to the recent law. But, I've told you repeatedly, laws are shaped by needs. Immigration is a very fluid situation yet. So this will continue to happen. I would therefore ask you not to discuss the same thing every time. I'm gonna make some legislative improvements. I withdraw paragraphs 1 and 4. These are the paragraphs concerning the appointment of the Director of the Boards of Appeal. I have listened carefully to criticism and judgments. We will work again, although I would like to say that the way in which it is appointed is the way in which almost all the administrative directors are appointed. I don't know how to tell you when he gets back to what he's gonna look like. It could be the same. But I heard things that have a sense behind them. I will try to see if I can shape it somehow that it cannot withstand such criticism, even though I tell you again - and you who are old here know it - this is a crisis for an administrative director. Under old law, it's practically inapplicable. In these circumstances, time is pushing. We'll come back. What remains is, in practical terms, the appointment of those who exist throughout international law and in all the countries of Europe, the 'rapporteurs', the assistant rapporteurs. We call it 'assistant rapporteurs' to separate it from the oldest rapporteurs, because these people have no jurisdiction but to prepare the file with the data which are data in international law, the database of asylum services throughout the world, to all the database involved, and to put it in the judgement of the judges. There again, we have a dramatic change, which is insignificant first of all, but we do so to demonstrate in the clearest way that there is only a judicial crisis among the members of the appeal committees and not the assistant rapporteurs. There's a need to do this. Our judges and those who participate in the Boards of Appeal cannot have the support they have in the other Member States of the European Union to carry out their work quickly. I would ask you very much to accept this. Thank you. [[At this point, Minister Ioannis Mousalas presents for the Minutes the above-mentioned legislative improvement, which reads as follows:]] Change Page To enter page 218 Change Page
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u279	Thank you, too. The reason is the Deputy Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity Mrs Fotio to support the amendment "Technical assistance of the Ministry of National Defence in the context of the refugee crisis". Please, Mrs. Fotio, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u280	Thank you, Mr President. This is the amendment with a general number 952 and a special 63. It's in the short term. It is, if you remember, the article in the Ministry of Labour's bill, which the House called for, that is, all the parties in this House, to come back, to make it clear that it is not a charismatic award provision, etc. EC 11-1989, point 2.1.78. If you remember, this is the property of supervised welfare institutions, which can now be shaped by this amendment in residences for unaccompanied minors, whether they are Greek or not. And with this amendment, we are giving the Ministry of Defence the right to carry out these work on the housing of minors, which, as you know, is still a problem with the number that they have. That is what this amendment is all about. I hope it pleases you. There's no exception from any...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u281	Where's the money from?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u282	AMIF. I just said that. From the Asylum, Migration and Integration Fund. I therefore hope that the amendment will now be and appear honest, because I had supported it in its essence last time, but you told me that this does not appear in the wording. So I brought it in the right wording. I hope it's all right, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u283	Thank you, Minister. And we're going with Mr. Papaliou, SYRIZA MP. Here, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u284	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is well known that mental health is a particular, critical and sensitive issue, which requires specialized care to be provided by the public health services of all levels. It is clear that priority should be given to prevention, which is not just developed in the field of medicine. Socio-economic factors such as poverty, deprivation and inequalities exacerbate the mental health problems of the population. Since during times of economic and social crisis these factors are increasing, it is expected at such times that the mental health of the population is at greater risk. This is because people living under conditions of unemployment, poverty and impoverishment face an increased risk of mental health problems. With this bill, given government support for this very sensitive area of health continues, helping people with mental health problems to remain active citizens, as far as possible in their own environment, with autonomy, economic and social action, despite the current conditions of crisis and economic suffocation. Of course, the main obligation of the state is the unified and continuous coverage of the health problems of all citizens, regardless of their social, economic, religious or racial characteristics. The need for a proper distribution of the limited financial resources, in line with the principles of social justice and solidarity, is now becoming even more urgent. The proposed arrangements of the bill include a series of important reforms to organise mental health services of the rare diseases expertise centres, as well as arrangements to improve the functioning of the ERC. The first chapter of this draft law aims to reform the administrative organisation of mental health services by decentralising, ensuring the functionality of the new administrative structure, transparent and democratic administration and ensuring the protection of patients' rights. On the basis of these structures, there is therefore a new administrative structure with the setting-up of twelve regional administrations of mental health sectors in health regions, the setting-up of an eleven-member mental health scientific committee for adults in every area of mental health and the setting-up of a comprehensive scientific committee in every area of mental health for children and adolescents. This form of administrative organisation of services will be implemented through safeguarded resources, while for the integration, development and support of the system, its monitoring, the organisation of services, the training of healthcare staff and the functioning of control, evaluation and interconnection issues, the NSRP for the 2014-2020 programming period have provided funds. A second point is that dependencies, chronic illnesses and serious illnesses are the subject of special attention. That is how arrangements are introduced to make them more rational and more effective. I note that this draft is intended to highlight and improve the functioning of the special care centres, which, according to European standards, are renamed to expert centres, now having the possibility of applying for membership of the European reference networks. In addition, in the third chapter of this draft law, there are rules on the financing of centres for the prevention of dependency and the promotion of psychosocial health, clarifying the relevant institutional framework. A clear institutional framework is also laid down for the general functioning and funding of the National Documentation and Information Centre for Drugs, which will operate as a unit of the Research University of Psych health. In addition, the mandatory registration of cancer cases in the National Archive of Neoplasms is established and sanctions are introduced for cases of breach of this legislation. I am going to focus on two points in the effort to improve the National Health System by regulating issues relating to staff and, in particular, doctors. This regulates issues relating to the granting of training permits to qualified doctors in the ESS and decentralised units of the HR, which have not been foreseen until now and also, the granting of a paid leave for the follow-up of scientific conferences to assisting doctors. As is also important - and this is important - the right to compulsory transfer of doctors and dentists, six months after their application has been made, after five years of actual service in barren and inaccessible areas. And finally, the right to second supplementary doctors, civil servants, OTAs, to the place where subsidiary doctors are served. In this way, these regulations strengthen the attraction of doctors to barren and inaccessible areas. Two final comments on the legal arrangements of the Ministry of Labour and the OAED. As part of the policy of resurgence of unemployment and as an emergency measure, it is proposed to extend the possibility of designing and implementing fixed-term employment programmes in the public sector to groups of unemployed with similar characteristics and to harmonise the terminology used in the programmes to promote the employment of unemployed people in the public sector. These are arrangements that rationalise the system of selecting unemployed people for employment programmes and demonstrate that the policy of tackling unemployment is being implemented in a uniform, transparent, objective, rational, social law, with a view to being effective. Furthermore, they demonstrate that the party state promoted by SYRIZA as the opposition parties claim, are novelties and are said and written for reasons of opposition and only in order to form a climate. As far as the occasional work of registered unemployed is concerned, any unemployed person, whether subsidized or not, works occasionally and prefers his work to not be disclosed to the OAU in order not to lose the rights granted to him by the official unemployment scheme, with the unwanted socio-economic effects (subsidy of lawlessness, addiction to acceptance of an illegal act, loss of insurance income and distortion of competition) may, at the request of the OAED, at the request of the OAED to ensure that the previous unemployment time is zeroed when the duration of his work does not exceed seventy days per 12-month period, starting from the date on which the worker was unemployed and ends in the date on which he is unemployed. A new type of flexible work is not introduced, but all forms of intermittent work fall within it. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall end this. Today, too, as in previous legislative debates, the opposition parties agree with the bill, but in order for the opposition to be exercised for the sake of the opposition, there are objections to individual articles - understandable and legitimate - but also to general criticism, in this case, of the National Health System. And this is happening as if the state of the National Health System were the result of the two-year policy of SYRIZA governance and not of the previous decades in which, apart from other things, there was a great dispersion of resources. Let's not forget. So a little self-criticism on the part of the South and the PASOK doesn't hurt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u285	Thank you, too. I would like to make a statement to this House. Mr. Theodorakis, President of the Party The Potami, informs the President and the House that he is appointed Secretary of his party's parliamentary group, Mr. George Mavrotas. [[The above letter reads as follows:]] Changing p. Let the page in. 229 Changing p.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u286	MEP Mrs Theodora (Dora) Bakoyannis asks for permission from a short-day absence for Wednesday 15 March and Thursday 16 March 2017, because she will be in Cyprus invited as a speaker at an event at the Democratic Alarm. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u287	The House therefore approved the requested permission.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u288	Mr President, may I take the floor to make a clarification?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u289	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u290	A moment ago, we shared a legislative improvement in Amendment No 961 and a special 69, not 962/70, as mentioned in the document which was distributed to us. It is Mr Muzala's amendment to say that. It is a mistake because it refers to the Health Ministry's amendment of 962/70.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u291	Okay. We'll see. Thank you. Mr Kelles, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u292	Thank you, Mr President. "Physical reform aims to change the psychiatric paradigm, to raise the immunity culture and to emanate mental patients, which is a category of weak and vulnerable people." This is an excerpt from the last speech of the Minister for Health, Mr Blonde, yesterday in the Committee on Social Affairs. What does the bill you bring, Minister, have to do with those very nice words you're saying? You are bringing a legislative initiative with two years' delay for the administrative organisation of health services. The impressive thing here is that this bill is supposed to be your privileged field of discussion, since SYRIZA has been a strong supporter of psychiatric reform, decommissioning and closure of psychiatric hospitals over the past twenty years. This was all until you became a government, because for two and a half years now, you have done nothing at all. This bill brings it to the House just to justify to your world, because you do nothing until now to mental health, since you should supposedly reform the mental health services system administratively and then deal with mental reform. I ask you, Minister: how many psychiatric departments in the general hospitals have you developed to date? None. How many weeks have you spent in the three remaining psychiatric hospitals in the country, Mr. Xanthi? None. And tell you why? Because you stopped the process of decommissioning patients from the immunity department of psychiatric hospitals. How many Community mental health structures have you developed to provide integrated services for prevention, diagnosis, treatment and rehabilitation of mental disorders in the community? How many dayclubs did you do in the ERR primary health care structures? None. How many structures, hostels and boarding houses have you developed for the psychosocial rehabilitation and reintegration of special mentally ill groups, such as patients who are hospitalized in breach of Article 69 of the Criminal Code and those who are essentially dependent? None, Minister. How many permanent nurses have you hired over the last two years into public mental health structures? Unfortunately, no one again. The opposite is true. The last two years of nurses have been retired in Dafni. On this occasion, Minister, I would like to ask whether the recruitment of those four thousand nurses - I leave the fifteen thousand children to infants - still apply? I ask why the money from television licences with the 'Pappa Law' was returned to the successful tenderers the day before yesterday, with the amendment tabled by the Minister of Finance. You know that. Sadly, Minister!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u293	Three thousand have already been appointed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u294	In psychiatry, how many of them did you put in?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u295	You're asking if they'll get the money? They've already been appointed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u296	I'm asking you. These are your words. They're not mine. Your statements were the night the law was judged unconstitutional, which passed the law, that you would hire four thousand nurses and that fifteen thousand children would have access to nurseries. They were your words, Mrs. Gerovali.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u297	I'm answering. It was covered 65 million from the OAED budget.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u298	Let's go down. Unfortunately, the bill you bring does not deal with any of the crucial institutional issues relating to psychiatric reform as a whole. Where is the update of public policy in the field of mental health, in order to demarcate the objectives of the state and the action of the actors? When will the full development and implementation of mental health services be implemented? When will you finally finish the release of the remaining patient years into the three psychiatric hospitals in the country operating under terrible conditions? Will you implement the system of financial control of NGOs, so that transparency can finally be restored and the Greek people who go to their money know? Unfortunately, the way you've been moving on to mental health, all the national effort over the last decades on psychiatric reform will be lost. And I come to the proposed draft law. It replaces sectoral mental health committees with scientific committees. But these changes have already been made, with the law passed by New Democracy in 2014 involving patients, etc. Secondly, you are setting up secondary committees in the region and in the Department of Psych health. These committees have nothing to offer. Only bureaucracy adds. It would be more realistic to have committees only at regional level and in direct contact with the Directorate for Psychiatric Health. She is setting up committees on patients' rights in every area of mental health. And that's too much. You cannot find so many members to manipulate them that they really possess the issue of rights and will end up "Yiannis is buying, Yiannis drinks". Appropriate checks can only be carried out at the level of an RU. In addition, hospitals already have committees that can operate decentralisedly. Finally, there is a clear conflict of interest between members' qualities and responsibilities. In very many cases, too many controls are controlled and the overseeing and overseeing. The previous system you know why it was malfunctioning? Because the proposals of the TECs were almost never adopted by the Ministry. This has led to their depreciation and decline. Now, how can it be ensured that the exact same thing does not happen? Excessive decentralisation of control and supervision of patients' rights is more likely to bring collapse despite improvement. And I come to the other provisions. For the rare and complex diseases expertise centres it is in the right direction. From the part of the bill concerning other provisions, special attention is needed in Article 29 to ensure that doctors are not stripped of barren and locust areas. For the creation of a pan-Hellenic Association of dentists and therapists there is no objection. And I come to Article 48 for AEMY. Mr. Ministers, remember, AEMY AND RAN, red sails! It was the first time you'd disappear as soon as you'd become a government. It's been two years. Not only did you not abolish them, but you are doing exactly the opposite. But that doesn't impress us either. You are consistent with your inconsistency. That's what you've done to everything you've promised up to today. But do you also have to do this for a direct assignment and for a project contract? There are limits! And all "within any special provision", says the bill. Even the chairman will be recruited, and these will by way of derogation, colleagues, of any special and general provision. And the recruitment of the president will be approved after a week by the board of directors. What if they're not approved? What's gonna happen? Will anyone tell us? And I come to Article 53. Are you referring to a surplus distribution to the workers at the EEO, up to 700,000 euros? Is it possible at a time when you have cut the ESS, which you have cut the subsidiary, that you are ready to sign and reduce the main pensions to increase up to EUR 700,000 in a given category of workers? What will it say “the EFO is self-financed”? Yes, is it self-financed and does not charge the state budget, but will the profits of the EFF, which is a state agency and which receives public fees? Will the employees share them?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u299	What else do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u300	If ever possible! If ever possible! You wonder, but that's the way it is. He says it in. It's like I'm telling you. I'll show it to you. Mr. Xanthi, you have just tabled an amendment to primary health care. Now I think you're not serious. I think you'll drop it. It is not possible to bring a bill in which you have a lot of provisions for TENs and at the same time to bring a late amendment to TEMPUS, to change to primary health care. I think there are limits of seriousness, Minister. Your newspaper interview three months ago was much bigger than this thing here. I think you should withdraw it in order to maintain at least minimum respect for Parliament, but also for you personally. Are you changing the system of primary health care with a late amendment of a page? If that's possible! It's amazing.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u301	Easy. So much for the sacred indignation! You've been creeped ten times since this morning.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u302	Mr. Polakis, there are limits. I don't get indignation. I'm talking about you. So you don't get indignant too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u303	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u304	I have nothing more to add. I think it is not possible to pass such articles and such a bill, except for a minimum of exceptions. Because before you said something about hospital managers...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u305	Please, Mr. Kelles. Don't have a dialogue because...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u306	No, no. I'm done. I say this because Mr Paulakis said something before - it is not personal - for the hospital managers that they had entered in alphabetical order. I doubt that, but can I ask you something? The party line is better than alphabetical? Because there are vacant posts of hospital administrators...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u307	Please, Mr. Kelles, finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u308	...where there were remarkable candidates, but they weren't parties and you again proclaimed them. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u309	Thank you. SYRIZA MP, Mr. Kaisha, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u310	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill under discussion is entitled 'Reforming the Administrative Organisation of mental health services'. I was lucky to live about thirty years ago about the dismantling of this situation that had also been implemented in the Prefecture of Evros. We were lucky there to have - and I will mention this from this Step - pioneer psychiatrists such as Mr Sakellaropoulos who have applied the new methods of dealing with mental illnesses. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the House is occupied by Mr. SYRIDON LYKOUDES.]] They have become mobile units ever since and have offered patients to their homes, the settlements they lived in. They offered them this need for treatment. However, for thirty years the system has remained without any reform and no help whatsoever. Those who have ruled over all these years are now calling SYRIZA on the one hand because after ten months of consulting this bill, they are now coming and criticising us that we have been late to reform the system. The reform being carried out is the decentralisation of administration and democratisation. I think that this will be judged by the involvement and staffing of these services. Another issue facing this bill is the great reduction in the health system. That's unprecedented. I think that there should not be such a reduction on a global scale. I'm referring to doctors, dentists and health staff. Over two and a half thousand doctors left within a minimum period of time. This has never happened before. We are now being called upon to resolve this issue. We shall return on conditions, with the time the people who have lost their jobs against their will must have. I think this is one of the most important issues that solves this bill. We have to bear in mind that, with this action by the previous government, which fired two and a half thousand doctors, all of them were insured. One number I will only tell you: In Alexandroupolis at the IKA EOPY there were 68 doctors who offered services. Do you know how many he had after? Seven. You understand what this world has been through with this sub-delegation of services. A third issue which perhaps goes "the change", but for me it is of enormous importance, is that a pan-Hellenic association of dentists and therapists is being set up. This is not just a request from the dentists who have been asking for for forty years, but it also gives a solution to the insured who, because there was no such legal person as a contract with the funds, now that it has become one with the EVA, that the insured should be contracted and paid for dental work. So all the insured were charged. Why? Because there was no such legal framework that the fund can make contracts, so that the person receiving dental care from the fund can be compensated. This - because I am from a border region - has had other tragic consequences. Since the burden on dentistry was high, the insured went to Bulgaria and other countries to make their teeth. And these people are now resenting us because we're late. Finally, another article, which is also important to me, is that the Ministry of Health has the ability to grant public service or to legal persons governed by public law or to private legal persons real estate buildings, which cannot be exploited, cannot exploit them. I'll get you an example from my county again. Fifteen years ago there was a new hospital in Alexandroupolis, the university, and there all the structures were taken from the old, as they call it. Don't imagine too old. It took place for the first time in 1976. It's a 1976 building. It is a plot of fifty thousand meters, where there are three buildings inside and seventy-three thousand square meters built. This entire building has been for fifteen years since 2002 - it has been literally devastated - let me be allowed to express it - and it is being destroyed. It's untapped. Services such as the district, the courts, the police, as well as a number of other services could be served there and we could have multiple economic benefits. I think that this will give us a solution which will help us very much to deal with the problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u311	Mr Petropoulos has the floor to make a small intervention. I hope it will be short, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u312	Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u313	Thank you. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u314	Just to fill something out in the previous legislative improvement that I omitted inadvertently. In addition to the paragraphs to which I referred earlier, and in paragraphs 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 and 12 of Article 97, the word 'adjusted', 'adjusted', etc., as well as in the event of such a share being made, shall be replaced by the word 'adjusted', 'adjusted', etc. It's clear, I think. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u315	Mr Minister, it is to be tabled to be distributed and taken into account by colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u316	Yes, Mr. President. [[At this point the Deputy Minister, Mr Anastasios Petropoulos, presents for the Minutes the above-mentioned legislative improvements, which are as follows:]] Changing p. To enter page 245 Changing p.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u317	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, fifty-seven students and students and four educational sessions from the 1st High School Sparta. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] My colleague Mr. Castore of SYRIZA has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u318	Ladies and gentlemen, it is a fact that a few articles in this draft law refer to mental health. But it couldn't be different. Mental health and, in particular, its reform, is a huge chapter, a very large part of public health, for which we will probably have to discuss with great comfort some other time. I think there are many difficult points that we need to talk about and see how we deal with them. However, this draft law we are debating today is signed "Reforming the Administrative Organisation of mental health services". We are not all talking about mental health reform. Let's focus on this. And why are we just talking about this part? Because we see that there is a problem of organising administrative services, and this prevents us from continuing with the psychiatric reform, which has eroded. There are many Members who have to deal with all the issues today. What is it that's not going well, and we need to fix it? We all know - and we have agreed and agreed for the next period too - that several steps have been taken. Starting with Law 2716 first of all, they have been closed, they have been transformed, large hospitals, with immunity clinics, at least four prefectures. You know it. It's in Chania, Corfu, Tripoli, Pieria, Katerini. They have been closed, and now patients are out of asylum, they have gone to the community and mental health centres have been set up, hospitality structures, social cooperatives and day care centres. There was a great effort and, indeed, very good one. But is that enough? Psychiatric reform, after all, is it just for these prefectures that had psychiatric hospitals that had asylums? The rest of Greece? While the law provided for the creation of mental health areas and all general state hospitals to exist in psychiatric clinics, this has not happened. There's a lot of gaps. Of course, there has been a great deal of effort - and we have to admit it here - because there was a lot of money, both from "HORIZON" initially, but also from "HORIZON". The first factor, then, is money and a second, the share of mental health workers. I say - and I think we will agree - that a movement for mental health reform has been created. And that was mainly based on mental health professionals. They gave their best and fought and fought against perceptions obsolete, like the ones that today the Nazi fans and here in the House defend, such as mental patients must be outside the world, outside of residential areas. That is what they say today about refugees. So we fought against these perceptions, we broke where the stigma could and we have brought the world into society, at least those who were in the asylum to that moment. However, the crisis has come, the big funding has stopped, the whole health system has been underfunded, particularly mental health, and furthermore, the organisations of these mental health networks have also been abolished. Because by closing psychiatrics and asylums, networks were created in these areas. Mr. Georgiadis came by law, abolished both the agencies and by means of accreditations he transferred workers to general state hospitals, at least where they existed. The result was in the face of the major problems of the general state, that the structures should be even more subordinated, that there should be no staff than a nurse on each shift, so that the therapeutic multi-sectoral groups do not function, and that, in the end, these small structures, degraded, risk becoming small asylums. That's what we want to deal with with with the law. At the same time, the Georgiadis Act degraded the Psychiatric Health Department in a department and there was a complete disorganization. No structure was controlled, not assisted, to serve the work for which it was created. We come with this law and we put a class. We create new institutions, we create new instruments for the interconnection of mental health from the bottom up. Health care providers themselves participate in these bodies. In these institutions, society is involved, local government is involved. And all these institutions have a decisive role, they have powers that enable them to move forward. We're starting with this. We don't stop at this. We're putting the foundation on today. I imagine that in a short time we will again hear how we want mental health to be done in our space, what will happen in the rest of Greece, and we will have much better results. I want to finish - I am, of course, in my time still - referring to one, two issues. I do not want to answer Mr Gregorakos, who with patience is here, one of the few Members who are waiting to hear all the views. You told us, Mr Gregorako, that the level of health shows the level of a country's culture. Also the level of prosperity of a people and a country. You have forgotten, however, that health beyond a quality of life and culture, is a social asset and is not a commodity and that this good must be given to all those who need it. That is why we brought free access to public health to all citizens are, are not workers, they are, they are not insured. We were, we are, and we will always be in favour of public health as a social asset to be given to all. This whole world that has supported the public health system so far has many problems - and I am referring to the workers - is tired, has no vision and we are trying to give it to it, but, above all, it is very low. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, in two seconds. That is why, within this difficult budgetary policy that is currently in existence, in these huge difficulties facing our country, we are taking a small step: we are giving what we can today. The money the employee gets in public hospitals when doing night work, holidays, etc. Be 15%, 20% this raise? It's really not good enough. She's a little girl. But that is what we can do today, fighting to change the whole system, to change the pay system, to be able to reward on the basis of what they need to live up to their families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u319	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Nicholas Manios has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u320	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to understand the size of this attempt on mental health and not just because other things are included in this bill, we need to see what happened with primary health care in the National Health System. It's a big temptation to talk about the National Health System. I won't do it now. It was a top institutional change when it happened. The system, however, was abandoned - not only economically - since 1988, which was also a confession and agreement of the Minister of Health, Mr Giannis Florus - I hope he is alive and listens to me -...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u321	It is.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u322	I'm very pleased. So this law has had an article - 14 if I remember correctly - for health centres, that is, for primary health care. This article had at least thirteen responsibilities to do. I say 'at least' because more could be added by ministerial decision. Not only have others been added over time, but it has dehydrated to such an extent that in extreme cases it has come to be prescribing and nothing else. Not all health centers, but in extreme case that's all. Therefore, in mental health, from half the 1980s, when the images of Leros and so on, there has been enough money for the reform. The money was arranged, he went to the others, and the reform went to the bells and twenty years later something began to happen. This is the value of today's effort that does not complete the whole organisation's problem, but lays the foundations and shows the direction in which we are going. And we still have to move faster. I would like to say other things about the positive side of the law. I will, however, stand by some of them. One of them is AEMY. What was AEMY and what is AEMY? It's an anonymous Health Units Company. It was done to solve a problem in the Olympic Games. It's a tool in the hands of a government. The previous government or co-government had AEMY and had decided to sell the building for the hospital of Santorini to a private person. And according to information on the island, the buyer from America had been found to take it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u323	For a hotel. Say it all!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u324	If the hospital's sold, I don't care if they're gonna make it a hotel, or if they're gonna cut it. What do I care? You're right, Paul, but I don't care. It was to be sold. The government's changing, the administration of AEMY changes and instructs it to open a hospital, which very easily the WTO trade union organization, which I think had never fallen to such a low level of policy reliance...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u325	And vulgarity.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u326	And vulgarity! That's right, Dear Minister. The WTO trade union organization, therefore, said in the House, in the Senate Hall, that it is for the traditional goat to laugh. It is not the MEMORIAL HOSPITAL, of course, but should anyone who blames it there and find the thirteen women who were born for the first time in Santorini - two of them in caesarean - and say to them: "Excuse me, did he laugh at the traditional goat when you were born in two delivery rooms in the hospital?" To go find the five, ten heartwalkers who had a heart attack and were treated there and tell them that this is to laugh at the old goat. He's laughing at the old-fashioned goat with what people call it. I have two, three little remarks. And to tell you that I'm not only talking as a Member of the island region, but as a doctor who's lived all levels and institutions of health, from the rural, from the IKA and most of the hospitals, thirty-five. It is wrong to allow doctors to move indiscriminately from the region to the centre, because the region is affected, like the centre, by a lack of managers. They will be able to come - firstly - after going to the province to come, not the ones who are there and went 15 years ago in their knowledge. Secondly, they can't go in any organic position. They've got to get quantum. For me they must qualify for both Athens and Thessaloniki - they have this right - but in a position that the Ministry or the Ministry will arrange for, in personal positions. Because you understand the protection we offer in the system. However, the opposite must also be possible for doctors in the centre to be transferred to the region. It is a proposal that I made for the first time in 1997 and has not been accepted. A doctor qualified by the centre can go to any district, even in a personal position as well. I would like to say about history with the doctors of the former IKA, the primary fund returning, that we should become as tolerant as we can. It's not good if there's two or three medical speeds. But if we give them a quarter or a semester of what is provided for by the law and attract - see - two hundred doctors in primary school, we will also relieve the hospitals. It is very important in what climate all these changes are taking place. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Your Honor. Mr. Gregorakos, an excellent colleague and a doctor, the first day in the Committee on Social Affairs, said the party on drugs was a memorandum. I don't remember if you said one or the first. A memorial! Inside a plundering of wealth accumulated with the sweat of the Greek people, this government came to set up this system on its feet. And it makes a start from the bottom up and not from the roof down, as they blame us. When we all realize what phase we have received this system and how we will deliver it at the end of the four-year period, then they will understand that we are on the right track. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u327	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Athanasios Papadopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u328	After the speech of Nikos, Asterios, George Caisa, on the morning of the Jufi Partope, but also of many other good colleagues, I would say all the wings, and in the plenary and during the discussions in the Committee on Social Affairs, I think it is understood that the draft law we are discussing is another link in a large chain of interventions that tend to resurrect the health system after the seven leap years following the Memorandum Policies, in a great effort to complete a health system, which also includes what has been done and which is planned to be done. All these issues have also been raised with remarks. In particular, for the organisation of the primary health system, I have heard Mr Mitsotakis say that it is also a great intervention for the New Democracy. We have already announced for a long time that we have been working on a large section, a great reform of the primary health system, which includes what the units of the PES have given, the organisation of the primary health centers, and our new intervention with local health units, which, once it has been completed, will be a very important intervention, which will complete what the ESS law has provided for. Of course, these must be accompanied by the fact that we are also planning to organise emergency care, a matter which concerns both the self-employed emergency departments and the official organisation in the health system and the non-life-threatening incidents that the primary system can make. And along with e-Government in health and with the new supply system and much more, it means that for this government what is being done in health is a privileged place. So we understand some kind of reaction that has already been mentioned, about what the WTO is doing. What's he doing? It is even wrong for workers in the health sector, who are supposed to represent them. Because most of what is being done in the health sector, along with government efforts, is being done with heroic efforts by nurses, laboratory staff, administrative staff, doctors who think they are doing a job and which we want to complete together with all the other areas we want to do. Here I would like to focus on how we see full and exclusive employment, which we also put on doctors who left with a decision of the Government of New Democracy, Adoris Georgiadis. Two thousand five hundred weakened the system and many of them want to continue the effort. The possibility of taking a second chance gives all of us the opportunity to stand and what we want to do with full and exclusive employment as a whole in the health system. I would say that we should make use of this intervention now by the Ministry of Health, so that we can study that for university doctors it is not understood that they do not have full and exclusive employment, especially when we know that all their other tasks are made difficult by the fact that they want to do private work. Of course, for military doctors too. So we must make use of it at this time, give the second chance and be able to see all the other issues, along with the psychiatric reform, which is an integrated plan. Here we see the important changes made to the organisation and administration of mental health services, part of the psychiatric reform. It is, however, an intervention which makes it easier to have psychiatrists and pediatric patients, as it is financed with EUR 51 million. In particular, pediatricians will also help in organising special treatment. Because this is also a task, which we have before us. We see what EPYY wants to do. It is an overall issue for which the government will present its final design. What is being done with the expertise centres for rare and complex diseases, which are set out here, and what we are doing to prevent, to diagnose and to treat, with innovative and high-cost medicines by providers, must ensure respect for patients' rights and the protection of personal rights. Also to see specialist diagnostic laboratories, integration into European reference networks. These two major interventions, the psychiatric reform and the centres on rare diseases are accompanied, as we have seen, by other provisions relating to financing centres for dependency prevention, the promotion of psychosocial health - a matter which concerns all - the National Documentation and Information Centre for Drugs, the National Archive of Neoplasms, the National Centre for Public Health. Mr Manius has already talked about what AEMY is doing, what we are doing with RAN, which we are transforming into a public body. I would like to close up a little by the fact that we have so far made other important contributions to speed up the recruitment process for hospitals. The ministers will present what we have done so far in recruitment and what we are planning to do, giving numbers. However, what we have done so far is speeding up the process, specifically enabling us to deal with the islands, with the difficult regions. They also allow us to deal with something that we have to do with further legislative intervention. In other words, where we see that there are still gaps in organic positions, for which no doctor has submitted his supporting documents for two consecutive years, this may also be the case for those who come from the difficult areas, so that you do not worry, ladies and gentlemen, that they will become directors of the 'Evangelism'. They are doctors who have completed five years, who want to give them a chance to be an incentive for the younger generation of doctors to submit their papers and have doctors in the islands, in the difficult areas. Otherwise, if they're trapped there, there's no stimulus. That is what intervention is doing. To supplement this intervention in our overall sense. Mobility for the doctors of the ESS, as is done throughout the public, is done for nurses and others too, but it is designed to really fill gaps. I want to close with one example. The only dentist at Trikalon Hospital - we had four doctors and we stayed with one, who comes from Volos Hospital - for four years continuously takes moves and distractions. We don't do position notices. We think we have other priorities. Let us see, then, the possibility of such cases - and anesthetists, pediatricians, cardiologists - who, from the centre, want to go into empty organic positions in the region, but also for mobility where there are still empty organic positions to enable the health system, which we want to complete in all possible ways, to be an overall effort for which we will be proud to be doing as a House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u329	Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u330	Mr President, I ask for the floor on personal grounds, because Mr Deputy Minister for Health mentioned this in my absence.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u331	Mr. Georgiades, don't get into the point of staff, let's finally see about the staff themselves.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u332	He mentioned my name, saying...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u333	This is in morningtime. I didn't lead in the morning. So I cannot judge if you are right about the staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u334	Do you want me to read you what was said to judge it?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u335	But I cannot deny you the opportunity to defend yourself if you believe that something has been said against you. But from the outset, I want to tell you, because it's obvious that whatever you say will be answered by Mr. Polakis and that makes sense...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u336	No objections.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u337	I would therefore like to say that as far as my own effort is concerned, I will not allow a new duel to take place at this time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u338	I won't even look at Mr. Polakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u339	Thank you very much. Because, you know, we're in the middle of a very interesting bill that's being discussed. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u340	The Deputy Minister for Health, Mr Paulakis, in his attempt to justify the judicial sewing of his decision to illegally dismantle hospital governors - I would remind the House that the Council of State with an irrevocable decision condemned Mr Polakis and his action - he said that my office made the choice of governors from an alphabetical list of 4-2-1. I would therefore like to inform the House that, under the office of my predecessor, Mr. Andreas Lykourenzou, a law was passed and an open invitation was made. When I took over the Ministry of Health, the relevant committee set up with the participation of the Vice-President at the time of the AACC proceeded with a pre-selection of governors and then the same committee, with the participation of the AACC, made the final selection of the governors. There was no choice from any alphabetical list, as Mr Paulakis thinks. It was simply in alphabetical order that those who had applied for and had passed the pre-selection procedure, which was only to check whether they fulfilled the typical characteristics of the law, the necessary degrees, that is to say, and the necessary pre-service. Subsequently, with the participation of the Secretary-General of Health and the Vice-President of the SAEP, I repeat, with the participation of the Vice-President of the SAEP, he proceeded with the final selection of the governors. All that Mr Paulakis said earlier was a defensive line of the Ministry of Health in the Council of State and rejected by the Council of State as false. Now we're going to the point. Mr Paulakis said that for the first time in their day, a comprehensive assessment of governors was carried out and even a two-tier assessment was made, which is why I was surprised by the decision of the Council of State, which did not understand how important they were doing. In order not to blame many, because I do not know any other cases - I know, however, at least two - two governors, Mr Georgopoulos from Ioannina and Mr Gregopoulou from 'Evangelism', they have received a written positive assessment from Mr Paulis's committee and have nevertheless been replaced after a few days. That's why they've been to the courts and they're asking for extra compensation. I say this so that no one in this House thinks that a non-party review has been carried out, that is, they will drive us crazy. We would not have discussed this, Mr President, if two things had not happened: firstly, if the Council of State, which is a mess for Mr Polakis personally, had not happened, and secondly, if this decision of the Council of State, Mr Polakis, which you are smiling, did not happen.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u341	And what do we do?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u342	To cry where you voted for them. This is a decision that gives rise to the Greek public huge compensation problem. Because all these people, who are now laughing and moving your head, will go to the courts with this decision of the Council of State, will pay all wages, who have not paid them the Ministry, because they have kicked them out earlier than their contract, they will be paid in their own hands and they will claim and of course they will receive each one separately from the court and any moral harm they put on the court.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u343	Do you give a line?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u344	I'm closing, Mr. President. We had all warned Mr Polakis that they would happen before they were thrown away. Because the illegality was so obvious.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u345	Mr. Georgiadis, you obviously know that these do not complement the staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u346	I ask this House: will Mr Paulakis pay these compensations of EUR hundreds of thousands of euros cumulatively from his pocket or will he charge them to the Greek taxpayer?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u347	Mr. Georgiadis, all this does not make up the staff. As far as staff are concerned, you said so at the beginning. That's enough.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u348	In short, Mr. Paulakis lured the government and the Greek State into a procedure which harmed the public and which the Council of State considered illegal. Only apologies can Mr. Paulis say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u349	Mr. Colleague, you're written to talk in a row. You're on the list to talk. Is it possible to speak twice? Mr. Polakis, you have the floor. I would like to ask you as soon as possible, and only as possible, what Mr Georgiadis has said about the staff. Please very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u350	I would like to reply to the Vice President of the New Democracy, who has taken over many contractors lately, that we know that you were sad at the masses that we considered that a left political plan for reconstructing, reconstructing and storing at his feet of the public health system, which our Government faithfully serves, and I and Andreas Xanthos together, since October 2015, could not be served by the people who from an alphabetical list that the committee provided you with...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u351	The court said that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u352	Don't interrupt me. You are proud of your urban modesty. Don't interrupt me. From a list of alphabetical order, then, that the committee that you set up... Do you have any ticks? Why do you do your hand like that every time?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u353	I make sense to the president. Is it forbidden?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u354	Do I? Look me in the eye. It has, of course, been shown by dozens of publications at that time that this distribution - and if you look at the political past of the people you have placed - was done with 4-2-1. We, for the first time in history, have done such a process of evaluating the new governors that you really compare and put on one band the ones that we have chosen from the other band of those you have chosen. From there on, the decision of the Council of State, which has recently brought up the pace of its work in relation to the recent past, does not produce practical results, because the mandate of these governors has expired. From there on, there is a long legal way, as the long way was to the judiciary and for those who had resigned on Alekos Papadopoulos and their contract had been terminated by the next government, yours then, the first Karamanlis government. It was a long way from the judiciary and from the level of compensation and so on. We, Mr Georgiadis, if necessary, after a decade, when we will again be at the wheel of the country, if we decide on the courts to compensate these people, we will have the opportunity to compensate them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u355	From your pocket?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u356	We'll compensate them, because we'll have collected the money you've spent on CDC, the money you've spent to a number of companies that slowly come out and have an avalanche of revelations.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u357	All right, Minister, you're done, because they're now opening up new personally.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u358	No, Mr President, I am asking for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u359	No way.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u360	Can I finish my sentence, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u361	Minister, you have opened three other issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u362	No, I didn't open any matters. Did I talk about a thing? So we will have reconstructed and set up the public health system at its feet and, if there are final decisions then, we will clearly implement them. From that point on, I repeat that the Greek people have also decided - because the judges judge - the decision of the Council of State with the deep democratic selection of directors, the request of the educational movement since 1974, which has been unconstitutional, when the way they themselves elect their own judges is a corresponding way of universal suffrage. We're all judging.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u363	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u364	Mr. Georgiadis, what exactly do you want now? You raised a point, the Minister answered.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u365	There's nothing personal or anything! There's a list of speakers!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u366	Wait a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u367	Let me tell you something. I gave you the floor on personal grounds. You referred to the staff. You accompanied the staff with a number of other comments. Mr Paulakis responded to the staff you have raised and referred to a number of other issues. Is that how we're going from now on?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u368	No, I'll be done in a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u369	No minute, you have time to speak! In his speech, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u370	What's not? This is where justice has been determined today!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u371	What a situation that is!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u372	Just a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u373	Mr Colleagues, please make it easier for the Bureau.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u374	No, he's a speaker, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u375	What 'no', Mr. Comrade? What do you want? Do you have a management of the process? Let me handle the process! Mr Georgiadis, after four speakers it is your turn to speak. One minute, I promise you I will give it to you during your speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u376	All right, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u377	Thank you very much. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u378	Thank you, Mr President. We are discussing a bill today, which seems not to justify its title.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u379	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Kegeroglu has the floor. Respect my colleague!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u380	Thank you, Mr President. So I said that the bill does not in the end justify its title, except in its last sentence with the 'other provisions' or 'other provisions', because, beyond seven - eight articles, which deal with the subject, and for which we have a positive view, because these are issues which we have also dealt with in the past, and there is a need to regulate, there is a great deal of information on other issues, which deal with issues and, above all, settled persons and cases. This whole framework, obviously, is forbidden, so that one can support this bill at first only, as I have said, in the individual articles, which we consider to be positive and for which we have already placed ourselves. The issue in general health and, in particular, primary health care, as has been raised many times by almost all the wings, needs to be strengthened and progressed, beyond the introduction of the procedures and those provided for by the GNSS Act, for the primary health system and obviously through support to both staff and geographical expansion. So while the Government and the Ministry of Health are talking about an upgrade plan for the public health system and its services to the public, we are surprised to see an amendment which concerns a serious issue, but as an incomplete and incomplete amendment. It concerns the setting-up of local health units, which will support, as mentioned in the report, the provision of primary care, which will support, in other words, the ETUC. Only it comes from the outset, without budget, costs and procedures, and it seems and effectively overthrows the Government's claim that it is planning seriously and has serious options for the reconstruction of the public health system. However, if you notice that they are all exceptions to recruitment procedures, an exception from here, an exception from there, and at the end of the day, it says that this is all done from Union funds. Of course, we also have the report from the General Accounting Office, which refers to one to one of the amendments and, when it has to say whether the rents have a cost or not, it also says that it does not bear the general government, it is not the state budget. Thus, it would be worthy of research to tell us the General Accounting Office of the State by what method buildings are rented, without any cost for the State. Because, as far as I know, they can be covered by a programme and payroll and insurance contributions and functionally. I mean a European programme under the ESDP. However, as a condition under Law 4413, we have an Act of Accession and, of course, in this recital or the report of the General Accounting Office of the State there is no Act of Accession, either in the "Administrative Reform" programme invoked in the report, namely the Operational Programme for Public Sector Reform, or, of course, in the EMEA or in general, in the European Social Fund. There's nothing to be said. It is an amendment which, of course, introduces on an existing issue the establishment of local health units, as it calls them, but it is in the air. The question to the leadership is this: So sloppy is public health support policy, so that this serious issue can come with a late amendment at the last minute? Is the government's planning so serious that it does not even mention instruments of integration in either the Administrative Reform Programme or in any programme financed by the European Social Fund? Answers are requested. I am also referring to two amendments which we have tabled. One is the continued operation of the poverty-supply structures. Since February 28, eight hundred and fifty workers serving through social grocery stores, social pharmacies and other poverty - dealing structures have been made redundant, some ten thousand of our fellow citizens who need it. Unfortunately, the extension granted ended on 28 February and no new ones were given. Recruitment in the new structures, which will be financed by the new NSRF, is being delayed. From the two hundred fifty notices so far, five of them have been issued under the objection procedure and all that is planned to come out of the final result there is no chance that they will work before June. What will happen until June, Mr. Petersburg, you represent the Ministry of Labour, even though it is not your responsibility? By June will social grocery stores, social pharmacies and other structures be closed? I think that, as has been done with an amendment brought to us here by Mrs Fotio a long time ago and extended from 31-12-2016 until the end of February, the operation of these structures must be done at least for a quarter even with the following sect: where the new structure begins, the old structure must be stopped. That is what I think is acceptable to everyone. I would therefore ask for the amendment to be accepted under a general number of 951 and a special 62, which concerns the continuation of the work of poverty structures.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u381	Thank you very much, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u382	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u383	Mr Theocharis Theocharis, an Independent MEP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u384	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, with the current draft law of the Ministry of Health, the attempt to relaunch mental health structures, with a view to so-called 'psycho-medical reform', is rather without a substantial controversy. Why is the situation today in the multipathic area of psychiatric support structures? The demolition effort stayed in the middle. However, institutions are also encouraged. See, for example, the recent video that came in the light of publicity, which records incidents of patients sitting in beds with straps, mainly due to the inability to build specially designed rooms. This practice in 2017 is a flagrant violation of European legislation and human rights. Of course, this measure is an extreme measure, which should not be taken. Obviously this violation can lead to the condemnation of our country and the imposition of a fine by the European Court of Human Rights. But how did we get here? How did the decommissioning stay in the middle and the hospitals didn't close? Because we ran out of money. It has been eaten 1,4 billion and we have come to have no effect and cannot close the asylums. Another good idea that turned into one of the many parties. Another reason why, in this step, we are talking with good ideas and thick words and, in practice, the Greek people do not see a solution to their problems. That's why we're removed and no one can believe us. That is why many other parties have to answer to previous governments. But what are you doing? You haven't done anything for two years. We have unjustified delays, while dealing with hospitalisations in intensive care units, unconstitutional forced resignations in CEDEFOP, but also changes in commanders in hospitals, so that those who have prosecuted and now pay double and triple hospital governors, yours, namely, incompetence parties, which costs. This is our destiny, not to change the way we operate. Today, with this bill, we have no plan, no strategy. Are we going to have institutions or not? Do we want to have asylums or not? Is politics good or not? You're not telling us. You are not telling us whether you believe in decommissioning or whether we will have an asylum support policy. We'll temporarily take her out, and God has it. It is now enough with our “the bread that you give us this day.” Think a little more strategically, even in this area, we don't have foreigners, memoranda, ordinary bamboo over our head. However, we seem to have the bad of our roots. And to the young, however, we have the right to believe that this is full of ruffles. Mr. Kegeroglu spoke about this a moment ago. With Article 25, incorporate unskilled doctors into the ESS. With Article 26 you give a second chance to doctors who left in 2014 to choose to be full-time and full-time. By Article 48, you allow the secondments to "AEMY SA", with the wages that apply to this company and not to the State. You're doing balls and ruffles, instead of stopping distractions, instead of going to what the ESS wants. What does the O.R. want? He wants flexibility in doctors' employment relationships. I have an example of hearing from a colleague. Mr. Gregorakos is here, who said so. Instead of doing at Sparta Hospital outpatients one afternoon a week, ten private pediatricians are paid 50 euros for the examination, the hospital has no one in the afternoon. Your child's getting sick. You put it in the C.E.D. and take it to Tripoli. And there's the same thing. In the end he ends up taking it to Athens and fortunately finds his health. The cost of 1,000 euros, instead of giving 50 euros and the child to find health in Sparta with more security, because this will not be delayed by all this movement. Ladies and gentlemen, we have another bill on which you are looking at unnecessary amendments. Let me refer to two of them. Mrs. Ahchioglu is trying to correct the unexecutions of the Katrugalo Law. We've had ELSTAT for nine months to tell you how you made a factor in your mind and your imagination and you whistle indifferently. How much analgesia when this unnecessary delay does not allow pensions to be issued? How can you look at these retireds in the eyes? What else can we wait for? Perhaps we should wait for the other amendment that the Ministry of National Defence is taking over the social work of the Ministry of Migration Policy and repairing the buildings needed to deal with the refugee crisis. In fact, this is unspeakable handshake. I would also like to say that I support the amendment on the naturalisation of the descendants of Jews of Greek origin. It's the least we have to do today on the anniversary of that dam that day that started the first train from Thessaloniki to Auschwitz. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say a few words on the current issues. Negotiations: You're asking for something from Mrs. Merkel and Mrs. Lagard. They will decide in absentia without even being able to observe. You can't even be in the same room. When these are ready, we have announced that we will take the measures. That's why they told us they'd be ready in May, in May, we said so. In fact, the Prime Minister saw Mrs Merkel the day before yesterday and said to him: 'Maybe we meet in April'. She went out and said it in the interview, that she's more optimistic and we'll solve them in April. Does he not understand that this is how he is stripped of that we have no place in the negotiation, we have no reason to wait and just wait for us to dress up the measures we have already agreed with what they give us for the debt? Countermeasures: You tell us that you will get a euro for every single euro austerity and that 3.5% primary surplus has already caught it. So with the 2% new measures you bring you're saying we're actually gonna catch 5.5% austerity. The new target of the SYRIZA Government - ANEL for the primary surplus is 5.5%. Let's tell the Greek people that this government of continuing austerity shredded 3.5% and did it 5.5%. Only then will you have the right to take it back and the measures are really along with the countermeasures. That's your austerity, and that's why you'll answer for it. Why would who pay her? 'Nobody' is the answer. Like Hoja, you've learned a little bit of your donkey not to eat, but he'll die for you, because the economy is sinking. Revenues were saved only from the dividend of the Bank of Greece in February. As long as you're late, the negotiating position will get worse and you'll get other measures. The liquidity is gone. The ELA and the red loans again took the climb, as in 2015. Spring of growth, as a new reviem for the dream of SYRIZA - ANEL, gave its place in the autumn of ELSTAT. Ladies and gentlemen, your creation, Mr. Varoufakis, yesterday dropped your glove. He requested a committee of inquiry and a special court. What are you afraid of? Why don't you accept his challenge? Why don't you throw light on what happened in 2015? Why don't you tell the Greek people why he's paying today the broken ones at that time? To finish with the stories and the drachma fantasies that propagandas and prepares amateurs, like I first denounced from this one the Stepma. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the reports and studies prove that. Children and weak people have paid for the crisis and are still paying for it. That's not what you're supporting. When I told you in December to support the two thousand children who don't have one employee in their family, you whistled indifferently. You must answer to those who you have betrayed. Because in the end, unfortunately, and I say this with sadness, you are the heir of the old political system, because you took the wrath of the people and made it hope. You took hope and made it despair and resignation. That's how you passed the measures they brought us here.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u385	Mr. Comrade, finish it up. We're at nine and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u386	I shall conclude with that, Mr President. Mostly because with immoral governance and the Phenomena of IPTO, DESFA, the lost money of the refugee, direct assignments and recruitment and rumors, you are entitled to all the mistakes of the past. In other words, you are the last pole of post-population and will be judged by the Greek people when the time of the crisis comes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u387	Thank you. The Minister has the floor, Mr Petropoulos, who wants to speak on the amendment. Minister, please be in five minutes, not more, so we can get it done better.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u388	Thank you, Mr President. I'll be very brief. Our amendment refers first of all to the rate at which pensions will be issued.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u389	You're telling us the number of the amendment to mark it here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u390	He's now with Articles 97, 98 and 99 in the bill. The debate on whether we are late or not is inconsistent with the index. When a hundred and sixty thousand pensions have been pending in the past, and these pensions will be repaid as a whole in 2017, what is the point to discuss whether in the months between 1-2017 we have or do not have the type necessary? I reiterated when I presented the relevant provisions to the Senate, that this provision is a provision in international literature. Communication, mail, with ELSTAT began as soon as the law was passed. It took all this time to find the right solution. It has been proposed and adopted. We don't have to talk about this any more. I have already made the legislative improvements to the right condition to be formulated in the relevant provision, because we were not talking about adjustment, but about an increase. In order to be consistent with the relevant provisions, we are now repeating it. It is also a recommendation made by the Court of Auditors and we agree, although the consumer price index is not negative all this time, except for a period after 2014. So it leads, anyway, to a positive pension result and in no case will it result in a reduction. On the contrary, it will bring about a better pension return for this guy. To clarify quite clearly the issue of the relevant provision, because I have heard some Members put it, I have to say that this time limit, that for a period from 2016 to 2020 or 2021 - I do not remember exactly - will be the consumer price index and then it will be the wage change index, it will in no way affect pensions in any other way. In the same way, it brings about the result obtained. The first period of time will be for all on the basis of the consumer price index, for the later period will be in accordance with the wage change index, as provided for in a joint ministerial decision. The next article, with the number 98 in the bill, refers to insurance cover, with the information that all those social groups, who lacked medical care, if there was no relevant provision in the law extending insurance information, to have full health and medical care benefits. We are doing so here, and let me not mention here by group what the critical cases are, are as many previous provisions as our own. Finally, in accordance with Article 99, we are regulating the issue of the contribution paid to the welfare state by those insured for the single currency, because there were cases where the relevant contribution in question was provided in euro, elsewhere, and indeed with asymmetrical variations. As the rule is the same, we put this provision in place in general, by correcting with almost legislative improvement an omission which might lead to the abolition of insurance contributions from employers. With this legislative improvement, we bring in this provision and the contributions paid by employers, which are certainly not abolished, but are maintained. It is a number of provisions which are also laid down in the statutes of individual bodies. Finally, with regard to this proposal from the Democratic Group of the European People's Party - PASOK - DIMAR, which concerns farmers who, in the proposal for this amendment, should have no reduction in pensions, as well as those who take up duties in local government or elsewhere, I shall speak briefly. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] I shall conclude with that, Mr President. For some farmers I have reiterated that those who are retired until 31 December 2016 have no cut in their pensions, whenever their income is created, whether from agricultural production, fishing, livestock or from subsidies or subsidies. It is this time period after January that we have to see, and I say that unfortunately the farmer is lacking, to see what the best solution is. For other farmers want there to be a cut, while others do not want there to be. There is a serious issue, which we will soon resolve in this year. It would therefore be really premature for any debate that the amendment on this matter seeks to introduce and we do not accept it in this respect, as we do not accept it on the second part, on the calculation of the incomes of those who take on unpaid and unpaid duties, whether it is in local government or in other unions. There is no need for such an amendment, because our law refers to an income created by an activity undertaken after the entry into force of the law. It is not business with financial results to carry out social tasks, in the name of such responsibilities, which are, moreover, the responsibilities that have been assumed since the entry into force of the law. It would be a mistake to do that because it has no legal influence. As the law has done, we have exhausted it and studied it. As I had promised the mayors, there is no reason for that. Besides, the amendment, like the mayors themselves, has requested, is mentioned if anyone does not keep an income from that purpose and, if income arises, he resigns from his collection, whether it is wages or wages. There is therefore no reason to talk about regulation.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u391	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u392	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u393	Mr Pollack, would you like to intervene on the amendment? Do you want to take your speaking time together?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u394	Then.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u395	As you wish. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u396	I am anxious to listen to my fellow Members and to speak, to resolve all the issues they are going to raise.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u397	Mr. Georgiade, I assume you're waiting.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u398	No, no. Mr. Economou, who is our counterpart, having a responsibility in the field of health. I guess Mr. Economou is Mr. Blondie's bond.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u399	All right, we're making some jokes. It's okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u400	This is the amendment with a general number of 962 and a special 70, which has some arrangements that are our obligation to the workers of the system to implement. In particular, with paragraph 1, we are extending for a year the payment of the uniform allowance to the crew of the National Direct Aid Centre, as was done last year. It's under the approved budget. It is the way in which the crews and rescuers of the EMCDDA are provided every year with the necessary uniforms, so that they can do their work safely. The second paragraph corrects an abstention in an older bill, which has to do with the hourly compensation of employees employed in cyclical hours, night working days and on Sunday and exceptional days. It reintroduces the rate of hourly pay to 60% and 75%, respectively, rather than to what was anticipated at that time for those employed with a circular hour, 40% and 55%. It was a government commitment to the workers of public hospitals, which we are implementing with this amendment. Also, with Article 4 - 3 - I will withdraw, I will then submit a legislative improvement - we give approval to expenditure up to 28 February 2017 to the hospitals in the country, so that they can also pay back what they have not done so far, from when there was legalisation of expenditure by 30 October last year. The hospitals have money to pay off all the debts they've created. That is why they come out with a cash surplus - no matter how much the Anti-Population does not accept it - EUR 35 million for 2016, with a deficit of 935 on 31 December 2015. In paragraph 5, too, we regulate the issue of CSR newspapers. Doctors of the ESS of all grades, pharmacists, chemistry, biochemicals, clinical chemistry, biologists, hospital physics, who are serving in the CSR, are required in an on-call. They've been doing them so far, but this whole process has been in the air and we've been retroactively regulating it - since 1 January 2014 - with the legislative improvement we've been doing. In fact, the ECHR is now taking a very big role in the whole system of blood donation in our country. Of course, I announce that the tender for blood serological testing has been completed, which reduces expenditure from EUR 26 million to EUR 5 million for exactly the same work. I would also like to say that, with the legislative improvement, we are withdrawing paragraph 3, because we are seeing - and it is not to legislate every week - a subject. There are a few very few hospitals in the country - one, two of them have not been included in this amendment, as it has been tabled, and we cannot bring this week - to close the wounds of unpaid newspapers, whether regular or additional, after the law that we have passed since November 2015 on the use of money coming to the hospitals by the European Agency for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products - which the European Agency for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products is paying for hospitals - so that it can pay newspapers on the basis of approved news programmes. So, if we do not have a legislature now and another in a few days - because there are two more, three hospitals we hope will be in the last, because we had arranged a number of others a while ago - this article is withdrawn by legislative improvement and will come back next week with all the hospitals concerned with this problem, whether for 2014 or for 2015. I'm tabling it for the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u401	Thank you, Minister. My colleague, Mr Dimitrios Rizzos, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u402	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the process of reforming the organisation of mental health services, which began several years ago, was aimed at providing an integrated and decentralised service. Its core was the institutionalization of mental health areas. Today, by evaluating and evaluating their work, we are trying to relaunch the processes, by creating the regional councils. By exploiting the administrative web of regional health services, we are effectively decentralising administration with the coexistence of recipients, mental patients and their families, who are supposedly interested in the fate of the reform more than we are, with the scientists and general officials of the area of mental health who have been offering years in this area. It is a reform that its vision is to advance the gradual transformation of asylum into Community care structures, primary care. I think that these are the principles that we stand for, and we have a start and an end. What is the role of AEMY? Its role in taking responsibility for the operation of structures which, for reasons of failure or final judicial decisions, have ceased to function. These are mentally ill patients who are staying at home. At the moment with this bill they are covered by a public structure. At the same time, monitoring and cost and quality evaluation mechanisms are being established for the services provided. The Medical Committee for Rare Diseases and Diseases and Experiments Centers for Rare and Comprehensive Diseases is an institution that is first organized, enabling the people of the Panhellenic Spanish Sickness Association, whose long-standing presence was essential. It has been a great help in establishing this entity, and now it finds a right. At this point I would like to pay tribute to a colleague who is not one of us, Panagiotis Kontoleon, who has helped this family union from the beginning. I think that we should at some point also pay tribute to these areas, but also to our gratitude. In conclusion, I would like to refer to the incentives given to boost public health in fertile and inaccessible areas. So far, at least, we have the financial support of doctors, those responsible for the service of the countryside, we have the extension of recruitment time to subsidiary doctors and now, in accordance with Article 29, we will have the possibility for medical staff who provide their services in these areas for a five-year period to be able to move to selection places throughout Greece, as well as an organic position. It is also facilitated in matters relating to the co-responsibility of the spouse or wife in a particular area. All these are those actions and those efforts that are being made in times of budgetary sluggishness, to create, as far as possible, better working conditions for medical staff themselves and for the population of these regions. On the basis of all the things I have said before, I am voting in favour of the draft law and I urge everyone to vote in favour of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u403	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. My colleague, Mr Mitafidis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u404	Ladies and gentlemen, many health fighters have spoken from this Step and I think they have exhausted the issue from the point of view of the substance of this bill. I think that very useful remarks have been made, apart from colleagues and fellow Members of the Chamber of Deputies, and from Opposition and I think that the political leadership of the Ministry of Health will take them seriously. I would like to welcome the fact that he has almost had universal acceptance, but, of course, not of the Lakeemones, but of the deniers of the Holocaust and those who flee to be descendants, that they originate from the sowing of defeated Nazism and, of course, who are protesting on the streets, saying they are hiots and battalions. I am referring, of course, to the amendment we have brought to an existing law since 2011, which gives the parents of the Holocaust victims the opportunity to acquire Greek citizenship, because, as many times have told me - because I know them personally - they are very saddened by the fact that they return to their homes as tourists and not as the genes of the Thessalonians of the Greek Jews. I would like to say to you that it was heard by other Members here - as today, unfortunately, they began to be displaced in the camps of death. Like this morning, he left the Old Train Station of Thessaloniki a mission, in sealed wagons intended for the transport of animals, with two thousand eight hundred Thessalonians. Some of them died on the journey of death to Auschwitz. The amendment is, as has been said before, an elementary tribute. I would like to say, on this occasion, that we had another sad anniversary yesterday. It has, of course, been too many years. As yesterday, a deadly, literally deadly agreement was signed between Nazi Germany and Fascist Italy, according to which, apart from the costs of the occupation forces, the Greek people should also pay a loan, which, according to the estimates of the State's General Accounting Office, is also included in the Parliament's report on the performance of German debts - with today's estimates, reaches 278,5 billion euros. This was, of course, never attributed, beyond a first dose, to Hitler's signature. I say these, inviting those on Sundays who are in Thessaloniki or near Thessaloniki, to go together in the course of memory for our wronged compatriots, from the Freedom Square, where they began their drama with the degrading capsules in 1942, at the Old Railway Station, to honor their memory and demand, of course, seventy-four years later, and the moral and material justice of these wrongdoers, as our country claims. I would like, ladies and gentlemen, to conclude with an excerpt from the prologue in German of a book in Greek since 1993. This day is to be imposed. It's one of the top books written for the German occupation. A well-known historian, Mark Mazar, has written it. Recently, last summer, it was released in German. I read this because it is not only the fact itself, but also because it is also a very serious assessment for Europe that some, the Europe of many speeds, the Europe of inequalities, is going to celebrate its sixty-year-olds on 25 March. The most disgusting achievement of the'Stability and Growth Pact' was that they killed Nazism and the far right in all the countries of Europe. We have the misfortune, of course, to have it within the Greek Parliament. I read: "The idea that the states of Europe can escape the atrocities of the 20th century towards a better future in the early 1940s was a dream. Today it looks like it's naturally different. But precisely because we today have a clearer cynical view of Europe, as this is presented to us, it is perhaps the right opportunity to return back to the world of the 1940s, in which there was a nation confronted with a nation that was further destroyed by an already poor world, the world of Greek land workers, farmers and factory workers." I dedicate this to those who are still insisting on anti-European.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u405	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Georgiadis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u406	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, I'm starting at the beginning of the bill before I tell the staff who have been left beforehand. You have a bill on mental health. You know that our country has been starting a major psychiatric reform for many years. I'm not saying it all went great. I agree with Mr Manda and with what he has said from time to time. Yeah, they didn't. This bill, in fact, except for the recommendation of all these committees that you put in place, the title that it says about mental health and all this great reform that we have been committed to doing since Papadopoulos - I am not saying now about the Lykurenz Pact with Andor, I say from Papadopoulos, that it is the previous governments who have not done so! - on the substance of any point in mental reform? All right, we're doing committees, sectoral here, but is there any sign of mental reform going on? My opinion, and I speak with great openness, is that it does nothing on the substance. All right, you're gonna do all these committees too. I know that in the Left's culture the idea of committees is widespread. Make them up. Outcome from what you're doing here, I honestly don't see. Now I'm going to something that I'm a little more interested in. Because now, if I start taking one of the committees you have set up, it doesn't matter. But let's go to the famous Article 26. It is an article that has a lot to do with it. It concerns the doctors of the former IKA, the EEAS, who had to choose between the employment of the doctor or employment in the public primary health system. You make arrangements for those doctors who have judicial decisions and who work on the basis of these judicial decisions. Mr. Xanthe, I need a question for you. When I brought you, sitting in your own position, the bill for the PEDY and you and SYRIZA personally then adopted all the protests of the medical clubs in the country. I would remind you that at that time this reform has caused a very big conflict. You personally as the head of SYRIZA, along with your colleague, and very sympathetic to me, Mr. Zachariadis, who has now gone to LEA, have adopted all the complaints of the then medical associations against the reform and you said "Why are we doing this, it is illegal and should not" and so on. Yes, your right. You're now Minister, and what do you say? You say I finally give a deadline to do what Georgiadis said at the time. But, if you'll excuse me, you were here telling me the exact opposite as SYRIZA. In fact, I remember very well that I criticised you that you cannot say exactly the opposite. So here I am, because you are now coming as Minister, you are doing what we have chosen since 2014, you are not consistent with what you promised doctors then and you are making a procedural settlement, just so the bomb does not dig into your own hands. Okay, I think you're due to an answer to the doctors. If then you were right about what you were telling us in the House, why now don't you allow them to have a parallel private office? If then you were wrong, in what you were saying, why don't you get up bravely and ask for a big apology? I'm going a little bit to Article 48, entitled "Provisions for the Anonymous Society of Health Units ("AEMY S.A."). Here, really, I think you're going to drive us crazy. We have heard from your Deputy Minister - who, with the great fuss he does sometimes overlaps you already, I have to say - how much you blame CEDEFOP, because it had procedures outside public accounting, was the place to do the ruffles. We have that personal dispute too, which we will see how it ends, and I think we'll laugh a lot. But here, what are you doing at AEMY, Mr. Xanthi, exactly? I read it because people don't see us. You say: ‘The AEMY Committee, established in 2004, may, by way of derogation from any other special or general provision, in any case of taking up and continuing operation of a mental health unit, directly conclude individual work contracts with the natural persons employed in that establishment’. The President can do so in an emergency, without having been convened by the board, and if he has to do more and recruit contracts, he says, "in order to draw up the new lease contracts, which are also concluded by way of derogation from any other special or general provision". Now you're going to drive us crazy, and I'm talking very honestly. This procedure, which was in place in the CEDEFOP, and which you have strongly denounced, is an unacceptable procedure. That's why you've been putting CICDs in public accounting since the end of 2015, because you don't want the public to have such a procedure. It's a position I hear, I personally have another view, but you had that view, respectable. But, if these procedures were bothering you at CEDEFOP, wouldn't they bother you at AEMY? How's it going? Or the same procedure must be everywhere, according to public accounting and have public accounting procedures, because you, the good left-wings, want this type of procedure, or, if you can do the procedures at AEMY, obviously you cannot continue all the phrases you were saying before. But to have both of your own, it really doesn't work, Minister. I now come to staff, so I don't abuse more time. First of all, ladies and gentlemen, I have taken the floor earlier and said something very specific, namely that the arguments which Mr Deputy Minister for Health on an alphabetical list, etc. - I do not repeat them - they were put by the Ministry of Health, by the Deputy to a court, in the Council of State, in particular, not in any court, but in the supreme court of the country. They were attacked and judged inadequate by the court. He didn't consider them acceptable to the court. It continues to repeat the same now. You know, in civilized societies, we have no other way of understanding when we disagree. The only way we have is the courts. In any other civilized society, since the court found that what the Deputy Minister said was not correct would have been over. He'd apologize and we'd go down. This is where the tape goes on. However, I made a nominal reference to at least two cases that I know and did not hear them, the transparent declaration of transparency. I said that the committee that he set up, in accordance with the procedures he chose, made for two commanders a positive crisis, namely that they were doing their job well, Mr. Georgopoulos from Ioannina and Mr. Gregopoulou in the 'Evangelism'. Although these people took a positive crisis from Mr Polakis' committee, they were finally fired. I ask, and that's the question, I don't want to hear the tape, which has been played a hundred times that went to court and lost: Why, Mr. Deputy Minister, two people who your committee thought were good, did you finally send them away? Is that an example of corruption? Is that an example of maladministration or is it not? As far as the latter is concerned, I would like to tell you that, first of all, you have taken Mr Vaxevani into your neck. I have to tell you that at the time we're talking, it goes my exotic way to the newspaper 'DOCUMENTO'. The most conservative estimate of my lawyers is that, if Vaxebanes doesn't apologize, I'll get a few tens of thousands of euros from all this story you lured him into writing. If you do not understand what 'clawback' and'rebate' are and why one of your predecessors has taken a decision, you might as well ask me. I'd have explained it to you with paper and pencil, and you wouldn't have had any questions. Unfortunately, you didn't do that and take it to your neck. I am at your disposal to answer every question about my ministerial service. No 65 million euros were donated to the pharmaceutical industry, not 65 cents of the euro. In fact, the company "NOVARTIS", which has become so fashionable under Adonis Georgiadis, had 6 million losses, you know, the first year of the balance sheet - the second year I don't know, has not yet come out - in the Ministry of Xanthos and Kurublis, because Mr. Paulakis came to the end, and a little on Polakis, he had a profit of 19 million. How can it be...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u407	Well, aren't you ashamed? What does the company's balance sheet relate to the presence on the market of the pharmaceutical industry...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u408	You'll answer, you'll see.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u409	Mr Minister, this is not the case.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u410	Mercy! You offend people's intelligence. We're not in good shape!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u411	Since Mr. Xanthos was finally pissed off, well, I'm glad, because, to close...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u412	Mr. Georgiadis, if possible, you'll be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u413	I'm closing, Mr. President. To close, Minister, and I'm glad you woke up, I would like to ask a question I asked from yesterday to Mr. Tsipras and nobody tells me from the Ministry of Health. The only answer that has come is from Mr. Polakis on Mr. Liatsu's show, who said: "We had our minds in the negotiation." So I am asking you, if you did not understand it: under the law - which is my law, I voted for it and which is valid until now, because you have not changed it - the Minister for Health must issue two price cards every year, and indeed every card, Mr Xanthi, at a lower price than the previous issue. In 2015 you did not issue any price lists. One was issued at the end of the year, which was the case next year. Therefore, due to you, prices did not decrease in many medicines, so the pharmaceutical industries took part in the patients with more expensive prices. That's the real fact. He's not in doubt. It's for granted. It didn't come up. Note that the card has been posted on the EOF website and then the Minister of Health has never made it a ministerial decision. So I'm trying to get a reasonable answer, I'm not saying anything yet. We're working on it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u414	Mr. Georgiadis, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u415	So I say: Do you have an explanation why in 2015 you did not issue a price report? Is there an explanation or do you have anything to tell us at all? Because if we're talking about presents to the pharmaceutical industry, we should know who at least did them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u416	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u417	Minister, what do you want now? You know, here's the paradox: We're talking about...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u418	I'd like to make my speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u419	To talk. Yes, sir. Earlier, Mr. Xanthi, do you want to take the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u420	I'll be presenting some amendments later.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u421	Okay, thank you very much. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u422	Because the speech in time of a thousand paradoxes does, as they say in the places where I come from, I will take advantage of the time of my speech, in order to respond to some of the things that have been heard here before, because unfortunately some fellow Members think that by doing the rhetoric and form of half-truth with whole lies, they can eventually blur the waters of reality and what has been happening for two years in our homeland in relation to the health system. Many colleagues before making a more general position. It has been said in particular by the special speakers and by the parliamentary representatives and a great deal has been said by SYRIZA colleagues who have spoken and spoken about the bill and articles in particular. I shall refer to a few specific things which have been heard by the last speaker, but have been heard before other speakers. As much as the media in the country as an ordered service - because such is and is an arranged service, because they have been charged behind the theorem and anticipation of the 'left parenthesis' - try every day - and in particular some, two, three large, all-Greek channels have taken it as an ergonomie - to discover America, presenting a black image of the system, the reality in its arsenals is this, and it is not questioned by anyone who has basic numerical knowledge, level III class, and has the elementary honesty to recognise that a huge effort is taking place in the last one and a half years, since we started to govern, from October 2015, because until then we were not ruling. We had a nipple on our necks and we were trying to get her out. An effort is being made to balance a system that had reached the verge of functional collapse. No good-faithed observer can see that he has been given by the state budget, by the General Accounting Office of the State, EUR 300 million a year in the real money that the General Accounting Office gives in the field of health. No true and honest observer can see that in 2016, the single insurance fund, for the first time in history in terms of real money, the hospitals of the RIS and the supervised structures of 532 million euros in the RIS, 60 million euros in military hospitals, 47 million euros in the "Onehouse", 70 million euros in the "Papagorio" and 20 more in the next few days, 24 million euros in the ERCB, for the first time in its history, which covers the costs of 2012, the costs of aerospaces that you left unpaid, and the previous and the previous government and you had reached the level of debt to the Air Force of 100 million euros and which we agreed to give 50 million euros, gradually through the fall of the Greek people and from the move of funding, to end this debt and to proceed with normal aviation relations now. No one can question that. They don't say the channels that discover cockroaches, which for the first time discover in their lives ranch or construction malices that are from 2004 and 1550, but that's the reality. Secondly, no one can recognise that since October 2015 with all forms of industrial relations have been on duty - I repeat for the third time - six thousand two hundred people in hospitals, health centers and in the country's CIDs.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u423	New number!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u424	Every day it grows, Mr. Economou, as you don't understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u425	End up in a number!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u426	But I don't end up. I can't end up. Next week will be over. What can we do? After they're hired! Where you'd shut the door and just drive away, we're taking! And it's our honor and our pride! Because that's how we set it up on his feet, the one sitting behind you, with the help of others. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] They are three thousand six hundred people, full of the selection procedures, which are appointed daily. There are another thousand seven hundred sixty - six people, completed, and there are another five thousand, proclaimed in the next few days. We have already signed with Andreas today for a first large group of permanent doctors in the system that will be published in the next few days. That's the reality, in capital letters! Have we solved the problems? No, we haven't solved it. Does the system have any weaknesses? Of course it does. Are there any on-call problems? Of course there are. The point is that what the world recognizes and understands is that a heroic effort is actually made by the Ministry's leadership, by the service actors, by our partners, by the system world, who is backing up, because he sees what we are doing for the first time after five years and six Memorandum destruction. That is why it does not participate in the directed mobilisations made by some with organic links to the old political system of trade unionists. See today the success rates of the strike in the EKAB, for example: two commanders, twelve crews were participating in today's totalitarian strike. Mullets, horses, camels, trucks, wheelchairs are abundant. Working people are not behind the mobilization. All he's got is systemic channels cover, making the hair. If there were what happened every night from the bulletins at 20 a.m. bombing society, we would have fallen. But we don't fall. We take it and we will close the evaluation, and it will all be done. In quantitative relaxation we will enter and no new measure will be taken by 2018 and everything will be renegotiated and after 2019, because after five elections Europe will be different. The lusts of some who don't want the evaluation to be closed and want Tsipras to fall. And Tsipras will be in his place, and SYRIZA will finish the four-year period and at the end of 2019 the Greek people will judge us for all the policy we have tried to implement! This is the reality, whether you like it or not you like it. To say now and three, four things about certain specific issues. Firstly, with regard to what you have produced as a result of what you have done in primary health. You have not been caught, Mr Vice-President of the New Democracy, by any ideological mutation - your DNA in these perceptions is completely fortified far-right - the full and exclusive employment of the doctors of the IKA and the doctors of the former IKA - EEA. You didn't get the passion of the Left to bring in full and exclusive employment. What you did it for only one reason and it is judged by the result. Where we had five and a half thousand doctors, in two weeks we had only a thousand two hundred in the structures and in the medicine of IKA - EEA. I mean, a complete collapse.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u427	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u428	Two and a half thousand took place after legal proceedings. You don't know well. You didn't read them well last night, when you were preparing your speech. Thousands of two hundred are the doctors who chose full and exclusive employment and remained, a thousand percent are the ones who returned by court decisions. Right now, what we do with Andreas the Blonde waiting and the new law on primary school, which comes - and don't worry, is the bill ready -...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u429	And what's this?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u430	He's his precursor. I'll answer that in detail. So what we are doing is making it possible for the invitations to come out so that they can start absorbing money, because we changed all of what you had built from the past and we can use EUR 140 million from the NRP resources to support the new primaryity of local health units in their first steps. So the only effect of your intervention was to stay with a thousand doctors the PEDYs. He'd live with a thousand doctors! At the moment, while we are waiting for intervention, clearly and clearly, and we are trying - and we have proclaimed the seven hundred sixty - and we will be proclaiming both thousands of permanent doctors who will also strengthen the TENs with specialities. But we cannot expel those who are serving today. That's why we're telling them: "Select, guys, this will end. You can't work there and have the office.” If necessary, we may also be giving another extension - and today still - but this is done on a final date in order to support the system. The system must be supported, which is deeply injured. If we send out the seven hundred people out of the thousands tomorrow, so they choose, and tell them that what Mr Georgiadis has done - because that is why the two and a half thousand left then, and these ones returned by court decisions - is that the only practical possibility is that a citizen should go to the private sector. That's what Mr. Georgiadis did. We won't do that. What can we do?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u431	Minister, I'm going to interrupt and continue soon, because I have to announce the visitors before they leave. Excuse me for interrupting.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u432	Of course!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u433	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how it operates, thirty-four students and students and two educational attendants from the 7th High School - and lyric classes - Larissa (first Chamber). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, I also have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theory, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, fourteen American students from the International Centre for Greek and Mediterranean Studies College Year in Athens. Welcome to the Greek Parliament! [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Here, Minister, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u434	I need to answer two other things in general. One is about AEMY. The CIFF did not do what it did because it was simply not in public accounting or because it hired a certain period of doctors for the ICMs, as it has been re-introducing for the last time for the last time, because we have been proclaiming positions on a permanent level, but did what it did because while it was a control centre for special infections, it was converted into a mechanism for either advertising expenditure and control of SMEs, whether they consumed programs from the European Union, from sponsorships of companies or from other funding of the Greek state, which have been dispensing for a period of 15 years with opaque procedures, as they have shown a number of findings of the JHA, which are unfortunately still under judicial investigation and which have been in a year and are still looking for them. It is the speed of justice in some cases, which we represent with the speed of producing the Government's judgments of condemnation and collapsing legislative initiatives. At the same time, that is, that justice has in its hands a finding from the EDPS that says that this program took it from a particular company, in this way, with a set-up contest, is still being investigated. At the same time, however, the contractors denounce the works contracts and say unconstitutional the law in August. At the same time that he has a second finding in his hands on CEDEFOP - CEDEFOP relations, which goes in preparation for the corruption prosecutor, he gives it and says go ahead, the prosecutor still asks for a second finding. It's a second finding, it's the same and they're still looking for it! At the same time, it is considered unconstitutional to appoint school directors, while it has been a constant request of the educational movement since 1974 to elect school directors. Because we need to see both sides of justice, so I don't have to go on with other things about the past. I say only two examples. I shall refer to the issue with AEMY. We made this specific political choice to open the Santorini Hospital, which was our commitment. You had an understanding that there was going to be a hotel and that the equipment would leave. We opened it, and this was the way to open it immediately, because with the bureaucracy of the Greek state, which you and your predecessors have shaped from PASOK forty years, would open it in five terms. We have chosen to open this up despite the war, which accepts from the property of a private centre there, which, unfortunately, has fallen, the owner of which has specific relations not with you, but with the other party of the House, and which has been sealed for two months because of illegality. What can we do? Santorini Hospital continues and will continue its operation. We have also chosen because there are various convicting judgments of courts that remove the authorisation from the mental health structures of NGOs and because patients cannot stay on the street and because we do not want to give them to other private sector structures that we are now in the process of controlling them - and they will be involved in this process and those included in the current bill - we said that these structures should be taken by AEMY, so that patients will not stay on the road and, indeed, in urgent need. Because when there's a convicted judgment that takes away your license, you have to shut it down, it takes you off the street, that is. We say, then, that, by urgent procedure, AEMY, which is not generally private, will be the one-sided public GDP. That's not to make the hair.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u435	Minister, please finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u436	And one last thing. But I have to say it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u437	But you know - I am sorry to interrupt - on the occasion of the debate on a bill on mental health, all health policy is being assessed. Not from you and colleagues. I get it, but...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u438	That's how all my colleagues were placed, what am I supposed to do?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u439	So now, with this brutal violation of the Rules of Procedure, what will happen? Don't I defend the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u440	Good. You are absolutely right on your part, but I do not think that Members' positions from all sides of the House - and that is how it is -...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u441	But I'm not saying it for you, you're right, but it's unbelievable.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u442	Should there not be an answer from the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u443	There is a conscious violation of the Rules of Procedure on all matters.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u444	Good. I just wanted to say another word, although I wanted to say a lot here. I've known and know how much I've been looking for, and as much as they're hidden, I find them. I'll say this, so we can get it over with, and from there, for the rest, do whatever you want. In any case, we are used to, "knowledge the mountains in the snow", every day, we accept a lawsuit from all the representatives of the old political system, because we really are and will become even more annoying. On August 28, 2013, a recommendation from the EEA to the committee you had created - you were - and it says that the drugs do not get the most expensive in private medicine, because we will have a reduction in expenditure. On December 9, 2013, your law, your signature, and the possibility before, but you finally gave it. Article 22: 'these medicines may be circulated in private pharmacies'. You made it. On 21 January 2014, published the first invoicing decision on medicinal products based on the law you made in 2013. Because it's all stairs, you're masters of the building. It makes you opposing a suggestion from the EEAS. You pass law and make it backwards, you make a Committee on Invoicing Medicines and you say: they will be sold, but we will have a special wholesale price. The special wholesale price, for those who do not understand, is 2% more expensive than the hospital, i.e. 11% cheaper than the wholesale price, and on this basis the profit of the pharmacy, which will initially be EUR 30 plus VAT. This is your first decision. A few days before you go, just because you're tired of making it all up, on 4 June you're making a series of arrangements that you're completing and saying that from the next review these medicines will be these, you're changing profit rates, you're not talking about expensive 30 euros, that is, either 500 doing either 1,000 or 1,550, the profit of the pharmacist will not be 30 euros. Let's say, at a thousand euros, it's gonna be 5%, i.e. 50 euros. Another EUR 30.50. You kept the same, too, Mr. Voridis. You just changed the lower part a little. So you make this decision...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u445	Minister, you're about to finish. You're in 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u446	Wait a minute, Mr President, to finish this.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u447	I'll answer that. If I don't answer that...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u448	The decision of the price card, which is deducted from the specific wholesale price, comes. So the calculation from the wholesale price begins. And so you hand over the Ministry's steering wheel to Mr. Voridis. That's how you delivered it, no matter how hard you're trying to hide it. We rebate, you say now that "we, we have the other rebate" and you went out there and you made a speech on a channel one afternoon, I heard you. Rebate there are anyway. You didn't put that on.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u449	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u450	Put your hand down.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u451	Minister, we're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u452	I'm done. Mr Vorides comes on 18 August, because he sees where the expenditure goes and that the wires will be burned - and the new drugs specialist passes the rebate - that he must finally buy them and keep the amount from the pharmaceuticals, which is the difference with which the Agency buys it in his pharmacy. That's what you did. Let me say it differently. Mr. Vorides cleaned you with the decision on August 18th. You hand over what I said, exactly what I said. And don't generally tell me. Some people have understood. You have had opposite suggestions, legislate one, legislate two, put a small profit, legislate three, put a great profit, legislate four, abolish the special wholesale price and surrender.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u453	Minister, we're done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u454	That would mean 65 million euros...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u455	Oh, that would mean!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u456	So much, of course. Your next door has cleared you for making the decision on the rebate plugin. Explain yourself, so we don't get any misunderstandings.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u457	Minister, you're done. We're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u458	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u459	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u460	Mr. Georgiadis, what exactly do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u461	The floor on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u462	I'm so sorry. Look, there's a matter now. First of all, there is no staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u463	No, and it doesn't exist. If it's not personal, what is it?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u464	There is a reasonable need for you to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u465	Mr President, give me three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u466	Can I speak? Would you give me the right to speak? There is a need for you, and I understand it, to respond to a speech made about all the matter of health. But, if we go that way, there are twenty of your colleagues who are waiting for...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u467	That's why I'm talking. That's all I'm gonna talk about. After I have to answer him and he's leaving now. Mr. Polakis, don't go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u468	Well, if he wants to leave, he's going to leave. What can we do now? Mr. Georgiadis, you have two minutes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u469	We have taken a big step today - I hope Mr Vaxvanis will hear it, because my exotic has already gone - the 65 million-million-dollar gift is what was going to happen, but it was not because of Vorides. It's a step forward.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u470	It's intent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u471	I'm here. I'm not hiding. Unfortunately, Mr President, Mr Paulakis does not understand or do so on purpose. I read from my controversial ministerial decision, which says that I made the gift: 'Paragraph 2. After the next review, the above medicinal products may also be administered by private pharmacies.’ Why did we do that? He also said about the EEAS' suggestion. Because patients complained that they had to take miles to get their medications to go to the hospitals or to the EOPY pharmacies. And the patient had to take the paper from the hospital, go to the EOPY pharmacy and go back to the hospital to do his treatment. This raised issues of cancer patients' suffering, raised safety issues. We even had cases of stealing expensive drugs. So, then, with a public dialogue exhaustive to the EEA, industry, pharmacists and doctors, we have come to see that they have to go to private pharmacies. This was a political decision taken by the House and explained to the House why it must be done. However, in the contested decision: 'From the next review, the medicinal products in question may also be granted by private pharmacopoeia. In this case, the Marketing Authorisation Holders (MAHs) shall be subject to the same volume and import levels as in the positive list of other medicinal products administered via private pharmacy.’ In other words, the three thousand eighty-sixteen, the drugs we are discussing, did not pay rebate until that day. They didn't pay rebate! And to get them out of private drugs, we set a condition to enter the rebate process of the rest of the drugs. How much is it, Minister? Because you know it and it's a shame not to talk. It is 9% the import, 2% the rebate starting, 1.5% for serious diseases and then entering and volume rebate from 2% to 12%, depending on sales. In other words, in the worst case, if we didn't have one euro sale, we'd have a 12.5% price difference. I mean, 0.5% difference from 13% he says, but that was for zero sale. Once the first sale, in the lowest category, was going 14.5% and over 2 million euros - and here we are talking about very expensive medicines - you know how much the discount goes? She's going to 24.5% from 13%. What Mr. Paulakis has not understood is that this method was 10% more prejudicial to pharmaceutical companies than before. And he hasn't figured it out yet. And what Mr Vorides has done is not to 'clean me'. After the negotiations with the Troika on the profit of pharmacists - because this has not been understood, that this decision was made to finish and close the assessment of the profits of pharmacists - I have completed the relevant decision. While, in my own decision - if it were executed, because it was not done and I will tell you later because, if you want - companies would pay 10% more money than if they were selling it from the EPOY's pharmacy and from the hospital, they come and blame me, because they don't know how to read. Not just that, Minister. Do you know why so far companies don't actually sell in the pharmacy? Because it does not interest them because of these arrangements. That's the real reason.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u472	Pharmaceuticals aren't in any interest...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u473	The company isn't interested either. Instead, you, who I consider to be a decent man and do not identify you with Paul, get up and say, "Dear Paul, in the immediately below paragraph you read, Georgiadis institutionalizes the rebate and there is no "gift" to any pharmaceutical industry", you leave him and make these indulgences from the Step of the House. I think you're an honest man. I asked you why you didn't get a price sheet in 2015. I explained to you and whoever knows Greek understands clean sky lightnings are not afraid. But why didn't you make a price report in 2015 - you were not the Minister, if I remember your colleague's responsibility very well - and, in violation of the law, Mr. Paulakis did not tell us about it. Are you going to tell us? Do you have an explanation?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u474	In his speech, the Minister will see what he says and what he wants to say. Please, Mr Barriottas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u475	Ladies and gentlemen, I have to admit that I have a problem of understanding mathematics against Polakis. Although I had a good grade in high school, I really find it hard to understand how it calculates and uses numbers from the Step of the House. So I will go back a few days, during the committee meetings, in which Mr Paulakis, with great joy and great pride, announced eighteen thousand seventeen hundred appointments, that is, twenty-five appointments a day from the Ministry of Health, in the field of health alone. This is a number, a record that remains irreversible since the time of government Karamanlis 2005-2006. Then we were talking about appointments to this scale. Because I think we will all agree that an obligation in this Parliament, and not just, is documentation, references like those which I have heard before, 'about four thousand here, I count two and a half thousand there', is a method which does not work. I asked him the other day - and I will continue to ask for it for a long time from now on until I see it - the statement in the House, even the posting on the Ministry's website, a detailed situation with the appointments, as they have done, the announcements and so on. I would also like to point out that the intangible appointments of this type and which, unfortunately, we have seen very recently in the collective memory of the Greek citizens are linked to old-fashionedism, not to good administration, not to the solution of the country's problems, but above all to their expansion. And I will only come to comment on one, because, frankly, no one has time to mention the last amendment, which I have to admit has surprised me and angered me. I'm talking about the one about forming the TOMMs. Obviously, the government is not naive and does not believe that it can set up primary health care in a country that is now unable to do so, with an amendment of nine pages last minute, as a porn, literally. He is naive enough, however, to think that by appointments from the window he can make politics, because that is what it is. It essentially opens up a procedure of appointments, with decisions of PPP governors and with criteria that the Minister will retrospectively define throughout the country without any plan. Unfortunately, it is nothing but the survival of the well-known old logic, "I found money in the NRP and I eat it." This is the raw truth of this amendment in the way it was tabled. I do not think that there is a parliament, not in Europe, but in the world, in which such a quality and such reasonable amendment would dare anyone to testify to it at the last minute, practically wrong to do what? - to substantially open up a recruitment process, unprepared, clipboard and knee. If it is, indeed, ready for this famous bill of primary school, even if it makes nine months to come down, as it did - nine months has made it come down from consultation alone - it can be incorporated and debated if there is reasonable. The assignments are eighteen thousand seven hundred and obviously going for a new record. However, as it is done, it is a record of old-fashioned and rupeetology. It is neither filling gaps nor covering a health system that does have a problem. It is an unacceptable tactic of post-population, which is perpetuating and becoming worse, unfortunately, than this government. As for the bill, I mean, it's a broom bill. It's the third bill - broom. It's invertebrate, no philosophy. And unfortunately, I did not see any new principle of mental health. It does not touch any of the essential problems of mental health. He's trying to shut holes. It opens up new ones. Mr. Paulakis isn't right. He talked to us here about AEMY for opening the Santorini Hospital. We voted almost all when it went through. We are talking about a Swiss suite who hires, takes money for refugees, saves NGOs who have been bankrupt, most likely without anyone having any concern about their being insecure, who will pay for the broken, without any procedure, without any trace of transparency. If CEDEFOP had problems, this is a man of debauchery, if it is allowed to evolve in this way. Everything can be done by concise procedures. It's terrifyingly problematic. And of course, last minute are the TOMYs, devouring for the ESRB. It's another culture that bankrupt the country. "I have found money from the NSRF, I will absorb it." Efficiency? "You don't get bored, brother, we'll see you later." Of the two main problems of this government's health policy, as deleted over the last two years, one is ideological and political. There is a discomfort and inability to testify to a certain philosophy. We're hearing about a public bias. We have heard a number of things that the Left has been repeating as idealism for years. However, we have not seen any draft legislation that supports them with philosophy and logic. The second serious problem is time. At the rate you are moving, ladies and gentlemen of the House, for the basic legislative intervention for the health system you need a third of the years. A bill on average every nine months with a little of everything - as it was here and as the previous one - very little can do. And the tragic event at the "Elpis" Hospital confirms, unfortunately, what I have said many times, that the infrastructure of the system is in a terrible state and very soon, apart from the shortages of drugs, we will also have problems of failure of materials. And such tragic events hope not to be repeated. Otherwise, the bill on mental health is a motto in the bureaucracy of the committees. And I asked many times: will the decommissioning continue? Will psychiatric hospitals, as they were, indeed, designed - are you right about that, Minister - and from left psychiatrists? You didn't say if they'd shut down. I asked you three times. And if they close, what timetable will that be? When will they close and what program? Is there a programme for revising the decommissioning programme? Are we still there or are we still talking about something else? It's not necessary to be there, it's a good thing, but we need to know. [[Noise in the Chamber]] I'm sorry, but I'll fight both of you. You play in the channels anyway. You're an excellent twin. You have excellent talent, but...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u476	Let's unwind ours, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u477	That's right. Thank you, Mr. Voridis. But you're confusing me. Mr President, just a minute, I'm gonna need it. What I have said before is that there is a failure to establish a single policy stance and I have explained why. On the one hand, we have measures, which are sober in the ideas of the Left, such as primary health care with full and exclusive employment, as if we are in 1980, an unacceptable synergy of the development of doctors who by the ESS are reintroducing it and, at primary level, in order to eliminate all concepts of dignity and quality by leveling everything, shifts from EKAV's barrens to the same logic and consolidation of a layer of subsidiarys, who are not recruited in the ESS, with a logic that creates an intermediate layer, which is already beginning to create problems of quality and reliability in the health system. These are the left-hand changes that at the same time pass through changes, such as the one I said in detail about AEMY, and necessary reforms, such as the REAN, in which I should have used the well-known phrase of Alavanos 'Good children', since after a strong reaction of years about the logic of costing services in the health system, we suddenly found it useful and legislate it. I'll close, 'cause I've gone over time with a commonwealth. It's so common now that the ESS is falling apart, we say it and we don't believe it and we don't think about it. The truth, then, is that the health system in Greece collapses and collapses in many ways, collapses the bars, slows down the machines, does not have staff where it needs to, and needs to be reformed. We don't have to shut the holes or melt them off. It needs to be resolved, however, that no ruffles and appointings from the window, which are convenient for a party clientele, may not suit the system. I said, and at the beginning, that there is no resolution and no help. It matters what you do and how you do it. That's why I'm waiting. You weren't here. You told the committee about eighteen thousand seventeen hundred appointments. I expect to see a situation, announcements, numbers, dates. And if you do them, we will discuss them and if you do them well to congratulate you. Today I heard 'approximately'. "About" is not a mathematical term. I'm waiting for it. So this government is unable to put priorities, and I think I have said it before, with the time it is moving and with the results it brings to Parliament, it has a great problem of effectiveness. On the one hand, this is a huge problem. On the other hand, I will close by saying thankfully, because if it were as effective as it is, everyone would have been appointed by Mr Polakis rather than on paper, but in fact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u478	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Megloumoustakas, Parliamentary Representative of the Union of Centres, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u479	Mr President, I too request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u480	Mr. Economou, right after.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u481	We have to go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u482	You're right, but Mr. Big-fashioned had asked long ago.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u483	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, I am going to Stepma and anyone reading this bill starting with his title understands that it is not what it should be, as we see it says 'Reforming the administrative organisation of mental health services', eight articles, 'Centres of expertise rare and complex illnesses', nine articles, 'and other provisions', eighty two articles. You are bringing amendments, which again are not very few, today, which is unacceptable. I see an amendment from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs yesterday, but you did not bring it, Minister. That's not planning, unfortunately. It's what many of the previous people did and I don't think you were applauding. In general, the bill has a positive sign and we will vote in favour of it. We also voted in favour of it in principle, but also of the whole. However, there are some provisions to which we shall also object. Before, however, I begin to refer to the bill, I would like to table two basic principles of the Union of Centres on Health. Every Greek citizen, against us, should receive medical services, just showing his police identity card whether he is insured or not. We know how times are, we know what the state of our times is. Whether he is insured or not, at least in public hospitals should all be free, when our doctors are not paid properly, and that is the second place I want to testify with. In recent years over eighteen thousand Greek doctors, unfortunately, have taken the road to immigration. I was previously on a research and technology committee and had been referred to ‘brain drain’. And how not to leave, since here, beyond the high unemployment rate, and wages aren't the ones they should be. Eighteen thousand people. For each of them, the Greek state invested around 80 thousand euros. We have lost or gifted foreigners about 1.5 billion euros of Greeks. Unfortunately, some problems, some of the pathogens of the past, are still continuing today on your Government. In particular, I would like to mention two examples: The University Hospital of Alexandroupolis asked to buy a thousand five hundred printed paper packages with some special features that can only be characterized, as it speaks of "ash content, surface electrostatic resistance, surface hardness against Bendtsen", some things that photograph exactly where they want to give the contest, while at the "Agia Sophia" Children's Hospital for electromechanical facilities in the hospital they ask for a shipwreck mechanic. Unfortunately, that is what led us up here and we see that you repeat the same mistakes. But let us now also refer to the bill. The first chapter is a chapter which we will vote for as a whole, as long as the gates of satisfaction of the 'days' are not opened, as the decentralisation of the central management of mental health is introduced. It is always enough not to happen what happened earlier with the decentralisation was an alibi for the inertia and indifference of the central political scene, which gave all the hot themes and the hot responsibilities in the region, without ensuring that these latter are properly equipped in infrastructure, have the necessary staffing capacity, have the resources to carry out their work. In particular, regional administrations, mental health sectors, sectoral scientific committees, regional councils and we really hope that all of this will contribute and help to achieve the objective, which is to improve the mental health system. We also hope that this well-known saying, according to which when you do not want to solve a problem, you create a committee, and continue the problematic model of 'comitology'. Because we in the Central Association want to be trustworthy, we want to hope that this new decentralised administrative restructuring of mental health services, which creates the intermediate administrative level of the region, will have an added value. However, we have reservations as to whether it will be implemented, since it provides for the establishment of multi-faceted collective bodies set up following elections, without, however, binding timetables and deadlines. And we all know very well that these are heavy and time-consuming procedures for both setting up and taking decisions. My personal view is that this administrative reform, which, in itself, is not a bad one, is not a solution to this problem. And why am I saying that? Because by reading the bill some ordinary citizen thinks that we are in the Swedish Parliament now, we have solved all the other problems and now we are coming to establish an intermediary. It is not a question of building this intermediate structure. The question, too, is not to build, if there is no, a proper structure. The question is that there is no political will, unfortunately. There's a huge problem here. And this bill is just going to bring some stumbling-ups and not real and definitive solutions. The lack of political will, the under-management, but also the under-funding are the three main problems of the mental health system and perhaps of all sectors right now in Greece. Let us not forget the 'SYCHLING' plan, which should transform the mental health system so that it becomes a European press. It should also be transformed from where we had incarcerated patients to call for the social integration and the professional reintegration of these people, always in conjunction with the improvement of their care. That is why a lot of money had been absorbed - you know that too, and those who were there previously - and "PHYCHARGIS" had a plan in depth of years, which was up until 2020. We're talking about a lot of money. However, we are also talking about a very big humiliation and indeed about political involvement. I'll give an example. You know almost well here that private individuals without specifications opened up structures, some private hostels, who in no way met the building standards, but also the staff specifications. And all this at the command of a hospital, which always operated at the minister's command. Instead of nurses, they put cleaners and instead of a psychiatrist in the head office, they put a psychologist who might not have seen a psychiatric incident or binoculars. So in the field of mental health it became the big festival. The money was given to NGOs for both hostels and boarding, mobile units. Instead of taking the state and taking advantage of his, already existing structures, they were eaten by scientists and then disappearing and who knew them! The Greek governments have been constantly receiving money from the European Union to allegedly limit beds to special psychiatric hospitals. What, though, really? They closed down all the special psychiatric hospitals over the last decade, with the exception of the three large, one in Thessaloniki and two here in Athens, which would close them, but found themselves in a dead end, because the problem is very big and you know it well. But Europe did not finance us for it. That is why he has asked us to return to 110 million, for which we have been extended, and we are currently getting away with it, but we will see what will happen. We do not want to be cynical, but we want to ask a question. Is this reform to be voted on simply a mask to show the European Commission that we are doing something, too, that we are legislating on paper? And I'm on the papers, because we know very well what's going on to this day. We vote, but when do we apply them? Unfortunately in many cases never. We hope to improve and hope to find a solution with this large sum of 110 million. Today we have very few mental health centers and you know very well that one with two nurses is called to meet thirty and forty patients, while the safety limit is up to eighteen. Unfortunately, the problem with this bill is not solved. The positions of the Union of Centres are simple and understandable. We ask that psychiatric clinics of the general hospitals currently in existence be opened in the paper years, always with a connection to medical personnel. We are asking to increase the mental health centers and day-to-day centres and let the psychiatric clinics stand aside, as we are asking for a real record of the real needs of housing rehabilitation structures, such as guest houses, boarding houses and apartments, because after mergers and shrinkages it is not clear how many units we need. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will be very brief, Mr President. I just need a little more time. With the second chapter we are in agreement, as it is harmonisation in line with European standards. As I have no time and would not like to abuse him, in the third part I will only refer to Article 48, concerning the Anonymous Health Units Company, AEMY, to which most of the speakers have referred today. AEMY was a single-participating state company, which wanted to settle some issues of the Olympic Village Polyclimate in 2004. It then began to assume other responsibilities and extend its activities to both primary and secondary levels of care and health. It now extends to activities in the fields of mental health, asylum, migration, integration, training and training of staff working in the field of health, other than doctors and nurses. There has been a lot of talk in the committee today. Others are talking about stacking the mental health system, others talk about privatization. We, as Members of the Centro Association, do not serve ideals. We know what the advantages of a company governed by public law are. We know what the profit was as far as Santorini Hospital was concerned. However, we are very afraid that not everything is done transparently. That's how the CDC started, for which you have information, which you blame the previous ones with. We don't think you're going to do anything different, giving extra responsibilities to AEMY. Unfortunately, you repeat in every bill the same mistakes. You make the mistakes made by the previous ones and you manage with the fine letters each time - not only you but also the other ministers in the other bills - in one of the positive bills to create tensions and disagreements. We all saw what happened today. I hope at some point that everyone who governs the country will change and serve not their party but their country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u484	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Vassilios Economou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u485	Mr President, the bill on mental health is a classic case of SYRIZA's fraud policies over the last two years to those who do not know him. Those who know him or understand the classic methods used by the refreshing or backward left - as you want to say - are very clear what he does. Paulakis said we have a left health plan and they won't let us do it. If there really was a left plan for health, we would sit down and talk about it seriously, see if it would give a perspective to today's mess, as they have been shaped. Is there a left plan on health? Oh, no. Listen to see what's there. There's a broken public health. For two years all levels and, above all, the quality of public health have been impoverished. Government trade unionists, who ruled inconsistently by 2015, have swept out and have been hidden, because they have taken government posts. Their wages really deserved until 2015. The years 2015, 2016 and 2017 you are not listening to anyone. And those who come and say that at all levels public health has become downwards or are questioned or made crazy. But, indeed, there are no recruitments to the public health system. Paulakis has been confused ten thousand times so far. Barriot said very well before. If we do a calculation, and we put in everything he has said so far, an eighteen thousand have been hired. There's none of this. In the last ditch he made, he took his account off about a thousand five hundred, a thousand seven hundred people. There he admitted that he also places the appointments of the previous recruitments that had been announced.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u486	Where did you hear that?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u487	From you to the Committee on Social Affairs. These recruitments must speak to the world, that is to say, a left-wing policy with that economic policy. You have here at least the ability to wait for something, the intake. More serious failure than these three thousand OAED sites, which great people, unrelated to the subject of health at the moment, have come and filed their papers...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u488	Do not replicate what the 'First Theme' says. Come on, get serious! Come on, get serious! Finally!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u489	Shouldn't we reproducate it? So, Minister, do you claim that these three thousand people fulfil the conditions?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u490	You are disgusting the nonsense of the 'First Issue'. That's what you're doing.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u491	Is that what you're supporting?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u492	I'll give you the evidence.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u493	We'll ask, but so far you haven't answered one of them either. You haven't even answered one question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u494	Are you a health officer of the New Democracy? Come on, get serious! We have racism, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u495	We've thrown it into racism now?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u496	Is that a serious criticism?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u497	They're or aren't people who work...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u498	Are you now making serious criticism?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u499	Are there nurses in there? Are there health professionals among those who applied? Are there? Minimal. And that will be revealed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u500	You're completely ungodly. First of all, we didn't hire them. OAED made the proclamation.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u501	This will be revealed!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u502	Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u503	If these are the positions of the party's health officer who claims authority, we are saved!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u504	They fill the hospitals with compulsory education. We'll see about this.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u505	You have a problem. You have a problem. I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u506	Mr. President!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u507	Listen to see, about this form of deception you're making with the "monkey" recruitments, with the party commanders you've put, the party submissives who are persecuting. Seven hundred management posts in hospitals have changed! We have denounced you that the conditions of the law are not met and that you have changed them to two and a half thousand seven hundred. We ask you: Are the conditions of the law fulfilled? We have respondents, constant complaints of persecution in hospitals. So the party subordinates - I shall say to them, that is the end of the nobles here - who did not fulfil the requirements of any assessment and no worthyness, were the half of SYRIZA and half of the ANELs. To tell you the truth, the ratio was 70%, 30%. It's seven to three.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u508	Whatever you say.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u509	And you four, two, one that you were saying... Seven to three was. It was three of the ANELs and seven of SYRIZA's. So these partymen started prosecuting. These parties, the instrongers, you've put in hospitals, and the Gaulinders, they're making the so-called recruitments. And the recruits and the principals will have the answers in front of them. Not the decisions of the Council of State, because as I understand it, you're sending the account to CEDEFOP. You know nothing about the crime of the millions that will be paid tomorrow as compensation. They will receive the answers to their maladministration - from here there is the serious warning we give them - when they persecute from outside the law managers and when they hire people who do not qualify. And all this in the name of the left public sector policy, which we hold? No, of course not. Listen, you've just brought TOMY with the 140 million ESRB for primary health. What's going on is incomprehensible. Get the bill to make a political controversy. But, TOMY, Soviet enclosures inside the country where you'll be hiring and absorbing 140 million through your people who will set up 30% of the land...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u510	Imagine doing it at 100%.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u511	You don't have any money. Of course, two years later, you will give it to the next government and you will tell Mitsotakis to come and appoint you permanent, as you now do to the cleaners and the chess houses in the hospitals. Twenty thousand more...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u512	You won't be in that position. Don't worry!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u513	In September. Listen to see, the other deception you're doing is about the evaluation, Mr. Polakis, as you said before. Of course, you have deliberately left both streets open and evaluation and non-assessment. Today we're at this crossroads, but you can't find a way. But it's close until the story reaches its end by September. So there, I'll see you what you're gonna do when the choice time comes. There, then, we say that we will not take up the legacy of these commanders. Forget it. Some people are already forged and say, "We have earnestly come out and we will enter the new system." It's over. Nobody. They will all eat "h". I'll tell you. If it passes through my hands, everyone "x" will eat.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u514	Say it one more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u515	If it goes through my hand. Second, all those recruitments you're making, they're all illegal. Third, Soviet TOMY...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u516	What hires are illegal?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u517	All of them! The cleaners you make from the back door without ASP and the squirrel, plus the TOMY, plus...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u518	Mr. Economou, please finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u519	Listen, you won't flirt health with illegal recruitment - the time it collapses - with thousands of people, who don't have to give...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u520	You're done, Mr. Economou.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u521	Is that you, Mr. Baroness? Because he was Mr. Lykoudis before.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u522	You had a sure thing!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u523	I had Mr. Lykoudi, and I didn't understand the voice. The voice changed and I wondered what happened to Lykoud. But he's the bored man.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u524	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u525	Wait a minute and I'll be done. So we won't accept that. For mental health, as you have seen, I have not made any references, because not just reform is not, but this story is a comedy. In other words, once again these 'committees' and these committees and the bureaucracy in which we are discussing it...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u526	This democracy, this participation, this shit democratic! Tell it to people to understand it!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u527	Minister, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u528	Democracy? What democracy? Is this bureaucratic shape you've put in a democracy? Is that a democracy?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u529	Mr. Economou, you're done! Time's up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u530	But you know what? You don't take a stand on the big question of what will happen to the three major psychiatric hospitals.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u531	Finish the debate, Mr. Economou. It's over!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u532	You share chairs and seats again and share the misery we see right now. We will not vote for the bill in principle. Some articles, as Mr Yoyakas said, which we see are interesting, will be voted on. But it's very little. On the substance, we will expect your TOMYs to look at them when you bring them as a bill and not now secretly and steal, last minute in another bill and judge it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u533	Mr. Economou, please. In the Soviet Union, I would like to confess to the Bureau. It was not much time in the Soviet Union. They were holding the time. Mrs Maria Triantafellou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u534	Mr President, I see nostalgia.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u535	Is that what you see? Everyone sees what they want, depending on the glasses they wear, Mr. Voridis. Mrs. Triantafel, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u536	Thank you, Mr President. I see a free translation everywhere. I also have the impression that we are all counting without the hotel owner, and I think this should be stopped. It's time to stop. I think a day-to-day bet is not to surrender to plagiarism. I know that it is extremely difficult, because for issues that burn the Greek people, it is very easy in the days and times that we live to spread disorientative attitudes. For example, the public debt comes to me. How old was it? For twenty years it may have been in 100% of GDP, but no one was speaking. Here is the usual practice. The ministers were surprised, even Mr. Blonde, who is a calm man. We don't have to be surprised. But we need to respond and respond politically. We mustn't be surprised at anything. I have said that the participation of the New Democracy and its Leader, Mr Mitsotakis - the participation of the Mitsotakis family in general - is inversely proportional to the debt of participation in the political life of the country. The deposit is distances and scandals, at least for the time being. We hope that the newest gene will disprove us, though very doubtful. Regarding the bill, the bet on the upgrading of the National Health System is fundamental for the country. The aim is to "strength" the degradation of the social state. And we can argue that after two years, we have taken small steps, we have achieved small goals, but very measurable targets and very measurable things. So there are recruitments of medical staff. However, because it is an issue that will come back and come back and we will not make any sense - although everyone knows, because everyone comes from a region, and we can count because, fortunately, there is realities that we can assess - I think that we should give concrete evidence. One, then, is the recruitment of medical staff. There is a minimal increase in the budget. Not the one that should, minimal. There is an increase in medical examinations covered by the EEAS. There is a guarantee of access to two and a half million uninsured and economically weak citizens, that is, things that have been said by other colleagues. But why is that important? Why is it important, then, to guard and develop public health? Because we firmly believe that health and education are unnecessarily public goods, expressing the culture and the sense of responsibility of the political system towards our most vulnerable citizens and - finally - they are the main pillars of the so-called social state. Really, what social state do we want? Do we want a social state that will produce deficits, mismanagement and debt? Obviously not. It is well known, moreover, that the black money that has been moved to health during the previous period, over the past decade - and there are specific responsibilities for this - is equivalent to the public debt of the country, and scandals are likely to go beyond ingenuity, even in the cases of armaments programmes, and that of 'SIEMENS'. So, what health system do we want? We want and seek a health system that produces high services, modern, with a sense of responsibility, democracy and understanding towards our fellow citizens. That is the aim of all the efforts, that is what indicators are expressing, and that is what is being done with the recruitment of doctors and staff. They are objectively these facts and I think that opposition should finally not see it - I am sure it sees it - but understands it. This is a question that also relates to social cohesion, to the sense of law, to the very existence of our political system. State care for mental health, the need for improvements, the linking of developments with social demands for human rights, the role of democratisation of the state's institutions are time-consuming requests and must begin to respond. The first chapter of the draft law attempts reforms, which overall facilitate the administration and the nature of mental health services. It should be stressed that the problems of mental health are not disfellowshipped from the wider social and worthwhile context within which modern man survives. It is well known that poverty, social exclusion, the economic crisis are putting people in a spirit of psychiatry. And it is worth pointing out here how the tough and competitive framework created by neoliberalism is shifting the values and beliefs of the citizens, who increasingly identify human beings with other situations. In Greece of the crisis mental health diseases have increased, while the role of mental health structures has been devaluated. This makes it more necessary to reform mental health services in a decentralisation direction, which will ensure the interoperability, democracy and the effectiveness of administrative structures. And we need to know well - we have seen and discussed it many times - that the question of administration is very important for the operation of the whole state and of course of health structures. An intermediate administrative body is hereby established between the mental health sectors and the mental health department, which will have its head office in the health regions. In this way, 12 regional administrations of mental health and two committees are set up. We must say that it is very important that there has been dialogue, that there has been consultation. The main philosophy behind this administrative reform is the decoupling of mental patients and anthropcentric approach with respect and scientific in the specificity of these cases. Reasonable questions have been raised about delays in the release. I will accept the delay in time. I think, however, that there should be real unanimity, consultation and concrete proposals here to achieve this objective. We must also say that the remaining provisions of the bill resolve and improve chronic diseases and health problems. Essentially, the payment of an employee is arranged, a National Health Council is set up, injustices relating to primary health and so on. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Thank you. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I have to say that we all know - and it is visible by the results anymore - that in this ministry over the past period the enormous problem of mental health has not been tackled with due seriousness and responsibility. It was more treated as an incubator of opaque procedures and problems. We also all know that the New Democracy fired more than two thousand doctors from the PEDY. And today it is the procedure, as it tells us about Article 26. We know he made a five-euro ticket. We know that it has reduced almost half the budget. We know that it has led and strengthened the operational collapse of all health structures. Above all, we need to know that we will insist and say that we really need positive transformationist content on every initiative and on every bill. Ladies and gentlemen, claiming hegemony wants to be a bleak, moral. That's where you win. We must insist, not give up on intervention, not give up responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u537	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how it operates, thirty-four students and students and two educational attendants from the 7th High School - and lyric classes - Larissa (second section). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Lazarides, Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u538	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the fact that mental health has to be included in the first public health priorities is increasingly recognised in recent decades in Europe and in our country the reform of the relevant framework was also expected. We therefore welcome the efforts of the Ministry responsible, as the introduction of regulations finally begins to try to restart the structures of mental health, focusing on the creation of a system of primary and Community psychiatric health. Administrative changes in mental health structures are being launched, while structures are being created where they do not exist. Regional administrations of mental health sectors are established with the aim of decentralising services and their proper and responsible functioning. For the first time, decisive responsibilities are attached to these regional administrations, a permanent request by the sectoral mental health committees, with an innovative regulation, let me say, with the right to vote, that representatives of recipients of mental health services and their families are represented at the level of administration. In addition, for the first time, we see that a representative of local government is involved in the setting-up of committees, in order to ensure interconnectivity with social services of structures such as 'Help at home', etc., as well as a representative of primary health care structures, in order to ensure their interconnection. Ladies and gentlemen, the rights of patients are shielded, as in every area of mental health committees are set up to protect the rights of recipients of mental health. Since we are talking about building up structures, for the first time, an institutional framework is being established for expertise centres on rare and complex diseases. This was not the case, on the contrary, there were garlic services, which could not provide what they needed. In Articles 9 to 17, we see the roles and tasks of the centres as well as the obligations, criteria and conditions for their recognition. The committee that decides on these diseases at the ERCD level is still being upgraded. The text also contains regulations on the ESS concerning the development and legalisation of qualified doctors in the ERC, educational licences, the inclusion of doctors without specialty, transfers, social security, distractions, computerisation and other matters, for which a number of colleagues have been set up, and I will not comment any further. We welcome, as very important, the establishment of the Pan-Hellenic Association of Dental and Ergonomic Therapists as legal entities governed by public law, which demonstrates the style and objective of the arrangements under discussion, that is to strengthen public health care and structures. Ladies and gentlemen, the reorganisation of the system of mental health services is considered, on the basis of the burdens and conditions created over the last decade, to be more necessary than ever. The direction that is being proposed certainly finds dissidents within and outside Parliament, but let me say that this is an attempt to cooperate that must be supported. We look forward to the proper functioning and organisation of professionals, services, communities, recipients and relatives in order to ensure the individual rights of our mentally ill citizens and to ensure that they are consistently cared for. In this belief, I close my speech. The Independent Greeks support the bill. Before I come down from the Step, I would like to stress, Mr President, Minister, that this government is trying to heal the wounds of the public health body left by the previous governments. Remember what? Remember the story with the CDC, the story with the NOVARTIS? I'll tell you something else. I would like to mention the "The Virgin Mary" Hospital in Thessaloniki, which was a victim of the policy of previous governments. A hospital that stood out for its completeness managed to shut it down in favour of another hospital, which did not even have building permits for a hospital. Instead of keeping the Hospital of Panagia open at all costs, in which even the cost of hospitals was one third of the average per exile patient, they closed it and pride themselves on their policy. Thessaloniki really lamented the loss of this hospital. It would almost fall victim to their politics and the Papageorgiou Hospital. They owed him 240 million, which were debts since 2012 and the hospital reached the limits of the closure. One cannot accuse the Papageorgiou Hospital of mismanagement because his debts to suppliers were 70 million. So he had to receive 240 million. If we take away the 70 million debts, which were his debts, he had a positive effect of 170 million and he would almost fall victim to their policies. Of course, the policies of the previous governments were specific and targeted. Public health had to be affected in favour of private hospitals. And the government in 2016 gave 70 million to the Papageorgiou Hospital and arranged the outstandings coming from the past in order to stay open. Anyway, there are too many examples of what public health has been affected. Another thing I wanted to mention and I would like to inform you that I am going to put a question on this, Mr Minister, with which I would like to stress precisely the sins that come from the past. There was absolutely no control over the bills of examination by private hospitals. After having placed the patients in private hospitals to sign that whatever costs are justified by a debt, they undertake to pay them back. I shall refer to these, Minister, in my question, because I would like to give you the opportunity to carry out a check, because they have been abusive and have exercised rights many private hospitals at the expense of patients. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u539	Thank you, too, for the time economy. Voluntary speech cut, no Memorandum Requirement! Mr Stoyannides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u540	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today's plenary debate is under discussion the bill 'Reforming the Administrative Organisation of mental health services, Centres for the Experimental Experience of Rare and Comprehensive Diseases and Other Provisions'. I will not go into the health articles, because Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament, who also have the expertise of the doctor and certainly know more about health than I, have mentioned in detail. I shall refer to the articles of the Ministry of Labour, which have been incorporated into the bill as amendments. These are articles which I have seen a great deal of controversy on the part of the opposition, which should not exist for me. These articles regulate serious issues that concern many of our fellow citizens and hundreds of thousands of unemployed. I'll speak in detail. Article 94 ‘Integration of groups of unemployed into employment programmes’ reads as follows: ‘By a joint decision of the Ministers for Home Affairs, Economic Affairs, Employment, Social Security and Social Solidarity and Economics, and following a recommendation from the Management Board of the Human Resources Agency (OAED), it is possible to integrate groups of unemployed, with priority for long-term unemployed and vulnerable groups of unemployed persons registered in OAED registers into specific employment programmes in the public sector as defined in Article 51 of Law 1892/1990’. So what does this article say? Where there are certain groups of unemployed with great problems, they have the opportunity of ministers to decide on specific programmes, to integrate these people for specific time into the public sector, so that they have a small income. What do you mean? Should we wait for a bill from the Ministry of Labour to be within the Ministry? You often call for amendments, which you should welcome and vote for, because they concern social groups, hundreds of thousands of unemployed. Aren't you aware that in our country we have 23% unemployment? Do you forget that you took her to 27% and broke every record? Or do you forget that in 2012 you legislated by an act of ministerial council to abolish the collective negotiations in Greece and you forget that the IMF does not let us bring them back? You also forget to tell us your position, PASOK and New Democracy. What did this arrangement do? At that time unemployment was 12% - 13%. Instead of yours, when you abolished them, you said that you tried to hit unemployment, it was more than doubled. Unfortunately, you neither restored the collective bargaining nor today you are supporting us in the negotiations. And when we bring arrangements for the unemployed, you're still shouting. So, let us see also Article 95 ‘Emergency work of registered unemployed’, which reads as follows: ‘Emergency registered in the Labour Force Employment Organisation (OAED) registers, which carried out up to seventy days per 12-month period, can at their request at the OAED confirm continuous unemployment, minus the above working time and any period during which they were not registered unemployed’. You had legislated on the unemployment cards the unemployed had. You do not know, however, that when someone worked even one day, and two years had been unemployed, it was zeroing at the shortest, as people simply say, and unemployment began at the beginning. What's going on? This has resulted in either black and black workers working or not going to work for short periods of time, because they feared that they would lose the months of unemployment and thus, when a public job was announced by the OAS, they would not be able to have the molecules of unemployment. So they would lose the five months in your time and the eight months that we established. Finally, this arrangement comes to the House to relieve hundreds of thousands of people who lived with this anxiety. So what do we give? We are giving the right to even seventy days to have time, not to waste the previous time of unemployment, simply not counting, as unemployment time, days of work. This is a fair request from hundreds of thousands of unemployed who finally come and regulates this amendment. And you yell out, you dare, and we make ruffetie to no one. Article 97. For the purpose of calculating pension earnings, account shall be taken of the remuneration of the insured person for each calendar year, adjusted in accordance with paragraph 4. It says below: The adjustment of the remuneration pensions for the period up to 2020 is carried out when the change in the average annual general consumer price index of the Hellenic Statistical Authority is changed. The adjustment of pension remuneration for the period from 2021 shall be carried out on the basis of the wage-change ratio calculated by ELSTAT. You know very well that with the introduction of the EBRD, the method of calculating pensions is said to be done with the wage-change index. Of course, after months, ELSTAT informed the Ministry of Labour that there was no wage change index. While in other advanced countries there is this indicator, in Greece it did not exist. And so the Ministry had to find another way of calculating pensions to finally give a hundred seventy thousand people who are waiting to get their pensions - that is, the normal pension - within 2017. That is what this amendment regulates. You can say things, blame why we didn't bring her in earlier. But, even late, there is a regulation involving a hundred and seventy thousand people who are waiting to receive their pension. Is that bad or is it ruffetti? You're talking about ruffles and recruitment. You're only talking vaguely. Bring to the House at last and prove to us that we take with ruffles and outside SAPA people to the public. That's nowhere, so you haven't brought it to this day. Also, when you talk about assignments and the unemployed hear you, what do you think about them? They say no one will be appointed? I'm sorry, maybe many of you were never unemployed, but the unemployed person when he hears about appointments, says when my turn comes, he doesn't say no one will be appointed. That's the difference. You also know that the appointments are controlled by the troika, the troika that you brought to Greece for the mismanagement and the client state of the time when you appointed people to the public by opaque procedures. There are no opaque procedures in SYRIZA. We know it's bothering you. You're extremely disturbed by the SYRIZA Government. But for the governments, it is not for the peoples, and not for you, nor for the interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u541	Mr Metarakis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u542	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have heard the Deputy Minister, Mr Petropoulos today, trying to defend the insurance law of the SYRIZA and ANEL Government. As we continue to move to the rate of evaluation, pensioners know that the assessment conceals large reductions in main pensions. Because the Katorugalou law aimed, to recalculate pensions, to define the personal difference and this personal difference to be ready to enter the bed of the Protestant of evaluation. And today, with this bill, with Article 97 and 99 - which we are voting against - you are trying to salvage the Katrugalos law because it is wrong. Of course, the Greek people know that these pension cuts coming are the result solely of the manipulations of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government and the state of the Greek economy. An economy, which returned to the recession, as your Government was unable to exploit the positive economic data for 2014. And today we see the deposits of households and businesses reaching points lower than the catastrophic June 2015. We see the Greek banks resorting to lending again through ELA, signaling that our banking system is re-introducing. We see the GDP figures again showing recession, and - and this is particularly important - the international environment is extremely unfavourable and volatile. And you keep ostriching. You are also talking about concrete measures of budgetary austerity and supposedly countermeasures, but which will only apply if we catch the targets. This, ladies and gentlemen, is nothing new. The right to take measures to strengthen the economy and society in the event of the programme being over-paid is applicable from 2012. Of course you're always very creative with words. Today's countermeasures are a new term, the evolution of the Thessaloniki programme in the January 2015 elections and the parallel programme in the September 2015 elections. You keep saying the same thing in other words, but what remains is the tough austerity measures in which your own deadlocked policy, your negotiation leads. Ladies and gentlemen, it took twenty months for the Ministry of Labour to understand that the Katorugalou law is not coming out. Ten months worked this law and ten months passed after it was voted. And today you come with Article 97 to change a basic parameter of how pensions are calculated. And you must apologise to the citizens who have been waiting for months, for their pensions to be calculated, and you cannot. The Minister said today that in 2017 these pensions will come out. You used to say September, now you're taking it to the end of the year. However, the reality is that no new pension has been granted over the past few months. As regards the index you are changing - it is interesting - you admitted to the committee that you found this index in international literature, without asking ELSTAT, if this index is calculated in Greece. Question: Did you find this indicator, were you looking for books, or did the troika give it to you, translated it, and put it in Greek legislation? Of course, because there is no index in Greece, what did Mr Petropoulos find to say? You accused the Government of New Democracy, which did not think for decades that someone might ever want to use this marker of ELSTAT. You continue the same policy. You are the first government instead of ruling against the opposition, legislating on the knee, how it suits your government at all times. Of course, the crucial question, which arises from Article 97, is not just how much this personal difference will be. The first estimates tell the Ministry that it will be 20% with 25% of the main pensions. The main question you have to answer to the Greek people is whether these pensions will be cut by 25% and it seems not from 1-1-2019, since your deadlock will lead to these cuts much sooner. Article 98 regulates insurance capacity issues. You settle a matter for a short period and settle it retrospectively, because you have been late to realize that there was this problem and you kept all these people in agony for some time, people who were in danger of losing their medical care because they failed to complete - in the new 2015 and 2016 recession - the required number of working days. I now come to Rule 99, which we also vote against. Reincrease the contributions for the one-off for old workers, raise 12.5m euros from the insured's pockets, according to the report from the General Accounting Office of the State. And since I am talking about insurance, we have to ask once again the question: what about farmers? Mr. Petropoulos, with his seats in the House and today's publications, creates an alalum for farmers similar to the alalum that still holds well for the blocks. You need to make it clear what is going to happen with the support rights of farmers. If the pensioners who still have a field will not transfer them by May, will they have a reduction in their pensions? Isn't that what the Katrugalu law says? But you are in trouble with the issue of income from agricultural work with the issue of rights for direct payments, which is historically related to the possession of an asset. And today the UCLAF did not open the way it should. Because you have gaps in pension law, because you yourself do not know what you want to do in the matter of farmers, this creates chains of negative reactions and confusion everywhere. Ladies and gentlemen, the insurance system is suffering because of frugality and because of incapacity. The stocking of pension applications is ninety-five thousand in the first two years of your administration. We hope that after the vote on the correction with Article 97 you will be able to make use of the funds, which are available in the State General Accounting Office for Retroactive Pensions, and not to lead us to the end of the year to have pensions pending for years and the necessary funds that are currently lost. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u543	So do we. Mr Kavadas has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u544	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the government in a sensitive area, such as public health, has not been able to escape from its best practices. We have a bill of ninety-three articles with scattered provisions, which, by opaque procedures, serve further and in which there is insufficient care for the mentally ill and the citizens in particular of the remote areas. But, ladies and gentlemen of the government, the issues of the administrative organisation of health services and, in particular, mental health are not and should not be the field of party services. I have no luxury of time, so I will focus on specific articles: in Article 48 you describe another nice way of party appointments. Firstly, with the Anonymous Society of Health Units, AEMY, which can assume responsibility for the operation of private mental health units, it is clear that you are attempting to appoint people at will by abolishing all legality. In fact, recruitment for the staff of private mental health units will be apparent for one year and will be made directly by the President who will be appointed and after the end of the contract will be allowed to renew them by way of derogation from any other special or general provision. Secondly, it is planned that AEMY will have broad responsibilities specifically in relation to the management of European programmes on asylum, immigration and integration. In combination with the fact that AEMY as a public limited company does not fall under the public accountancy and does not have a prudential control of costs, you are building a structure that operates without transparency and can be used for direct awards, works contracts or leases of works of an indefinite duration by way of derogation from any procedure or by direct choice of natural persons. Everyone's talking about 'transparency' in managing the funds for immigration, but you don't see any dust coming up around the world. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not talk about the circumvention of the Constitution in other cases, such as in the case of the Pappa Act on television licences or the appointment of school directors with the Balta Act. I shall, however, talk about the cooking you have attempted in the health sector, where you already have an annulment decision by the Council of State on the redundancies of the administrations of state hospitals. I admit that you are discovering ways to settle your own children in order not to slap on unconstitutional appointments. As the "first-time left" government, we expected you to approach and legislate with greater social sensitivity. You didn't manage to tear the memoirs. You're probably about to sign a new memorandum. At least sign a draft law that solves the problem of providing medical services to the citizens, especially in remote and barren areas. Article 29 regulates the transfers of doctors from the ERC where, unfortunately, the gaps that will be created in these areas are not guaranteed. You make a change where, as the article stipulates, the doctor who has served for five years in a remote area has the ability to request transfer and leave in 12 months, but there is no provision to ensure that the doctor has been replaced before leaving. Minister, I have often bothered you about the problems we have with doctors in Lefkada and Meganisi, but also in the smaller islands, Kalamatos and Kastos. I am sure that other colleagues and bodies have raised the same issue for other remote areas in the country where public health benefits are nonexistent. We are talking about human lives, about the elderly and children who are at the mercy of God. With this bill you should also solve the issue of the shortages of qualified personnel, but instead of hiring qualified staff for the hospitals in the country, you hire some people who have nothing to do with the health sector. I'm not saying don't hire people. But I say that thank God, medically qualified personnel we have and these people migrate to hundreds of foreign countries to find jobs. Shouldn't a way be found and these children stay here, but should the needs be met? Why do you continue to divide the citizens of many speeds into the citizens of the country? Why, when it comes to taxes, contributions and everything you bring us, are everyone equal, and when it comes to public health, the people in the region, especially in feral and remote areas, are second-class citizens? Especially in Lefkada, there's no doctors' fitness anywhere. But let us go on a very important subject for my region created by the statements made by the Secretary-General of your Ministry for the Lefkada Hospital. Mr President, I am presenting to the Minutes of the House a report that Mr Giannopoulos, at a recent meeting with the WTO, asked whether Lefkada should have a hospital. Is it possible, Minister, to make such statements at a time when the new hospital is almost ready, when Mr Paulakis himself had described it as an ornament in Lefkada and stated publicly that the ministry is not closing but opening units? I'm presenting it for the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u545	What's the source of the information?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u546	You'll see, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u547	Check that this is also from the 'First Theme'.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u548	You'll read it, Mr. Ministers. At the moment, the new hospital, as you know, is a hundred twenty beds and will cost the Greek taxpayer more than 32 million euros.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u549	And I could say close the bridge...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u550	Mr. Ministers, here we are. Take a seat to answer if these are false, so get this over with. Minister, this post upsets the whole of Lefkada and we must now have a reply from you whether or not what the Secretary-General said, who has served in the 6th RS, is correct, whether you are adopting them or not. That's what we're interested in. I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u551	Mrs Kafantaris has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u552	Ladies and gentlemen, we have heard a great deal in this Chamber today. The debate on a bill on psychiatric health, on psychiatric reform, took a more general political approach to major issues, for example for negotiation. I will not go into this, but it has given me very much impression that representatives of the New Democracy have also discovered America as if it had not been so much before. All these years were good in public health and all of this has been ruined for the past two years. I would like to say this: By taking over the country's governance effectively and following the September 2015 elections, this government took the heavy responsibility of getting our country out of the crisis and comitology with society upright. It has taken responsibility for implementing in parallel with the difficult measures of a parallel programme, as we say, so that society can stand up. Inside this process was the pre-election commitment to cover our uninsured fellow citizens who in 2010 to 2014 found themselves outside the public sector of social security and public health. And that, if you want, that's not a small thing. I'm stressing it. As much as it is in doubt, those who are listening to us at the moment understand the importance of it. I will come and say: All these years, from 2010 to 2014, of the previous New Democracy - PASOK, have we not had any further deterioration in public health? Didn't we close hospitals? Didn't we have departures, medical facilities, medical staff? There were about eight thousand departures. And, of course, we had our insecure fellow citizens. The first thing we need to see is that within the tight budgetary conditions we are experiencing, there has been - and there is also a way in the budget - a small increase in health expenditure. Someone's gonna say she's a little girl. Yes, but ladies and gentlemen, it is an increase in health. What have you been doing for so many years? You guys shut down structures and hospitals. We're open. You have condemned, as I have said before, our fellow citizens not to have access to public health. We have brought this back, as far as the uninsured ones are concerned. You're the one who put the pentacle in the hospitals. We abolished it. You have condemned inaccurate, inaccessible areas of our country to zero healthcare. We are managing doctors in these areas, giving specific incentives to young doctors, which are also included in the bill. You led doctors to leave. But we, despite the difficult budgets, started recruitment to the public health system. I would also like to mention the EKRD which, while you had completely degraded it, for the benefit of the private sector, during this two-year period and new cars were taken - around a hundred - and eighty-six were recruited and made more of them. On the other hand, there is also an amendment on uniforms. Of course, we should not talk about the primary health care you have effectively abolished, with a direct consequence of the further burden on public hospitals. We have heard before the Minister that a draft primary health legislation is also being prepared. Ladies and gentlemen, I remember when we were opposition to the tours and participation that we had as Members of Parliament, as an official opposition at that time, in the struggles that the hospital doctors did in our country in primary structures and in public hospitals. I remember the concern and uncertainty that doctors and all nursing staff felt at the time. I remember certain mobilisations at the 'Dromocaete' in Dafni, prepared by the previous government - let me say - with whatever reform he meant - to find mental patients on the streets. Of course, the very important thing that this government has done is to combat corruption and interlocutory in this sensitive area of health. The great 'part', therefore, has been over. A series of cases, CEDEFOP, NOVARTIS and all of these are in justice for investigation. So we received a public health system at the edge of the collapse. As far as the psychiatric field is concerned, it was particularly bad. We have a responsibility but also an obligation to re-establish public health on healthy grounds. No one, of course, can be pleased today and say that everything is working well, nor are we defending this situation as it is shaped after years of specific policies. However, we are taking steps and important steps have been taken and other steps will be taken so that we can re-establish the public health system. So now we have the psychiatric reform bill. But here, we must say the importance of mental health and say that it is not just the absence of disease or disability, it is the situation of total physical, mental and social well-being. In this draft law, in which there was great consultation - we have also been critical today that we have been too late, this may have happened, but this has been a genuine consultation on the subject - we are open to further positive proposals, which can also be made by Opposition in order to contribute even further. This draft law introduces decentralisation, democracy, transparency, involving and representing all involved, and above all ensuring the rights of patients to receive health. This is done with the twelve Regional Departments of Psych health, with the scientific committees of mental health for adults, adolescents and children, respectively. The question of the absence of an intermediate administrative structure, for the benefit of sectoralisation, is resolved, and should be addressed to the accessibility of mentally ills and their families to all services of psychosocial support. In addition to administrative measures, resources are needed. He needs a personal one, too. As our rapporteur has already mentioned, I think, in her report today, we are talking about recruitment of permanent staff. The first ninety-four places in mental health have been set up in the region as a priority. Of course, it is a question of dehydrating patients to continue. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In addition, however, the draft law also contains regulatory provisions and deals with certain outstanding issues. I consider it very important that the Centre for the Experimental Experimental of Comprehensive Diseases, i.e. the Reference Centres for Rare and Comprehensive Diseases, in which the inadequate institutional framework is reformed and, of course, harmonized with corresponding structures with European standards. It contains arrangements for financing centres for the prevention of dependency and the promotion of psychosocial health, and of course for the creation of a National Archive of Neoplasms. Here, let me say that I consider this to be very important, a necessity for our country, especially today, which we must also have, in particular, elements of policies that have to deal with both the environment and pollution issues, etc., to be a valid benchmark for the implementation of specific policies. In conclusion, however, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that we regard health as a public asset. Every citizen's access to the public health system is seen as a fundamental right. We are therefore in favour of an upgraded public health system, which we consistently build.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u553	Put it down, Mrs. Kafantari.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u554	I shall conclude, Mr President. At the same time, the private health sector must operate, of course, but with transparency, clear rules and conditions and not at the expense of the public sector, which was the case earlier. You, gentlemen of counterpopulation, what do you have to say in relation to this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u555	Minister Xanthos has the floor for some legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u556	Thank you, Mr President. Not for legal arrangements, but to present five amendments, which have been tabled,...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u557	More amendments?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u558	Oh, no. For the ones you've learned. The last two amendments will be put to you by Mr Paulakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u559	When? About five?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u560	First of all, I would like to say that it is added to the general title of the bill, other than that mentioned ‘Reforming the Administrative Organisation of mental health services, Centres of Experience of Rare and Comprehensive Diseases and other Provisions’ and the ‘modification of pension arrangements under Law4387/2016’, precisely so that the arrangements presented by Mr. Petropoulos can be incorporated. I would also like to say in advance that we are accepting Mr Mitafidis' amendment. I think that there has also been broad consensus on grounds of respect for the historical memory, but also for reasons of restoring an injustice, which has so far existed with the relatives of these people. I shall now refer to the amendments. It is an amendment with a general number 953 and a special 64, which regulates the setting-up of services councils in hospitals. We broaden the possibility of setting up the service councils and sub-group managers and also facilitate their establishment in cases where there are interconnected hospitals and the term of the'site' is deleted. This is how we believe that they can manage and operate the service councils better and thus address the outstanding service issues of hospitals and, if you would like, let me say, impose a climate of respect for democracy within hospitals in the hospitals. One is that. Second, I...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u561	Why, Minister, aren't there everywhere?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u562	There's no need in many places for...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u563	That's right. And we had formation problems. We also have the amendment with a general number 964 and a special 71 regarding the extension of the mandate of certain categories of subsidiary doctors. The reasons are obvious. We give the opportunity to stay longer in the health system people who really have played a very crucial role at this time, who are giving a great fight to stabilise and upgrade the National Health System. They are already serving about two thousand auxiliary doctors in the health system, eight hundred of them were on an extension that we gave and they are up to 30-9-20017 and we have hired about a thousand four hundred in the last sixteen months.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u564	It was from previous extensions.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u565	About eight hundred are from previous extensions, which we have already extended them twice, because we obviously did not want to jeopardise the staffing of critical sections and clinics. So what we are doing now is that we are, firstly, broadening the possibility for the primary care structures of Athens and Thessaloniki to have a two-year term there, as well as for the other primary care structures, namely health centers and PESHs of the rest of the country, which we had passed with a provision in 2015. We also give the possibility of a three-year term, in addition to the already described sections and specialties, which are intensive care units, artificial kidney units, psychiatric departments, TPAs, oncology departments, now add the radiation therapists, where there is a problem of staffing and adequacy of qualified doctors, Mediterranean anemia units and also the National Disability Response Centre that is interconnected with the CSD. We give these three categories the possibility of a three-year term and not a one-year term to the fact that it applied to Athens and Thessaloniki until today. It is therefore an intervention to facilitate staffing and to improve the ability to meet the needs more accurately in very vital parts. Also, there is the amendment with a general number of 972 and a special 75 with which we also restore the administrative staff of hospitals to the provisions of Law 4440/2016 on mobility. They were temporarily excluded. At this time with the recruitments we made permanent staff from the old 1998 ASAP competition, a total of ninety-five people will be recruited. I think seven hundred eighty-eight already have service. We believe that there is a more adequate, in relation to the past, staffing of hospitals and in terms of administrative staff, and we can also, under the conditions laid down by the law, facilitate mobility of managers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u566	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u567	Mr President, just a minute. There is also the amendment with a general number 954 and a specific 65 regarding biopathologists, former microbiologists. It is essentially a harmonisation at European level with the nineteen countries of the European Union which have such a multi-thematic specificity, such as Greece. The parentheses which existed in the past (Microbiology) are eliminated, and this facilitates the possibility of aligning European companies with their respective scientific companies, etc. It does not, obviously, affect the activity in our country, either of the microbiologists working in the public health system or of the liberal microbiologists. Also, there is an arrangement that facilitates the training of qualified doctors, to take the specialization in Clinical Microbiology, which had previously been regulated, has never proceeded, and now has been announced, six seats have been opened, to take some steps and now have specialized doctors in Clinical Microbiology in Greece. I think this can also make a significant contribution to dealing with problems relating to the microbial resistance and the multi-resistance of microbes observed in Greek hospitals. There is also the pre-electorality, the amendment with a general number of 955 and a special 66 regarding haematologists. It is pursuant to the provisions and decisions of the Council of Europe. I would like to ask the Commissioner if he would not be able to answer this question in writing. I would like to ask him if he is prepared to do so. We also explicitly abolish the possibility of opening bloodbaths, i.e. places where bloodbaths were simply being taken into the private sector, and then the samples were taken to other laboratories to carry out the tests. In our view, it created a situation of unfair competition and the creation of chains and, let us say intervention in the labour market, which posed a great many problems, particularly in the individual workshops of freelance colleagues. The last amendment, for which too much has been said, is the general number 977 and special 78 for local health units. We have also explained to the Committee on Social Affairs that an important, in our view, intervention in the field of health care system. Obviously this intervention will be the subject of a wide-ranging dialogue, both social and political, and we have no intention of legislating this plan through an amendment. This amendment actually serves to institutionalise these local health units so that they can come out of calls from the Ministry of Administrative Reform, from the sectoral programme of public sector reform, from which we aspire to finance the first eleven months of operation of these structures, and the rest of the period will be from the regional programmes of the regions. We therefore enable the process to proceed, to get out of the invitations of interest, to start moving and not to have a problem of delay in the absorption of the necessary resources that will be invested in the health system. That's why. Apparently there's the bill ready. I believe that in a short time we will be able to take it out into public consultation before Easter, in order to have a wide-ranging debate and explain to health and society that this decentralised form of organisation of the health system and citizens' access to it will be more guaranteed and the quality of care, in the logic of the family doctor, will be guaranteed. In our view, there will also be a more effective potion of patients coming to public hospitals. This is another conception, we have already discussed it, another culture in the logic of the health system. It is a very big reform intervention that the Ministry will do and of course we will have time to discuss it when the time comes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u568	Mr President, can I have the floor for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u569	Please have the floor, Mr. Lambroulis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u570	Mr President, we have heard the Minister support for the Minister of Health's amendments. Five to ten minutes ago, two more ministerial amendments were tabled. The sitting is closed after my colleague - I do not know if there is another speaker - and we are going through the seconds and the final placement by the Ministry. When will the Members read these two ministerial amendments, Mr President? The Bureau has to take a stand on this, too. It is unacceptable what is happening today, because the last amendment on local health units has been brought to us by the Minister and the Ministry of Education about an hour and a half ago. The procedure is unacceptable. We denounce it and ask the Ministry, at least the last two amendments to withdraw them and bring them into another parliamentary procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u571	Mrs Katsavria has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u572	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, while following the debate so far on the reform of the administrative organisation of mental health services, one can observe that there is probably a more general consensus and that the Ministry of Health's legislative initiative is moving in the right direction. Indeed, the regulations introduced highlight the criticality of mental health for Greek society, enable our country to align itself with the most modern standards and define the framework within which mental sufferings are treated with dignity. The fact that an integrated design is provided for the functioning of the Sections for Psychological Health Scientific Committees, the setting up of Regional Departments for Psychological Health and the establishment of committees to protect the rights of recipients of mental health services demonstrates the strong political will of the Government to gain an effective structure in this area and, on the other hand, to create the conditions for a new policy. However, if we are going to talk today about the content of the mental health policy and its historic journey from the psychiatrists to the present day, it is clear that many of the Vice-Population colleagues who used high tons in their places today would be in a very difficult position. The draft law also contains regulations on the handling of health issues and outstandings in general, and I am amazed that some colleagues have seen them as either rhetoric or as an opportunity to attack the public health system. Is the regulation on the adoption of the act of permanentization of the qualified doctors in the ESS sector, not by the Minister, but by the commander of the relevant RIS, or is it a speeding up of the procedures to serve our hospitals? Let me refer here to the fact that the Pathological Clinic of the General Hospital of Carditsa was in jeopardy because of this fact, as the evaluation procedures of the pathologists had been completed, they had to wait until the evaluation of all specialties and the signature of the minister had been completed. Such is the content of all the regulations, with an obvious aim for the public health system to function unnecessarily. Of course, the excessive criticism of certain aspects of the opposition falls into the void, as citizens are able to understand that everyone now, even uninsured, has access to the public health system. We have stabilised and increased health expenditure. We proceeded with the recruitment procedures for the necessary medical, nursing and other personnel. We set it up again on his feet. And this cannot be called into question by anyone, nor by the opposition, nor by any means of mass manipulation. It is clear that the more the quality of health services is improved and the more general belief that this government has come to remain. It's not parentheses. As also, it is clear that the definitive end of the illusions of the old political system for rehabilitation will certainly also be brought to an end with the successful completion of the second assessment. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to congratulate my colleague, Mr Mitafidis, on his amendment, which restores historical memory and justice to the Jewish Greek citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u573	Thank you, too. Here, Minister, you have the floor for some legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u574	As we have said in the Committee on Social Affairs, there will be some legislative improvements in several articles in the draft law, which I shall be tabling. I won't tell all of them in details. I will tell you two, three points that are crucial. One is about the part of mental health services. The Committees on the Protection of the Rights of Occupational Health Services rather than being set up by sector, as we have said, will be per regional authority. Instead of being thirty-eight such committees, they will be twelve, as many as the respective sectors, that is, the TENs. In this way, I think we are dealing with the criticism that has been made that we will not find much people to serve these committees. And, in our view, this intervention can actually work more effectively at regional level. One is that. A second important point I would like to say relates to Article 26, which regulates doctors who are currently serving in the structures of the EMCDDA and unifys their working relations over a period of time. That is where we make a change in the dates. In other words, the original provision provided that up to 30-6-2017 they should have submitted the application for accession to the system. This moves three months, i.e. 30-9-2017. And the end date for their integration under full-time and full-time status goes to 31-12-2018. This is the basic change that is taking place at this level, taking into account the criticism and the debate that has taken place with the institutions, and trying to ensure that we also have adequate staffing and a smooth transition to this new regime. And also in Article 29 on doctors' transfers, what we are doing is that, firstly, we say that one semester is a year.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u575	We said that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u576	We have said so to the committee and incorporated it. Secondly, especially for the health structures of Athens and Thessaloniki - which are too many - the doctor will be able to state his preference, but the Minister will decide on what structure will be placed by suggestion of the Ministry. In other words, on the basis of the design of the needs and gaps that exist in its hospitals, the Ministry will recommend to the Minister what position will be taken for the doctor who moves from an infertile area and has declared Athens or Thessaloniki a preference. These are the main legislative changes. I'm filing them to see them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u577	Are you going to change Article 25?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u578	Mr. Yoyaka, you're right. Unfortunately, we had no room to change it now at the last minute. What we are committed to, however, is that, for these seven colleagues - who do not have a general medical certificate, such as others, the possibility of joining this regime will come immediately in the next bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u579	Do you withdraw that?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u580	No, we're not withdrawing it. We've withdrawn as general medicine. That's what we've withdrawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u581	It's written in, though?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u582	No, no, no, no, no, no. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The term 'those who have a general medical certificate' remained, so these seven are excluded. I mean, thirty-eight is regulated, but not the rest seven. We are committed that in the next phase we will also regulate this so that there is no exception.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u583	Mr. Paulakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u584	Thank you, Mr President. I will say about two amendments that have been tabled now and that have caused my colleague's month from the JRC. I will start with the first of the two, which is the general number 978 and special 79. I would invite him to reconsider what he said, as it is a request from some workers and some people belonging to his area.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u585	Let's bring her in earlier. Why do you bring her now that the meeting is over?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u586	Mr Lambroulis, the procedure required for certain things, unfortunately, is too long. This matter has a lot of special weight, there's a lot of money behind it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u587	Everything's got.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u588	Okay, someone's got more than one. This is also a little symbolic, because it concerns the issue of construction works in hospitals. As you know, with the law last year in the 'parallel' programme, we legislated on the possibility of creating and signing individual contracts of employment with workers working in these workshops, in a direction of getting the contractors out of the ground, firstly, to get them better paid and to have working conditions much better for the workers already in these workshops, and not to have this huge waste of resources, which we had with the exploration of the expenditure of outsourcing in the Memorandum years by at least 50% -60%. Unfortunately, this is precisely because we wanted to use the experience of people working in there and to reward them not with the EUR 200, 300 or 400 they received, but with the EUR 750 and 800, who would take if we hired civil servants, unfortunately this procedure went down to the St. They had had had a time to sign twenty - three hospital contracts, which they regularly continued. As our political choice to expel private contractors from hospitals is final, we have legislated a new procedure with the signature of contracts of employment taking into account the criticism made by us on the left regarding the fact that the works contracts did not have the full working rights, in fact maternity leave or all the annual leave, which is the procedure for contracts of employment. We did this, and we are actually improving this process. We saw, then, that in a number of hospitals mainly of the center, Athens and Thessaloniki, precisely because there is a great influx of applications in these procedures, there is the possibility - and this also created some mobilisations in some hospitals such as "Evangelism" and some other large hospitals - a large part of what is currently serving in the services of cleanliness and focus mainly to find themselves out of work relationship. And basically what are we doing with this amendment? In response to a request they have put together hospital clubs, etc., we are effectively targeting more experience, pre-service and putting the potential for similar experience. Because these people are trained to clean up some sensitive areas, such as intensive care units, such as surgery, which have a certain process. It is not just a cleaning house that cleans the public spaces of a ministry or a public structure. In fact, this is what we are doing with this amendment, so that we can get as much experience as possible - because that was our original option, which the S.H.E. put it down. - these people who work now and want to continue, with employment contracts, to be able to do so. We know that all applications will not be met, because some other unemployed people from outside may have similar experience in the private sector in their respective units or be entitled to unemployment - that is, they are merely less than the original provision - but we believe that the majority of workers who currently work in private contractors with bad wages and bad working conditions will be able to sign these contracts. That is the one amendment. The second amendment, with a general number 979 and a special number 80, concerns certain aspects of the EEAS which must be done on the basis of the fact that this year the EEAS is signing contracts with all providers. A large category of providers with whom he signed contracts is all those supplying medical devices to various insured persons. And when we say "medical devices" we mean from sugar sticks to respiratory support devices, wheelchairs, special beds for people who are multi-harassed and hospitalized at home, a series of headphones, etc. What's actually happened so far? Go, the beneficiary of this provision, pay, take the papers and deposit them to the EPPY. Now and all this category enters the process of direct service contracts with EEAS. It will not be paid by the insured and they will deposit, but the ERCY will be consistent with those who comply with the standards - the vast majority of these providers, from what we see, keep them - and effectively deposit expenditure invoices to the EEAS and will be paid directly from the EEAS without the patients putting their hands in the pocket. Of course, the issue is being raised - and that is what we are regulating here - at what prices the EEA will pay. And since the EMCDDA, the Single Health Service Regulation, has changed logically and we do not say 'I will give so much money for this need and from there to cut your head', it will describe what the patient is entitled to, and it will compensate for prices that we will bring forward and for which we are putting a first process, because we have obtained access to databases of the European Union, and we are following a corresponding procedure with the one that exists on the medicine, that is to say we will make the average of the three cheapest European Union prices. We are actually legislating in the first paragraph. The second paragraph relates to an injustice that has been committed, has to do with special treatment, and we are resolving this, pending the conclusion of the committee that determines the final limits on expenditure and the number of treatments are entitled to children who have this need for treatment. In fact, we are assimilating the remuneration of the doctors and psychotherapists to the remuneration of the therapists, i.e. at EUR 15. That is the second paragraph. The third paragraph allows the EEAS to sign a collective agreement with categories of providers operating in the form of a legal person governed by public law, i.e. not to sign a collective agreement separately with each of the natural therapists, but to sign a single agreement with the pan-Hellenic association of physico-therapists or dentists tomorrow, or the employers we legislate in this bill, and beyond those professionals in this category who want to use this contract. Fourth is very important. It is the deletion of the requirements of the ‘Papageorgios’. After this arrangement, we deliver "Papagorio" with zero debts and debts. Here I will say a word: last year for two million euros became "the Lord" in Thessaloniki. This year, where Papageorgiou has received EUR 70 million from the regular financing of 2016 and takes another 20 now, it has taken EUR 67 million due and paid all suppliers up to 31-12-2015. With this regulation basically, because it takes a total of EUR 90 million for 2016 with the dose that it will get now, it will be able to delete all of its debts to the EEAS and deliver it clean, healthy and functional in the society of Thessaloniki. For so many years he's been charging debts all the time, and it's a hospital that has very long...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u589	It is also supported by thirty-six supplementary doctors.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u590	Mr. Xanthos clarifies that we are strengthening it with thirty-six assistant doctors. We are in the process of getting a special cabinet act, because it is a legal entity of private law, so that it can get permanent staff, who have left in recent years, because it really is a pillar of the public health system of Thessaloniki. With the fifth paragraph, we are resolving an issue that concerns many urgent emergencies abroad of the EEAS, due to the need that arises, when some patients leave and late submission of the documents to cover the part of the expenditure due to the EEAS, which is all too many times too often. There is a legal problem, that is to say, whether it can compensate expenditure for which the request has been submitted late. We are essentially legislating to enable the management board to examine this and to compensate for it. With the latter paragraph, we are supplementing a provision of Law4368 for staff working and controlling the clearance of service providers. There we have anticipated a proportion of the total amount of the EEA's budget from what could be escaped from the cut to be given as a premium to the workers, and this decision will be taken by the EEA Board of Directors. There was a gap there for who makes the decision. So the board of directors will take it. [[At this point, the end of the time bell of the Deputy Minister is ringing.]] We know that it is not right that the amendments are tabled slowly. I think, however, that their content is such that it allows for the understanding, participation and vote of all the wings of this House. I think I was analytic in explaining what I said. The procedures for an amendment to be tabled and for it to be tabled are unfortunately very long.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u591	Mr. Vorides from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u592	Thank you, Mr President. You will allow me to say that the procedure is completely unacceptable. This House this week, Mr President, has no legislative work. Yesterday she voted for two sanctions. Plenary is over in an hour. Tomorrow there is no legislative work. Why was this discussion of this bill chosen? Here too, the fact that the Conference of Presidents has given it the opportunity to discuss this at two meetings has been translated into the fact that today we will be talking concentrating both on the principle and on articles and on the amendments. Secondly, I beg your pardon, but what about this issue of the amendments? We have opened a debate in Parliament's Rules of Procedure. I am not one of those who will say that there are no urgent and partial issues of minor importance, but that the government considers it to be necessary to regulate them, but that cannot be done. I don't even actually get into it right now. Mr. Paulakis developed something. I don't actually get into it, it might be right, it might be wrong, one might want to agree or disagree. However, there is no possibility for this House to develop the debate at all. That doesn't make any sense. This is based on the fact that there is a majority that will say 'yes'. Okay, excuse me, this is an unacceptable procedure. In the process that we are starting to discuss now the Rules of Procedure of Parliament, however, there must be a provision to make a reference to this matter, especially on the subject of the amendments. I come to the bill under discussion. I have heard Mr Polakis develop the well-known argument on how to deal with justice issues. He even complained because, he says, they get along so quickly and unconstitutionally and how they go so late when they control criminal matters. There is no very complicated answer to that. They are different courts, at different speeds, and they are different cases, with each need. You're not familiar with them, but there's nothing terrible. Incidentally, the thorough examination of criminal cases is good for criminal matters and not bad. But what should worry you about is why you are not listening at all, when legal points are made and why you think that all legal points are from the evil and are not being spoken seriously. Wasn't the issue with Giannopoulos being illegal? It had been pointed out. Wasn't it marked before? It had been pointed out. Has the question not been raised in the way of recruitment, namely the placement of administration in the CEDEFOP? It had been pointed out. Wasn't the question of the abolition of administration in hospitals before? It had been pointed out. Not to mention the Pappa law, where there have been many points. I, at least, had developed an extensive argument for his unconstitutionality here, and I have also proposed his treatment.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u593	And for the head of school units.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u594	Has the issue of directors not been highlighted here in this Chamber?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u595	This is where we talked about this.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u596	Wasn't the issue of cleaning contracts mentioned here? Why don't you hear anything? Okay, I understand contempt for civil justice for ideological reasons, but that's where it exists now. Until revolutionary views and principles prevail, which I imagine to be in the next evolutionary phase, these apply. Now be careful how you respond to this. You say, yes, they won the court in the Council of State, the governors, but the money will get it when we have it. Now this is an answer to someone who respects the legal order, to someone who believes in the rule of law? When someone wins a case, whatever it is, and if we don't like it, we're applying the court ruling. What can we do now? There's no other way. But I'm coming to something else. You invest too much in all these famous revelations both in scandals and in different ways. Listen to something. I'll say something to my colleagues. The House decides and has given the specific ministers of the regulatory nature of the matter here. Do you know what this is? They have the power to decide on the price of medicinal products, on the price as soon as the medicinal product leaves the factory, on the price paid by the EEAO, on the profit rates of pharmacists, on the percentages of stores' earnings, on the profit rates of the pharmaceuticals industries, on the level of the closed budget. Is that so? Has Parliament delegated them to the regulatory authority of the ministers? Yes, sir. Do you know what that means? The Minister does what he wants. Do you know why? Because he exercises primary authority. He was assigned this task. What does that mean? You cannot find criminal offences in the exercise of regulatory authority. Because he exercises his authority. You can disagree politically and tell him "badly did this," but there is no criminality. Is it clear to end in political life with this silly conversation? Did you find him catching them? Prison. Did you find him bribe? Prison. Did you get him money on the account? Prison. But to tell him why you did it like that, while I would do it differently, you'd do well to tell him, but crime hasn't done it. Can we just finish up with the frame?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u597	Are you taking over the defense?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u598	I haven't taken over the defense. I would finally like in this place to start discussing issues of substance and not to get tired of sterile controversy. The controversy must be made politically. That's what I want. And when there are issues of moral order, that someone come with boldness, not Scandal and muddy, and say, Lord, Thou hast done this. Come here, let's try you. Straight.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u599	That's not all I said. I said more.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u600	What you're telling him is regulatory. That's what I'm telling you. Watch out now. I come to something else, Mr President. We are now discussing this legislative initiative.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u601	As long as you keep in mind your time and time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u602	Will I have your tolerance?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u603	Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u604	Thank you very much. So I come to this. Well, left government. Health: area of great sensitivity. He's waiting in sections, something to see. What have you changed? You yelled about the claw back. Have you changed it? You were yelling for the rebate. Have you changed them? You were yelling for the SAN. Did you change it? You were yelling for the papers. Have you changed anything? What have you changed? You yelled at first grade. Have you changed anything? You're government two years and the whole architecture is the same. And what you're doing and entering here in this bill - and I'm going to explain why - it's actually poorly understood micro-groups, rushpheological arrangements. But you don't do anything else in general. Where's the big left vision of health? What have you changed to say, "Let's have a big incision" and disagree with me, to kick my clothes that I don't like left and left policies, to fight for something seriously. What's that shocking? What have you done for two years now to disagree on a big issue? Because be careful where we disagree: What are you doing now, with what you are giving extensions to those who left the case of IKA, etc.Huh? Do you know what you're doing now? You're wrong people. Do you know why you're wronging people? Did you have any disagreement with the specific regulation on the IKA made by Georgiadis to SYRIZA? You did. Take it down. Why don't you remove it? You should abolish it for everyone, though. No, you must say: "Those who have stepped on her, you guys, and you have gone and booked your medicine, you're done. Those who fucked her and said, "We are leaving the TEDY and you are screwed. But you, who have made insurance measures, will give you an extension.' Why are the others doing this? You don't like the setting? Change the total. You say: 'This arrangement we take it back and come and undo it.' In other words, we now come to those who have complied with the law: 'You are the fools of the company and the suckers.' But the others, we take care of them. Let's go to another topic. You're shouting about the CDC. Question: Two years why didn't you put the CIF in public accounting?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u605	He's in, Mr. Voridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u606	When?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u607	Since last May, Mr. Voridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u608	Watch something. You come here today and you exclude AEMY.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u609	No, we don't exclude her.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u610	If you want to read the law again...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u611	We don't exclude her. She's special as an unsub while we put her on.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u612	Let me say and you'll answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u613	Mr. Voridis, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u614	I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u615	We broke our clothes. Don't break the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u616	You're right about that. You see, however, this is a consequence of the initial error, of the way we are discussing it. There's a bad million coming up! Now I really am inconsistent. But why? Because we've made the previous arrangement. But I'll finish it very quickly. You are bringing an amendment to primary school. First of all, are we going to have a conversation about primary school? You're putting in a new mechanism. To tell you the truth, I think that this should open a huge debate on what this mechanism is doing. What's that? What services does he provide? We're coming in now and we're saying we're going to get some people who'll help it, because we've found some money, like, 145 million. To accept all this. When did you find them? Yesterday? You've found them a while ago. Why don't you come and make an organized intervention, talk about it, see what it means to them, see what "two years" means, see what service it is, see what is going to be done after the two years with these people, see why these specialties and not others, see how this will be buttoned with the CEDEFOP and the health centers that are currently there. Is that right? On an amendment? Now, why did we get some money and want to put some of them in?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u617	Finish, Mr. Voridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u618	Watch out. You're saying it's not rousphetological. The criteria, however, which, the qualifications, the moleculosis, all of which are defined by the Minister, are laid down by a ministerial decision. How is it not rousphetological? He says, "I'll take it to the SAAP." Well, of course, if the minister makes the whole kandros, then I'll get it to the AAP to read the dashboard. Let me just say one last thing. He said another colleague, "It's yours. " Question: From the medical clubs why are you taking this paper that they give, that well the doctors can be doctors, the good standing, say? This certificate why are you taking it from the local clubs? The general direction around the world is to provide services at local level, to go the doctor to Larissa to the Larissa Medical Association.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u619	Read the answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u620	You're doing it. You'll see. It's paragraph 4 of the order.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u621	Mr. Voridis, please get this over with.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u622	You don't know that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u623	Interconnection is possible electronically.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u624	Oh, no. Can we read the layout?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u625	Mr. Voridis, tolerance takes another character from now on.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u626	It's 54...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u627	You abolished it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u628	What have we abolished? "On the basis of the above, the Panhellenic Medical Association provides at the request of the doctor certificates of proper practice of the medical profession." This is the paper given by the regional clubs.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u629	When they existed, because then it became a single region.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u630	How, "when were there"? Now they're giving it. Don't say that now. Talk to the clubs.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u631	Read it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u632	But talk to the clubs. Now the clubs are giving it. This paper was taken by the doctor at the local medical club to take it, because you now tell me about Vlastarakos, and if it's Vlastarakos and Barnabas, or it's Patulis and Hectyl. That's not how it works. What we are interested in now is neither the Patulis nor the Heptactyl, nor the Vlastarcus nor Barnabas. What we care about is if that's right or it's wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u633	And another question, Mr. Voridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u634	I'm done, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u635	Is there a Bureau?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u636	Of course! Although we would expect more from the Bureau in general, not this one in its formation. Generally speaking.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u637	Whatever procedure you'd speak less.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u638	In fact - and I shall end, Mr President, in the next ten seconds - what this bill is doing is drawing up arrangements, poorly understood arrangements, arrangements that had been put to leadership over the previous period, have not exactly been satisfied because they were poorly understood arrangements and now you believe, in the collapse that is taking place, that you will be saved with them. I tell you one thing: Never, never, no government at any time, at any time, was saved with them. You won't be the exception.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u639	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, sixty-eight students and students and four educational sessions of Paros High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Here, Minister, you have the floor. Just don't imitate Mr. Voridis, or we'll be done tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u640	Let's finish tomorrow. And he's not the only one who spent time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u641	Let's go by late night.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u642	If the House agrees. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u643	As expected, while at the four meetings of the Committee on Social Affairs, in my view, it was sober and productive, today in plenary some Heads of Representation chose to raise tons and reproduce the well-known climate of destruction and responsibility for all the sufferings of this country. You are insulting the intelligence, ladies and gentlemen, of workers in the health system and of citizens when you say that the worst period for the health system is the present. There have been very specific examples of writing. And because Mr Vorides asked what you have done with serious, terrible and reforming these two years, the answer is, firstly, that we have done a very important reform of a social character, which was the universal coverage of uninsured citizens. This is a reform of the concept of social protection and the social state in the country. And for the first time - we have said it a thousand times and we will keep saying it, however much you do not like - the right to decent medical care for people from the labour, insurance and income situation of people has been disconnected. This is a very big cut. In addition, at a time when the system was actually at the edge of the operating black out, we made a laborious effort, we kept it up with injections of financial and human resources, which are undeniable. And because Mr Loverdos said that no recruitment has been carried out - they also question the recruitments that have been made - there are two thousand two hundred people with names, permanent staff - medical, paramedical, paramedical and administrative staff - who are already serving in public hospitals. Don't cause people's intelligence. The doctors and nurses in public hospitals know that. They've seen more people work. They've been relieved in their daily lives. The shifts and on-calls are better off. They know that. If you had any elementary contact with reality, you'd know! But you don't even have that elementary contact. And you have people and health officials who are criticising us for a Soviet model in the country and Bolshevikisation. That is the level of political controversy! In addition to these two thousand two thousand named people, there are about six thousand who have already been hired not with a permanent employment relationship, of course, but with multiple working relationships, with OAED-type conventions. And I'm opening a parentheses here to mention something that was a very big injection of human resources. We managed to hire three thousand people already on the basis of the final tables that the OAED chose. He didn't choose the Department of Health. We gave the needs to the structures of the country and the OAED from a table of thirty-six thousand who applied, with an entirely objective and mobilised procedure, chose three thousand people. And we will again proclaim the remaining nine hundred to four thousand, with a lower unemployment threshold, because some specialities and some areas were not covered. It's really insulting to talk about these people in such a disgraceful way. These people are nurses, they are other health professionals, they are manufacturers, they are auxiliary staff, of course, they are technical staff who have been hired. The attempt to say that this whole thing - that is, people who were in unemployment - is a party army, is insulting the intelligence of the unemployed. And to stop reproducing nonsense and misery, we tell you that of these three thousand thirteen recruited, only fifty-six are over sixty years old. It is shameful to say these things and that we take people weak to work. There is an ageing distribution, there are certain criteria which the OAED has and which no one has questioned. And these were unreservedly observed by the OAED, and we simply place the people that the OAED has indicated to us. I therefore think that this report is offensive to both the unemployed and the OAED itself, which is an organisation which, at a difficult time for the country with a prolonged crisis and with increased unemployment, is trying to meet much of the needs. And I come to the point of mental health. The case of psychiatric reform - we told the committees too - did not arise from virginity. From the "Physantental Leros colony - that was the name of the therapist, this hellhole", obviously, which was insulting to our country - founded in 1957, we reached the law of 1999, Law 2716, which was indeed an important reform section. This, ladies and gentlemen, was not because the political powers were aware of the value and social importance of this change, but because there were progressive, left-wing psychiatrists and health professionals, who gave a social movement to this demand for the transformation of asylum, the overcoming of immunity, the change of psychiatric for example, the emancipation of mental patients. And there have been many important steps. But there have also been problems, there have also been distortions and there has also been immunity, especially in the area beyond the public structures they have provided for decommissioning services. And because you ask us what we have done so long in mental health, I tell you that obviously, ladies and gentlemen, we did not expect the bill to be passed. What we have done - and we have already told the committees - is that, first, we saved the Department's Psychiatric Health Directorate, which you had just made a department. You thought that, at the level of the department, this whole system could be managed effectively. We have brought it back by legislation and it remains, of course, and it will also be in the new organization of the Ministry, which will soon be adopted. Secondly, we have closed the very long gap that existed in relation to Europe and the funding that we were committed to taking and we took through the Lykurenz-Ador Pact. That was very precarious, ladies and gentlemen, because the two years - 2013 to 2015 - which you have governed, did not go through any of the commitments made and there was a serious risk that the Communityists would ask us for the money back, these 110 million euros. And we went and convinced the Community because we had a plan because we presented the general idea that is reflected in this bill, because we went with a strategic plan, because we were convinced that we were willing to launch positive interventions in the mental health system. And what do we do? We also have three hundred posts, ninety-four of which are psychiatrists and child psychiatrists and the rest of the nurses and psychologists and psychologists after ten years of mental health professionals. We have also ensured the sustainability of structures for the NCIs, the IMIs and the NGOs, including in the state budget an additional allocation of EUR 51 million, not to provide money to the NGOs, but to ensure the care of thousands of de-worked mental patients and, of course, to ensure that the people working in this area are paid and paid for. In the operation of these structures, we put control over it. There is a 2013-2015 audit of the balance sheets. Yesterday, a ministerial decision was signed that sworn accountants will enter and control all these structures and give findings to the Ministry's political leadership. And those who manage good will obviously continue to be responsible for the structures. However, those who do not, the political leadership has shown that it has the political determination to get their permits. And because we do not want to leave out structures, people and workers, we are going through this arrangement for AEMY to be able to support them. This is the 'outside' that Mr Georgiadis said. We're not going to hire by way of derogation. The ability to poach and psalmology is known. By way of derogation, these structures will be kept under the umbrella of AEMY and the work of already servants and workers will be ensured. This is not a new recruitment. Also, at the end of 2016, we provided EUR 1.2 million with an exceptional grant to the FYROM. I hope that some of you know that it is a very important structure that has a two-fold role, and a therapy and developmental, re-entry for people. We support their ability to provide work, to produce social benefits. It was the first form of social cooperative organisation and social economy in the country, established by Law 2716/1999. We support it precisely because they provide all the benefits we have said before. Does the question arise, is it possible for an administrative reform to solve all the problems of the system? Apparently not. And there may also be risks and difficulties, which may be dysfunctional, there may be a great cost of time for these instruments to be formed and operated. We are committed that in the next few months the procedures will have gone ahead, but between the concentration and bureaucracy of the Directorate for Psychiatric Health, which is objectively - and beyond the disposal of officials who may be excellent - it cannot obviously respond to the need to supervise the whole system, with the scattered structures throughout the country, we have preferred the decentralised and democratic formation of these bodies and committees. Because we believe that when you give speech and role to people who know, who are sensitive, who have honesty and to people who have social availability, then the health system can only go ahead and not on high cheques. Mr Barriotta is being asked again about what we are going to do with psychiatric hospitals if the reform is to proceed. I guess he's not watching what we're talking about. We have said that we are fully committed and committed to this objective, because asylum, as we have said, is an area of freedom, incarceration and dehumanisation. This progressive vision of psychiatric reform can serve it seriously rather than by arbitrary and authoritarian interventions as it has done in the past, with good preparation, with a timetable and, in synergy with the Ministry of Labour, because we have explained that the European Union's demand is to move forward with the concept of expanded decommissioning, which includes both prognostic structures and not just mental health structures. As far as the centres of expertise are concerned, although there has been no talk today, I think it is a great investment in a new culture for the health system, which starts from these centres, which are very specific. It is a culture of documented care, certification, patient safety, quality care, a culture of ambulance care in the health system, which was very missing all the previous years. There are too many individual topics. We have explained and Paul Paulakis said enough about AEMY etc. There are very important provisions, which are usually not offered for communication, such as the National Public Health Council. This is a very important instrument and a great deficit which, in order to have an organised intervention on all the major issues of public health in the country, from vaccination to national action plans for HIV, hepatitis C, the reduction of microbial resistance, the treatment of obesity, and especially of childhood, smoking and others. The issue of the EOM of the National Transplant Organisation is also very important. We are going through a regulation, which gives additional incentives to transplant coordinators and can make it easier for our country to move forward in this part, where there is indeed a great deal of delay. We have also responded to the committees for RESAN. We've taken a first step in depopulation. We will bring in a very detailed arrangement, and this anonymous company will evolve into a documentary and costing centre for nursing services. It is another concept and it is very consistent with our election commitments and declarations. And because there was a lot of talk and that's why someone said that from the ten points said by Tsipras, nothing was implemented. Our two key commitments, ladies and gentlemen, to the health sector, were that, firstly, we will ensure universal access for citizens and, in particular, uninsured people to public services and that we have done so, and secondly, that we support public care as a priority. And for two years that's exactly what we've been doing systematically. As regards the case of the doctors of the PEDY, formerly IKA, Euratom and so on, I would remind you that at the time that Law 4238 had come, we said that what was needed was a reasonable transitional period, which we indicated would be around two years and not that state-of-the-art authoritarianism of Mr Georgiadis, who in a week had demanded that all the doctors be closed down. And that led to the exit of three thousand of them, and the primary care was completely disorganized. And, indeed, it is very hypocritical on this side to criticise the delay in addressing this pending issue. We, therefore, today, because we are interested in the functionality of these public structures, and we do not want to have a wave of fleeing, we give a sufficient and widening from our initial planning for a transitional period, but in the prospect of full and exclusive employment. Because that is what we believe to be the employment relationship that fits the public health system. However, there are always transitional measures in every regulation and there are provisions that need to be taken. And that is another culture, ladies and gentlemen. Because we've been respecting these people's work all these years. We recognise that they can still offer important specialised care services to a part of society, which has no other options at this time and cannot be addressed to the private sector. The prospect is, however, that. Of course, I will also refer to what we will do with the local health units, which we will discuss. You are also wrong when you say that we are going to go through reform of primary health care through an amendment. This was an amendment of a technical and working nature, so that the process of calling for interest and disbursement from the European funds can be initiated. Were we bad enough to use the NRP, the sectoral programmes of the Ministry of Administrative Reform and the regional RDPs to make a major reform intervention, when everyone says that this was the big deficit of the health system? I think only those who want to maintain today's status quo and today's immunity in the field of primary care can claim this. We have therefore chosen to invest in this part to be big reform and of course to make use of all available financial instruments both from the ESDP and from the Public Investment Programme and from the state budget. There is a strategic plan, which we have presented to the European Union, for a gradual change in the cash flow and for responsibility to take some time from the state budget. It is not our intention to get some resources and to stay all this system, which we believe will make a great change. There's an injustice in this story. We recognize that. They are the fellow doctors of the former IKA - EEA - who have indeed closed their doctorates in good time and are now under full-time and exclusive employment. For one thing, we have taken care of them as quickly as we could assimilate them on a payroll with the doctors of the ERC. We did that. What we are going to do - and I told the committees - is this. There will be arrangements that will enable them to assist the morning regular, the afternoon operation, the hospital surgery and the on-call, if necessary. This will be a compensation for these people, who are already full-time and full-time, against this injustice that for some people it has been extended for a long time, which was of course by court decisions, the functioning of their medical profession. You said too much. I obviously can't answer all this. But I think it is worth answering two or three interventions. Firstly, the reply of my colleague from Lefkada. There is obviously no basis for this debate. We have explained that the political plan for the abolition, shrinking, merger, abolition of beds, departments and hospitals that existed in the previous period is over. What we do is as much as we can distribute the few resources that our country has in a more rational manner and on the basis of the real needs. Therefore, such a prospect for the Lefkada Hospital does not exist. Today, ladies and gentlemen, in a hundred and fifty-six new positions of permanent ESS doctors we approved to be awarded, in addition to the eight hundred sixty which were given in the summer of 2016, three positions of qualified ESS doctors at the Lefkada Hospital are included. You don't call permanent doctors' seats in a hospital you want to shut it down. Be serious! Check both your sources and the websites you trust. It is a pathologist I position, a cardiologue caretaker position and a radiodiagnostic curator position II. That's it. I would also like to make a second point, which I think is of great importance. I don't know if he missed Mr. Economou, but if you understood well, what he told us here is that there is a pogrom of carats and redundancies both at the level of the administration of the system and at the level of the people who serve in hospitals.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u644	Who said that?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u645	Mr. Economou.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u646	That was not the case.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u647	Mr. Economou said he would send out the commanders chosen by a process that lasted about six to eight months. And obviously if things were as you say they are, they are party-sitting, they would not take that long. After all, we were used to it in the past, when each government took over to cartoon all the previous ones, without ever discussing it - it was an obvious political right - and then, at the very most, there was no debate about the next ones being hired. So we were doing a process to evaluate and remove 85% of the administrators who were serving in hospitals when we took over - and this was about a year later - and of course we put in a serious process which, ladies and gentlemen, we have now taken care of what you say - has ensured that the three of the four managers have postgraduate diplomas and doctorates in health services and health finances. These are our statistics, and these are the guarantees of dignity. Approximately 70% of them are either doctors and workers of the public health system or are serving in the general public sector. We have therefore not received a party army of unemployed and unemployed and failed states and candidates to put in hospitals, but we have chosen people who are flesh from the flesh of the system, as we did in health regions. We have chosen people who have an organic relationship and have a commitment to public care, precisely to serve a different political plan. In the same memorandum, priority in public care, subsidiarity in the private sector, respect for workers' rights, respect for the rights and dignity of patients, with universality in access, with equal and quality care. This is the different political project which, ladies and gentlemen, you can't even think about, because you don't really believe in people's equality, you don't believe in people's emancipation, but you believe in market competition and the free economy, which has led to health poverty, a very large part of society. And in times of real material poverty for the citizens of the country, this government has tackled and actively tackled health poverty. I would like to say one last thing, which I think I owe Mr Georgiadis. He said too much. He has said these days incredible inaccuracies, including the incomprehensible, really, approach, which says that for the balance sheets, profits and losses of a company, the political leadership of a ministry that invoices medicines is responsible. As if we do not know that large multinationals have the possibility through triangular transactions, through multiple legal and irregular ways of taxing and indicating their income and profits in one country. What does this have to do with a company's cigarette? And apparently there's variability because new medications are in place, they're injecting drugs that are important for malignancies, for autoimmune diseases, for people with rare diseases. What exactly do you say to us about every company that approves a new medicine and heals people? Obviously, we have a responsibility to put the correct pricing and authorisation and inclusion procedures on the positive list. And that is what we will do with the HTA criteria, which we incorporate these days and bring them to the vote. But what does the turnover have to do with this guy's incomprehensible comparisons? In 2014, NOVARTIS was damaged and in 2015 it received profits. A terrible political argument from the former Minister for Health. Because with this "NOVARTIS" story, the debate has been very open and because people in the close environment of the Health Ministers of the previous period and Mr. Georgiadis, who acknowledged that he had an informal counselor that is seen by the prosecution authorities and by the justice that explores the scandal, that he played a central role, let's lower the tone and see the findings of this check. I wish it had been shown that the political system had not put its hands on this party of the explosion of pharmaceutical expenditure, which goes back at least decades to 15 years and especially at the time that this invoicing was done in the Ministry of Development and Trade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u648	Finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u649	I shall conclude, Mr President. The question also came up, why did we not invoke invoicing in the first half of 2015.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u650	All in 2015.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u651	In the first half of 2015. The second half took place in December 2015. Because obviously, ladies and gentlemen, we did not have conditions of regularity at the time in the country because it was even precarious in Europe because it was a very tough negotiation that resulted in a painful compromise, because we had very important priorities produced by the capital controls and we had to ensure that citizens had access to medicines, the proper functioning of the market, the functioning of the pharmaceutical/reservoirs etc. [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis, takes over the presidential office.]] But what matters is that, when normality came back, this government made three price notes, and these three price notes, according to the general confession of the entire pharmaceutical market, were the first price notes made with absolute transparency, with the disclosure of the data, with clear rules, with clear discussions and negotiations on the table, without the interventions of the informal consultants who corrected the price notes from their computers and sent them to the Ministry's responsible address. A little, then, modest. Let us also let justice do its job and do what we are forced to do, in other words shield the system by making two critical interventions. To create a mechanism for evaluating pharmaceutical innovation and prescribing medicines - this is promoted in consultation with the institutions and we will legislate very soon - and, above all, strengthen the institution of negotiating expensive medicines for negotiating the price of compensation. That was the great deficit in your policy, ladies and gentlemen. You have cut horizontally, closed the budget, obviously the public spending has been restrained, but structural measures have never been taken. So we are now doing and pushing two critical structural interventions, and this is a reform section of the drug as well.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u652	Minister, will you please finish?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u653	I would also like to say one last thing about Mr. Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u654	We've given you more than eighteen minutes than you deserved.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u655	You're absolutely right, and I'm really sorry, but I feel like a lot of...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u656	Forgive me, but in a minute you'll close.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u657	Good, good. I wanted to say another peak, but I'll leave it for another conversation. Ladies and gentlemen, the history of the reform of the health system is a very painful story. First of all, you specifically abused this concept in the Memorandum of Understanding, like other concepts, of course, evaluation, modernisation, but in particular reforms to ensure social consensus and alliances, in order to ensure the critical mass of social and political consensus, need credibility. They need political credibility, they need people who, in particular, need health care and health care systems to understand that they really are trying, they really are working under adverse conditions to ensure the survival, stabilisation, the moralisation of the system and its reform. And these are no more than left-wing people, people from hospitals, people who today largely manage the management of the health system, who have a good witness outside and who no one can blame them for using the HSY for foreign purposes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u658	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, twenty-eight students and students and three educational attendants from the 2nd Litohoros Pieria Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] In order to complete the cycle of the parliamentary representatives as far as their prototypes are concerned, they have to speak with Mr Mandas and Mr Kefaliannis. Warm request has been made by Mrs Theodora Megalo-Economics for five to six minutes to answer for her to leave. Then let's go to Mr. Manda and Mr. Kefaliannis or Mr. Kefaliannis and Mr. Manda, there's no question. We are entering the cycle of seconds for those who so wish, both at the level of rapporteurs and special speakers, and at the level of parliamentary representatives. It will be closed by one of the two Ministers not with another thirty-six minutes, so I hope at a reasonable time that we will be done. Mrs. Big Housekeeper, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u659	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to thank my fellow Members, but I have an obligation in the WEU. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in my prototype I spoke in detail about the general health situation and, in particular, about mental health and, above all, about the problems that urgently require immediate solutions. Before I go into the individual arrangements, I would like to express my strong concern about the constitutionality of many articles. I shall refer in detail to Articles 1(10), 6 KC'(b), 7(5), 19(b), 20(c), 62(3) and (4), 91 and 94. The relevant consideration is not formulated by me but by the Scientific Service of the House in the report on the draft law. I'm afraid, Minister, this will be something that we'll finally find in front of us. Allow me at this stage to raise the objections and concerns of the Central Association for some of the individual arrangements. First of all, Article 26 comes as a follow-up to the 2014 regulations by the co-government of New Democracy - PASOK. He had then been asked to choose between his post and the exercise of the profession. Then, as you recall, some doctors and dentists reacted and exercised the legal remedies provided for. Today the regulation of Article 16 comes to give a second chance to these doctors, but the article does not cover anyone else who might wish to finally join the ESS, but under the pressure of the extortionist then they were actually blackmailed out. So given that this second chance is given to only some doctors and dentists, we can no longer fully agree. We believe that there should also be a second opportunity for those who did not go through legal proceedings, but who have opened up medicine and perhaps also because of the crisis. They must also be given a second chance to join the ERC as well. Nor can we agree with Article 48 and the new provisions on the Public Health Units Company, which is because AEMY is structured and there is a risk that it will be transformed into a new CEDEFOP, with what this entails. Therefore, as a Union of Centres, we cannot support such practices. Then we disagree with the insistence that 100% of the Hospital Remuneration System under Article 49 remain in the Greek State. Of course it is required to maintain the majority of the public, but we are more positive about a mixed share structure. Similarly, we do not welcome Article 50 and the way the medical service operates at the Hellenic Center of Blood, since we consider this to be a rather photographic provision that less serves the needs of public health and, above all, creates for the normalisation of a particular person. I shall now refer to Rule 53. You are, in fact, giving an incentive to the staff of the EOF, but you should have appropriate arrangements...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u660	This article was withdrawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u661	Okay. Maybe I wasn't in the Chamber and I didn't hear it. Thank you. In relation to the last provisions of the bill concerning insurance matters, I would like to reiterate the consistent position of the Central Association for the abolition of the Katorugalos Law and the restoration of the injustices resulting from this law. As I mentioned, Mr. Katrugalos' bill was not insurance, but it was tax, and we need to review it from the beginning. There are too many injustices in too many areas. On this point, let me comment on some of the key amendments that we have been discussing today. First of all, we do not disagree with Amendment No 952/63, which relates to the technical assistance of the Ministry of National Defence for the immediate housing of minors. We do agree, since the Ministry will conclude contracts with third parties for works and supplies of goods always within the legal framework for signing public contracts with private individuals. On the contrary, we do not agree with Amendment No 955/66, which prohibits any hemorrhaging of biological materials other than private diagnostic laboratories. Despite the fact that the provision seems to be trying to ensure public health and the proper preservation and preservation of blood samples, a big issue will arise for people who are devastated and unable to walk. I, for example, have a personal issue with my mother who is ninety - three years old and cannot move and is hemorrhaging at home. There are also remote areas. These categories of Greeks - which are many - will actually remain without access to blood tests. So we can only disagree with such a provision. We are therefore in complete disagreement with Amendment No 962/70, which increases the rates of overtime overtime on the wages of civil servants, since according to the explanatory statement this is done with social sensitivity and in a spirit of justice. However, it is clear that this is an entirely voting order to thank, Minister, a certain category of officials who are entitled to such overtime and while the country constantly makes cuts from everywhere, even from the very low pensioners. Obviously, we will vote against this amendment. On the contrary, we welcome Amendment No 967/73 by Mr Mitterafides, in relation to the naturalisation of children, grandchildren, etc., of Jewish origin. It's fair and reasonable. As a whole, the Central Association will vote in favour of the bill, but we will vote against the provisions that we have analysed either as incorrect, photographic or as voters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u662	Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy Mr. Yiannis Kefaloyannis has the floor for his protagonist.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u663	Thank you, Mr President. I will not use twice as much time as the Minister, but perhaps I need a little tolerance from the Bureau, because a lot of issues have been raised. I shall begin, ladies and gentlemen, by the fact that we have once again seen a shameful procedure for this House. Amendments are again tabled to the effect half an hour before the end of the sitting and I refer to Nos 978 and 979. I am sure that you too, Minister, really, feel a disgrace in this process, because you realise that even if we want to discuss these amendments in substance, we cannot. I have not actually come into play because, in fact, due to the lack of time it is not possible. This should not even be accepted by the Bureau. We've denounced it many times. We have again seen a number of delayed amendments. But this thing half an hour before the end of the meeting comes again two new ministerial amendments, which, in fact, ladies and gentlemen, does not look forward to honouring this House. Indeed, since one wants to sanctify, one cannot in this Chamber with regard to the procedures, unfortunately once again see in the bill, elements of the legislative procedure on the SYRIZA Government, which he denounced as opposition, are being observed. For example, it is not the first time that the title of the bill, Minister, characterizes only a small part of it. Only the first eighteen articles are characterised by the title of the bill. All the other eighty articles are other provisions. We have seen this recently - so that I do not personally blame you - and the State Certificate of Language, but in this bill, 4/5 are the other provisions. Unfortunately, it is not just a fragmentary way of legislating on the part of the government, but, as I have said before, it is also a slap once again. All these ministerial amendments, I repeat, actually amend the provisions that you have voted on - I mean, as a government - the provisions of the last two years, the laws of your own government SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks. And, in fact, I would like to address the Members of the House and say to them: either you do not know what you are voting for and you come after three or four months to legislate differently, or the way in which you legislate is so rough that, in fact, it leaves us all speechless. We were used to governments changing and amending provisions of previous governments. You are perhaps the only government in the history of the place that you come and amend after two, three, four months' time provisions that you have passed, the government majority within the House. And so that we do not forget our main role, ladies and gentlemen, we are legislators. We should at some point admit - and in particular admit - that you are wrongly legislated in this way. At some point this thing has to stop. Before entering the bill, you will allow me two - three introductory remarks, since they were raised by the Ministers. As far as Mr Polakis is concerned - he is absent, but I imagine he will return - that everything is well in this country with the SYRIZA - ANEL and that everything went well in the health sector, I would really like him to reply to me - when he comes back to the Chamber from now on. We have seen too many incidents in Greece, where unfortunately there are malfunctions. I recently visited Zakynthos. The Zakynthos, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, has closed the surgery since December. The Ministry has set up a committee to investigate the reasons why the surgery is not working. It is the doctors who are slandered and accused by the local MP and top government minister, Mr. Kontonis in particular, that it is the fault of those who are not open. Mr Paulakis, specifically in the Committee on Social Affairs, said that early February, namely the first week of February, the surgery in Zakynthos would be open. We're in the middle of March, and unfortunately it's closed. If Mr Paulakis does not come to answer, Mr Xanthi, I would like an answer to this question, because as you know, there is. As regards the issue of the governors, which you have also raised, I think the popular phrase 'at the house of the hanged man doesn't speak of rope' fits here glove. The S.H.E.'s decision. it was specific, convicted, so let's leave it and keep tons low. I would like to make one last political comment on the price report. You will allow me to tell you that more has been heard as an excuse for the first half of 2015, because for this anomaly, the irregularity as you described it, you also have the key responsibility. Not you personally, I mean your government. Because you ruled in the first half of 2015, the capital controls were imposed on your own government, and I am passing away, they were imposed in July 2015, so the justification that 'you know, we did not get a price report in the first half of the year because we had the capital controls', I think it was not true. There was a difficulty, indeed, in 2015, but I think you have a full responsibility, along with the Europeans who were in the negotiation of that period, and you cannot say that as a government you are unresponsible. Now I come to the bill, and since our rapporteur was very detailed, I will only refer to two articles and talk about the amendments. With regard to the article on the electronic interconnection of medical clubs,...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u664	I am trying, Minister, and I will only ask you political questions and you know, because of the personal relationship we have, that I will not go into personal disputes. I am trying, Minister, to understand this article, what this provision is for and why, in fact, the Pan-Hellenic Medical Association is given this possibility, that is to say, to issue this certificate of proper exercise of the medical profession. And with all the members of medical clubs I have at least discussed personally, I find that it certainly does not serve them and put them in a process - I would say - bureaucratic madness, because look at what it means. A doctor, for example from Crete who is applying for this certificate, will make the application to the local association, the local association will have to pass it on to the Panhellenic Medical Association, the Panhellenic Medical Association should somehow send it, or he himself should go to Athens at his own expense, so you can understand that this whole thing certainly creates additional bureaucracy and expenses for doctors as I understand it. And I think that this centralisation does not serve to simplify the procedures for which your own government has committed itself. Secondly, transfer of personal data. The point is that this is without the written consent of doctors. And let me tell you something else. After you wanted to put this provision, why didn't you leave it in voluntary consultation of the medical clubs with the Panhellenic Medical Association? You are actually imposing this provision and I think the majority of doctors will tell you the same thing. I'm coming to article 48 for the Anonymous Health Units Company. Here, really, I don't know where to start. It seems to me that you are exploiting the fact that an anonymous company is not subject to public accounting, that is to say it has no cost precaution, and a well-meaning person will tell you that as a government you are creating a vehicle that can be exploited, I will not say from you personally but from a future Minister for Direct Awards, for works contracts or leases of work indefinitely and of course by direct choice of natural persons, and that is because of the fact that it is a public limited company. Of course I also overlook the fact that you intend to take staff away from health services, who as you well know are under-represented. You are also able to coordinate and implement programmes from the Asylum and Migration Fund, I suppose, obviously, for the psychological and social support of refugees. Let us say, of course, on this occasion that this fund has not even been disbursed until now. But even if we overlook all these remarks, you know very well that the work of psychosocial support is still being done today through NGOs, who are official partners of the European Union, such as Doctors Without Borders, the Red Cross, the UN High Commissioner for the Environment. And I ask. Do all of these have less experience than the anonymous company you're creating? Secondly, with which structure and what staff will we actually have and will this company, when we have this "archipelago" in the essence of camps across Greece? Thirdly, the Asylum Fund for Immigration has a body to implement the Ministry of the Interior, namely the Greek Police and not the Ministry of Health. So this anonymous company will not be able to coordinate and implement programmes from the Asylum Fund. At best, ladies and gentlemen, all it can do is to participate as a competition for electronic tenders in the provision of social and psychological support services. I shall now go to the great amendments. I am starting with Amendment No 962/70, which, in our view, badly claims to regulate health issues. And I say 'awkward', Minister, because paragraph 2 says that 60% and 75% of the hourly wage is paid respectively for nights, Sundays and exceptional days, but as I understand it, it concerns the entire public sector and not just those that are closely there. If there's anything else to say. It is an expense that I think it is undetermined and unfortunately burdens the state budget at a very difficult time for the country, when the evaluation has not been closed and, of course, this is something that needs to be assessed. I shall make one clarification for paragraph 3. I would like to ask him why the newspapers of these hospitals, i.e. Kilkis, Hippocrates, Thessaloniki, Chania and Heraklion Hospitals appear to be not lawful.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u665	She's retired.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u666	Has he finally retired?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u667	She's retired and will be extended with other hospitals...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u668	All right, all right. I come to the amendment with general number 964 and a special 71. Our opinion on this particular amendment is that it is greatly weakening the incentive of the two-year contract given to a doctor to serve as an advisor to the health units in the region, which, as you well know, have a great deal of subsistence and obviously a doctor who has to choose between Athens and the region, of course, will choose Athens. As regards the amendment, with a general number of 954 and a special 65, you will be able to obtain the expertise of the clinical microbiologist without examinations within six months. And you do so, because there is not, as I read in the amendment, a sufficient number of trainers to train the trainees. But here I must ask you a few questions, Mr Minister. Their colleagues who have read, worked and passed the tests, I think they have the reasonable question why this unequal treatment is taking place. Secondly, let us take into account, for example, that you have two biopathologists who have been working in recent years and have acquired the expertise five years ago. One is at the NSA and the other is in the private sector at a diagnostic center. If the second one decides to leave the ER... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I would like your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u669	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u670	One doctor will call a biopathologist clinical microbiologist. Will the other have that name?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u671	Single name for everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u672	Single name for everyone. Welcome and clarify it. Third, uh...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u673	Mr. Kefaliannis, just a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u674	I'll let you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u675	I would like you to clarify to me a little bit outside the contract, when you are going to secondaryly, Minister, if it is true that there are two very specific persons who actually benefit from this amendment. I, because I have not checked my complaint, am not going to refer to the names of the people, because I have a reservation. So I want you to tell me how many people this amendment relates to. Continue, Mr. Kefaliannis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u676	It concerns three centres in particular, Mr President, which give specialty...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u677	If you'll excuse me, then you'll have to withdraw it and rethink it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u678	...and it's the proposal of these scientific companies...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u679	It's not the Microbiological Society, it's the ones that's interested. And I regret that you confirm to me that this is a photographic device for specific persons. I was expecting you to disprove me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u680	But three centers are specializing right now. What can we do now?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u681	So you take responsibility for learning the faces too. Continue, Mr. Kefaliannis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u682	I'm going on, Mr. President. As far as the amendment is concerned, with a general number of 955 and a special 66 in paragraph 2, Mr Minister, you are taking another responsibility for the local medical clubs, who have, until now, been authorised to operate in blood establishments other than diagnostic laboratories. So what do you actually say to a doctor? That if you want to expand your activity beyond fifteen miles and possibly cover a population in a mountainous tumor, where there is no diagnostic centre, then you should actually do a second laboratory. And what do you say to an elderly patient? That in order to cover a long distance and go to a city center to give blood, you also have to pay extra money. We believe that with this regulation that you are bringing, you are actually geographically blocking the profession, invoking only unfair competition. We believe that in this way, you are actually favouring the most strong in the sector that have the potential to open up a second workshop. And the question is this: Since these areas meet the requirements for the conduct of haemorrhages and storage of biological materials, what is the reason for this to be banned? Why don't you, for example, ban the home hemorrhaging carried out by diagnostic centres? Is that not unfair competition? I come to the amendment with a general number 953 and a special 64. The question raised by other colleagues is why the Vice-Presidents are involved, if there is, that is, obviously, a problem of setting up the services councils and, if so, why. Secondly, are you referring to Vice-Presidents in general and vaguely or to specific Vice-Presidents? Is there a problem of setting up the services councils and the single legal entities governed by public law? With regard to Amendment No 952 and a special 63 on technical assistance from the Ministry of National Defence for the creation of accommodation structures for unprotected and unaccompanied minors, as you know very well, ladies and gentlemen, this is not the first time that this amendment has come to this House. A month and a half ago Co-population MPs had tried to bring her back. And it is, in fact, notable that the micro-participatory exploitation, in our view, and the clandestineness with which it has come to Parliament and the exploitation of a case of real pain and human misery, has taken place. Like then, so now, this amendment is proof of the failure of the competent bodies to regulate this really sensitive issue. And since the competent bodies cannot regulate it, the army, which has become the MOMA, to deal with the refugee crisis, comes once again. We will vote against it for two reasons. Firstly, because we regard it as another vehicle for direct assignments and services to both sides and, secondly, because, contrary to what the amendment claims, this money at the end will again be called upon to cover it and not the European fund, for which the Ministry of National Defence is not the beneficiary.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u683	You need to finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u684	I shall conclude, Mr President. As far as Amendment No 969 is concerned, we are positive. We do not vote in favour of Amendment No 945 and Amendment No 58 for the following two reasons. Firstly, because the general classification of the unemployed in groups is at the reverse of the qualitative evaluation of their characteristics with a view to a more rational and better connection to the labour market. Secondly, while these programmes provide for the AACC to check either on a sample or on a complaint or objection to the legality of recruitment, you are actually coming and limiting the role of the AACC and you do not justify this matter at all. Finally, for the amendment of general number 949 and special number 60, what can be said first? In addition to the organisational insufficiency, the circulars, the laws, the double contributions which insured persons are required to pay, the wrong debit notes, it is revealed that ELSTAT cannot find the rate for calculating pensions and for recalculating the old ones. You were committed, ladies and gentlemen of the government, last December, that by October of this year, 2017, hundreds of two thousand people will receive their pensions. And we are about three - three and a half months later, if you do the division, you should have received your pension of thirty thousand and no one has received your pension. For the eighty-nine million euros which are available to pensioners and which need them, the procedures have also not been initiated.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u685	Mr. Kefaliannis, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u686	I will only report, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u687	I won't give you as much second-guessing time as you have, I tell you in advance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u688	I will simply make a reference to the amendment that he has tabled - and thankfully he is here - Mr Mitafidis. Because, to us at least, we have no institutional proposal from the Jewish community or from the Central Israeli Council, you really need to tell us about it, so that no one can find a bad option to say that this amendment is photographic.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u689	It was done in collaboration with the Israeli community...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u690	Okay, just like a party hasn't come. We will be positive if we have this institutional demand.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u691	It is also a request from the Municipality of Thessaloniki.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u692	Yes, all right. After that clarification, we are positive.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u693	Finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u694	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'm done.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u695	Mr. Mada, you have the floor and you will have the same tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u696	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I, too, would like to applaud my colleagues if Mr Kefaloniann, as a Parliamentary representative of the New Democracy, had said a word about what happened in this Chamber today. And what happened and I think it is critical, politically critical, I mean, is that for two or three times if I am not mistaken, the New Democracy health officer reiterated that he would fall "h". That's what he said. He said he would fall "h" in the administrations and in the hiring of cleaners, OAED, assistant staff, etc., as a superior to any S.A. He'll clean it up. Look, ladies and gentlemen. If this is how you think or think you have any future, especially in the health field, your policy, I think you are wrong. And I think there is still time and room for you finally to clarify what the New Democracy policy is on this issue. You will allow me now to go to the bill because I consider myself an organic part of the psychiatric community, in the broadest sense, as I have served in this area decades, and from the position of doctor of the ESS and from the position of university doctor - it is an area that I feel and I can also contribute to improving things and because I monitor policies, especially in the field of mental health and less dependency for many years now - to have this personal tone. First of all, I would like to take this opportunity to say a thank you for the work that many people have done to establish the draft law on the administrative reform of the mental health system and, of course, to the head of the committee responsible, Professor Thomas Textis. I think they did a very serious job, which, of course, also through the consultation and debate procedure in Parliament, was improved on the points that one would say there were well-founded objections and well-founded suggestions to simplify the system, to be more effective, to be more democratic and to liberate itself from procedures which may narrow some margin. However, there is no doubt - and I think we have kept very low tons on this issue - that, over time, anyone who really wanted to see things progress, in all evaluations of the psychiatric reform programmes, one of the key issues identified is the intermediate structure of the administrative system, namely, the failure to manage the system effectively and to allow the mental health department to play a more strategic and more effective role. In these evaluations carried out by scientists prestige - and I do not think there is any doubt on this part of Parliament - this was one of the critical issues where there was a clear position that it should be corrected. And that's correcting. Because now, especially at the regional level, with the regional councils that have decisive responsibilities, I think that issues are resolved and I think it is clear from the provisions on mental health themselves that the issues in which deficits exist, for example, the secretarial support for these structures is guaranteed. At this stage we may not be able to give any more incentive beyond the fifteen-day permits given by the bill to members of the sectoral committees. I think, however, that in the future we may indeed have the room to give the extra incentive. I would also like to address people working in the mental health system, psychiatrists, psychologists, nurses, nurses and other staff. Because all the people who work in this space from the first to the last to the purgatory of the department have a role as a team in this system. And I would like to address an invitation and say this. This administrative reform, which is obviously - and we have not claimed anything different - is a very specific measure which is faced with a problem of the administration of the system, which does not solve all the other problems by magic and which is why it is also accompanied by other interventions. The Minister referred to this - I do not want to eat the time - that is to say, the strengthening of human resources by the three hundred invitations of permanent people to the mental health system. But there are other measures that we are taking. For example, the treatment carried out by the Ministry of Health and Justice in Article 69 for the inappropriate, but also the work done on involuntary hospitals. All these interventions are a product of great effort, many people and especially people from the field of mental health. So I think that all this is a challenge, first of all, for people working in the mental health system for a relaunch. We will have, in other words, - and I believe that - in 2017 a change of image, in particular, with the opening of psychiatric departments in general hospitals. We will have a change of image in the psychiatric care system and an opportunity to move much more decisively into psychiatric reform, namely, the sectoral provision of psychiatric services to the community. That's the core, if you want, of all this effort. I would also like to add that some of the comments that have seen the light of publicity, I think they are wrong even for those who write them. I am not talking about the issue of taking advantage of the Golden Dawn. The Minister has answered this very clearly. I am, however, talking about other interventions that dare to say - and I am using a strong expression - that this psychiatric reform enshrines the mental health system. I think that this concept is completely out of reality and that view and I wished to point it out from this step too. I therefore call on those colleagues who may have seen this step with a different eye, to revise their views and, indeed, to make a real contribution to moving forward. Because - and now I will also make my criticism to the Ministers - we have, ladies and gentlemen, been delayed, and so we have to be seen - and we are going to check on this - very quickly in the implementation of this reform. You will feel our breath on your neck, especially on this issue, and I say it with full consciousness, because I think that this plan has all the potential to move forward and to make, in fact, a lead in the field of mental health, where we obviously have serious deficiencies and we must take very fast steps and a whole lot of action in this field, particularly in the area of psychiatric care for children and adolescents, where we have even greater problems and we are on a difficult path. I dedicated most of my speech to what I think is the key part in this bill. I would like to say that if you look objectively at the whole bill and if you are an objective judge, apart from any differences, you will see that the whole of the provisions are in a positive direction. To accept that we still have problems in the procedures. Yeah, we do. There is the issue of the amendments and how they come at the last minute, and it is a bill that is several months in consultation. We must be more good, yes, but I do not think there is any doubt about the whole of the provisions that they are in a positive direction. They regulate real problems, give solutions and answers, and that will also be seen in the vote on articles, where I think that much of Parliament will vote on many articles from this bill. Of course - and this is quite clear, the challenges are before us - many things at government legislative level, with the top theme of reform in primary health care, which I hope, as you said, Mr Ministers, will come to the consultation and will also have its own dynamics. I shall close, Mr President, as follows. It is clear that today's evening at the start of the European elections, with the results of the Dutch elections and all that has happened in the past and will also take place in the coming months, give the image of a transition, which is unknown where it will go to the European level. It is clear that we are in an extremely fluid landscape, and what I would like to say above all: As long as at European level dogmatic dedications to austerity are prevailing, all they bring are major problems, which do not give any productive way out, which recycles very hard things for the vast majority of European citizens, this vicious circle of austerity, firstly, but also the democratic denomination of decisions at European level, are, if you like, those that fuel the far-right rhetoric and that direction is returning sharply to Europe's level. In these circumstances, therefore, it has a truly symbolic value for the Greek Parliament today to adopt the parliamentary amendment brought by Mr Mitafidis, a companion of the old, Mr Mitafidis. I think it is a move that points to a direction that also matters to symbols in it. Of course I will conclude by saying that all this time in a green landscape there are from the Greek side - which gives a tough battle to the negotiation - points which we must not ignore, such as Mrs Noui's statements on the banking system and work that has been done over these two years and on the level of capital adequacy of banks, etc., such as Commissioner Moscovisi's statements in relation to the reintroduction of collective bargaining, such as the achievements at the cost of social achievements of these primary surpluses, which give opportunities to our negotiating effort. And, finally, we must also say to all partners and lenders and, above all, to the side of the International Monetary Fund clearly, to say clear positions, to achieve a good result, a sustainable social result, which will open up prospects through negotiation. All other words about the constant demand that comes and comes back for elections, which the country will breathe, about the money that is falling and we are holding an umbrella and all of this, I think that they do not make a serious contribution to this effort that the country is doing. To say the least, they're going rather to the side of the farce, I'd say, a verbal caricature, which has no real content. In conclusion, I say that with this bill, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office, I think we are taking a serious, very serious step forward in the area of mental health reform. I think we are giving very serious messages and giving the opportunity too, and this is an opportunity - and I would like to end with it - with a call to mental health professionals, recipients of mental health services and their families, to contribute together, to being able to obtain flesh and bones at the same time as our efforts, very systematic and very persistent, to solve the other problems of this area in a prospect of moving forward with the mental reform. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u697	European psychiatrists, normally, should have taken action, but you did not say so. You said a thousand more about Europe, that's what you had to say. We're on our way and we're going in alternating. First, Mrs Merope Jufi, if she wants to take a second step, and then a parliamentary representative. Because Mr. Kefaliannis and Mr. Mandas have just spoken, I will start with Mr. Loverdos and you will be in love. Those who want to be second-guessed, those who don't want to be second-guessed. Mrs. Jufi has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u698	I'll try to keep time and keep him out of it. After all, I have had the opportunity to speak about the bill in my first speech, which was in a consensual climate, because that was what came from the committees and, in my opinion, from an interactive debate. Of course, today has come to a different conclusion and I will have to say a few things in a different direction, because I am particularly disturbed, when colleagues speak without limits on populism, on rhetoric, and indeed on people who handled public affairs from key, central and decisive positions and, in fact, some people from the outset of 1997. The most sincere of them, of course, also talked about unreasonable policies, such as those followed in the drug, which increased exorbitant health costs and could in themselves have led to the Memorandum. However, we have not been told who has implemented these unreasonable policies. The two well-known political sites that are now indulging us for the destruction of the health system, interchangeably but also in a good understanding and cooperation. They constantly discover strife and ruffles without proof, but I think this is a very big problem, because people are also targeted, but, of course, the headship of the Ministry of Health. For example, it came for discussion in the Committee on Social Affairs as a photographic provision, the provision for the National Center for Blood and when the answer was posted, which said that there was a corresponding recommendation from the Board of Directors of the EMCDDA since 2011, which provided for this necessary position of scientific director, did not ask for apologies when in committee, in fact, they " photographed" of certain people. I think we should be much more careful when we make such arguments. Another example is that they spoke about private clinics, saying that there were photographic provisions there, and that is why those who systematically mentioned - as they proved - the dialogue - were aiming at the deterioration of public health when on their governments the private health system and the profits of private clinics and medical centers were developed and increased. Today, too, we have heard some 'rusphetological' regulations. I do not understand the one which referred to the 'October'. I don't know where that arrangement exists. And the other one was referring to the doctors of the TED. The Democratic Reconciliation, for example, did not understand what the solution it proposes is, while on the side of the New Democracy it was heard by a colleague that we were creating many-speed doctors, while the rapporteur confessed that these different working relationships have existed for four years, and what we have been trying to do is to find that transitional route to rationalise and regulate and lead to a single employment relationship, if possible throughout the national health system, full and exclusive employment. So I think we all need to be much more careful, especially when we talk about ruffles and photographic devices. We also asked whether we were proud of the on-call status in hospitals. Ladies and gentlemen, I, too, think that other non-professionals in politics have served, like other colleagues I am not the only one - for some thirty years in the public hospital, making an active on-call in a large hospital and with experience of this experience to tell you that, in fact, many of these on-calls are too hard for both workers and citizens. I would remind you, however, that for many years at the end of the year, these on-calls were not paid until May of the following year and there had to be repeated workers' mobilisation to be paid, but then this matter was not raised on the WTO agenda, which today makes all these negative happening systematic depreciation and slandering of the National Health System by means of a declaration of the Ministry of Health leadership. I will say that what we have achieved in previous legislatures and now, is to pay these little things, on-calls and at nights, on time, to give previous legislation and even with this bill retrospective wages, which were arbitrarily cut off by your hospital administrations, making a good economy in the health system and increasing even marginally the budget in hospitals and in the U.S.. You also talked about party armies. I don't know exactly where these party armies are. I imagine you are not referring to recruitment, which, for the first time in many years, takes place in the National Health System. You are obviously not referring to the hundreds of eighty-seven new rescuers of the EMCDDA, to the two hundred and fifty doctors of permanent staff who have already been serving in hospitals and health centres, to the seventy-seven new permanent posts of CEDEFOP doctors approved by the Ministry of Health, to the eight hundred and fifty-five employees in permanent hospitals and other staff posted since the 2015 notices, to the fifty-three doctors and ninety-one nurses with a two-year contract of work through CEDEFOP for the ICED and the MENN, to the thirty-three posts concerning health care and other staff in the Santorini Hospital and, obviously, I hope you are not referring to the already serving two thousand-sixty-sixty-seven assistant doctors. Finally, a small comment on these notices of the four thousand long-term unemployed in the public health system.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u699	And you're closing up with this, aren't you?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u700	Yeah. There was a very long debate on this notice and I would say in the wrong way. In fact, today, we are also called upon to vote for Mrs Antonopoulou's amendment, which reduces the time spent on long-term unemployment, to enable people to take up the vacant posts that have been left out there who can help the system. I think it is a completely wrong way to spread people, who, in fact, being unemployed many years and older, are looking for a job in the public hospital as well and who, as an assistant, can actually help. Why can a great woman not respond to the duties of an assistant? I think that, in fact, this is something that hurts us all, and I think it should not be approached in this way. Finally, I would like to say two words about this regulation on medical clubs that I did not understand, Mr President, why it has come now. So, in the committees, there was a very positive one...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u701	Why are you asking me? The ministers ask.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u702	I ask the colleagues, anyway, who have raised the matter. Because the committees themselves came the representative of the Pan-Hellenic Medical Association, and I did not hear any questions being asked and no negative judgment was expressed. I don't know what happened next. It refers to the electronic interconnection of medical clubs with the Panhellenic Medical Association. What's the problem? That the Panhellenic Medical Association will acquire an integrated database of all the data of doctors, given that doctors today, with the release of the medical profession you have done, can they practice the profession throughout Greece and everywhere? So there may be a doctor who is written at the Ioannina Medical Association, performing the profession in Rhodes, calling for a serious disciplinary misconduct and not knowing how to look for him and how to find him and where he is written and how to deliver the responsibilities. I think, in fact, that I do not understand what this is about.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u703	Mrs. Jufie, please, close up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u704	I'm hanging up. It was, after all, an obligation, which is legally provided for, to interact with the data of the medical clubs with the Panhellenic Medical Association. This is also absolutely necessary, because otherwise this certificate of good practice cannot be issued, if one exercises the profession, as before, to more than one medical association. And here, from what I read, because I have the Card of the Pan-Hellenic Medical Association in front of me...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u705	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u706	I'm hanging up with this.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u707	Another tolerance of double the time. I can't leave it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u708	Yeah, I'm done. It says that the decision has been taken for some time, has been submitted to the Ministry of Health and is well known to the members. In any case, I do not understand why this whole issue has been created. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u709	Because I spent nine years Secretary General of the Pan-Hellenic Medical Association, I tell you there's the other side of the hill and there's a subject. Is that right? Just because you asked me. Now let's go to Mr. Loverdo. I said we were going in alternating.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u710	Why, Mr. President, me?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u711	If you don't want to, wait. I said a fair play, a rapporteur and a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u712	Yeah, but please for something. To speak before me, Mr. Gregorakos, and then I will. Because I want to see what it says, not repeat anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u713	Nobody's reacted. I said one and one better. Then I will exhaust all the special speakers, those who want to speak, and then the parliamentary representatives will start. I said, to make it easier for you, to speak one and one. It's not a question of talking. It's okay. So Mr. Vassiliou Yoyakas has the floor. You'll have the relative tolerance, but please get it together.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u714	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I come back to comment on the ministerial amendments which have not been incorporated into the bill. The general comment is that many of them, as with the corrections made to the Katrugalou law, come to amend provisions of laws adopted by this government relatively recently. I think that is a sign of a piece of legislation, and that is something that is done with the amendments, Mr Polakis. I shall therefore begin with the amendment with a general number 952 and a special 63 on the technical assistance of the Ministry of National Defence in the context of the refugee crisis, which we are voting against. The implementation of the actions causes costs borne by the State budget rather than the appropriations for the Asylum, Migration and Integration Fund from which, moreover, the Ministry of National Defence is not entitled to resources from the Fund. Incidentally, Minister, I want you to tell us why you withdrew the article 51, which speaks of the Inland Water Prevention Office, which has been commented positively from all groups....
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u715	We'll get it back improved.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u716	...and Article 53, which concerned financing for the EOF. As far as the works are concerned, then, and the supply of goods can be carried out directly - I am referring to Amendment 952/63 - with what this may mean. With Amendment 953/64, which we are also voting against, reasonable questions arise: why is the possibility of Vice-Presidents being involved in the service councils? Is there a problem of setting up service councils? Why are no definitions of which sub-administrators, which organic units from each body may participate? Also, why do you want to broaden the composition of the service councils? Is there really a matter of representativeness, or are we talking about an attempt to control them indirectly and, indeed, we are going to set up the service councils in the next period? In Amendment 954/65 we are concerned about the award of the specialization of clinical microbiology on the basis of location and pre-service. You have not explained to us, Minister, in a clear and convincing way, why you have done so. You told us a moment ago in the President's question, if that conceals something. You said about a few three organized centers. So we have peaks from the President-in-Office who is currently presiding. So our position is that we are also voting against this provision. The second paragraph of Amendment 955/66 prohibits local medical clubs from authorising the operation of hemorrhages not in a diagnostic laboratory. First of all, an essential competence is removed from the local medical clubs, which, together with what we have said about Article 54, can also be interpreted as an attempt to degrade them. Secondly, with this prediction that anyone who wants to run a bloodbath in a neighbouring area is forced to operate in another diagnostic centre. However, the essence of the matter is how they treat border regions, in remote islands, the hemorrhaging that has been taking place so far. There are people poor, people who do not have easy access to diagnostic centres. I would therefore say in these remote areas that there can be places of bloodshed. Amendment 962/70 is the assumption of the government's failed management of the refugee. It has taken a year since the resolution of No.4375/2016 to see the government that it needs to strengthen the independent committees of refugees. Nevertheless, and after the withdrawal of the provisions on the appointment of the administrative director of the Refugee Authority, we will be voting in favour of this amendment, because we understand that the procedures must be set at a much faster pace. With Amendment 962/70, and in particular paragraph 2, you are loading the state budget with an unfamiliar expenditure - only five million for the Ministry of Health - by redefining the overtime of civil servants and the general public sector. Have you considered whether the country's budgetary tolerances allow it, or do you believe that such gifts will prevent the electoral collapse? We consider it necessary to strengthen the medical and nursing staff of public health units, Mr Polakis, but we cannot legislate without caring for the cost of each option. How do you legalise retroactively overdue health expenditure without determining the costs of these costs? Amendment No 964/71 substantially weakens the incentive to administer subsidiary doctors of primary health care units in the region, so there will be a secondment to regional hospitals. We are voting against this amendment. ‘No’ we are also voting on Amendment 966/72 on the management of the resources of the Public Port Authority, by which the commander of the Authority, appointed as authorising officer, has access in white to how the bank account of the Authority is managed. And all of this while the Authority doesn't have any commander, no board of directors, no organograms. You practically buy time until the Authority works if it does. We are also negative in Amendment 972/75 on the integration of administrative and technical staff from the Ministry of Health into the provisions of Law 4440/2016. We agree with the principle of uniform treatment, but we disagree with the overall approach and architecture of the mobility system. Finally, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we consider it unacceptable to table Amendment No 977/78 on local health units. You had a bill that you had been working on for over a year before you brought it to the vote, which passed four meetings in our committees and now, literally, in five and five, another late amendment on the basis of the primary care system, the first reception point for the patients. You are starting, in other words, the very legendary reform of primary care with a last-minute amendment. This, Mr Ministers, let me say that it underestimates and insults us politically. And since I do not know any mandarins, dear Polakis, I would say that the last two amendments, 978 concerning employment contracts and 979 relating to the EEA, we really did not have the time to see them either, but neither can we discuss the substance of these amendments at the moment. And as logical as that is, we are voting against them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u717	Mr. Leonidas Gregorakos is next. Here, Mr Gregorako, you have the floor for the relative tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u718	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to respond to what the Minister said in thirty-eight minutes and what I have heard from the majority rapporteur. I mean, the National Health System, as one sees it, is not just health services managed by the state. The National Health System is also the private sector. If we understand this and find the balance between the National Health System and the private sector, we take the good things from one hand and the good things from the other, then there is a reform and perspective for the country. On reform issues, if what we do and are discussing today is reform or not, or if the government has reformed over the last two years, I would like to say: dear colleague, you were up today and I did not hear you take a stand on what the Minister of Education has done, because it is your concern, Minister. Reduce the positions, two months before the general examinations, medical, law, and polytechnics. I, Mr President, would say that if I were to talk about reforms of this kind, I would say that I am abolishing the pan-Hellenic exams and making private universities. This is reform for me. It is not a reform to give the Greek citizen fewer positions, which have planned their lives for at least this year. It is dishonest for children this year to reduce these positions. Let's go down. I have heard of the 'Oncesion'. Where did we find the problem of the "Onasios". Fifteen doctors have left the last trimester of the “Onceau”. Paediatric heart surgery has been weakened. A heart surgery clinic has been weakened and even with an excellent doctor for whom the crisis took place, but he didn't want the system. He took three negative, two positive and two 'abs' positions. That is why, Minister, you have called in an apology, to justify your position, the two members of the board of directors who voted 'yes'. If you can, disprove me for what I'm asking you to do. And I answer what I heard a moment ago. Isn't it rousphetti putting medical service on the National Haemorrhage? Isn't it? Isn't it ruffe that you're currently building the National School of Public Health, making a system without exams, calling teachers, without this system receiving students? I was in favour of the National School of Public Health becoming a university under the previous legislation of Mrs Diamantopoulou, but not in this way. And above all, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I do not want Greece in 2017, 2020 and 2050 to move forward and give titles without evaluation and without any of them who take the titles or assign them to the universities, have not been evaluated. And I'll be clearer. You go give a title to some who don't own it. Why, Mr. Comrade? I want everyone to run tests. And in the amendment that you have here on microbiologists I want to give tests. That is why we are not voting for it. I want to talk about the EKT. Why should MEPs be able to transfer to hospitals and cannot they submit their papers on vacant posts to hospitals and go to hospitals? Why, in other words, to these people, to the doctors of the EKA, whom you yourself were talking about - I have the question you submitted to us about the EKA, that we are weakening the EKA by taking doctors, staff and ambulance drivers - you come and give the opportunity, if it is five years, to move? How do you move doctors five years from the province of Athens without entering an evaluation process? Is it not unfair for some people to think that they will be in the province for five years and will they come to the "Evangelism" to take one of the best positions? Isn't that unfair? Why don't you declare the vacant posts of the "Evangelism" and give the colleague who's there so much molecules that he can come? But give him molecules for an empty organic position, Minister. We're not going to make the National System of Health Financial Officers. So that's what you're doing. Movements from here and from there. As far as the EAW is concerned, for example, when it has a vacancy here in the region, a doctor, who is five years in the EAW, will go and take a vacancy. Why would he do that? I'm against it. I want us all to be rated. As the politicians assess, as assessed each day, as assessed by the entire Greek society, so I want us to be evaluated. Finally, I have no objections to AEMY. But I remember AEMY being built by the President-in-Office now, Mr Kaklamanis, who had suffered everything. I have no objections. But I object to the Santorini Hospital, where the minister came out and said some people wanted to make it a hotel. I'm disgusting you. At least in the last few years, which I had the responsibility for the National Health System and AEMY, I had contacted the Niarchos Foundation and reached a very good level. He disagreed with the local element of the Cyclades, the mayors and all because they wanted the hospital to be public. We think it's too expensive. The Niarchos Foundation had proposed to us that, if they ever took it, all Greek citizens who would be or wanted to be hospitalized at the Hospital of Santorini, would pay nothing and the Greek state would not pay that much money and we would not shut down the Health Center in Santorini. Why can't you stand the criticism? Is that a bad review? I believe that criticism at one time, when it is honest, is constructive. Good criticism is constructive. Evil criticism must be rejected. But I do do that in good faith. And I do not accept - it may have been, I do not want to disprove you - that there was a Minister of the previous government, who negotiated for the Santorini Hospital, which is a jewel, to make it a hotel. I don't accept it, and I don't want it. I might be wrong. As far as the ETUC is concerned, I honestly believe that you have done so. But for these two in particular - AEMY and SAN - when they had come here, you had climbed the bars. So I believe that these may be good tools, but you must do your self-criticism, because you are now ruling for two years. Tell me what CSAN has done for the cost of all these things, because it has been two years. I will ask you a question, Minister: Over the two years, which we have created, what has it done? I believe that some other parts of hospital health services should also be given to better management because it has been shown that we have not done well in the past few years. We can keep this part that the Ministry of Health can manage it better than the others. But we cannot with this staff that we have today in the public health system - without wanting to underestimate anyone - go forward. The public accountancy, which has all the laws of the National Health System, is anachronistic and we need to modernise it. We could talk for hours, because in this bill there have been many more, many things. Psychiatric reform is a positive step and we will vote on all the articles of psychiatric reform. However, we will also be voting on some articles which really are in the positive direction. We'll be here to check on you. In some things, however, which I believe are racist positions or some actions that favour some, we will be against. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u719	Mr. Ioannis Aivatidis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u720	Mr President, I do not want to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u721	You don't want to. Thank you. Mr. Lambroulis has the floor. Mr Colleague, you will have the relative tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u722	Mr President, thank you. You got me. I was going to start calling for the Bureau's tolerance in terms of time, because we need to put it, even codified and briefly, to most of the amendments and, above all, to the ministerial. I'll start at the end. On the occasion of Mr. Paulakis gave it to me. I would recommend that Mr Polakis, Mr President, when he refers to the Communist Party of Greece, be much more careful. It's over and out. Secondly, as far as the amendment is concerned...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u723	What'd I say insulting?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u724	Calm down, please. He said about the Communist Party of Greece. He didn't say faces.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u725	I said be more careful when you refer to the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u726	I didn't understand the insulting thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u727	If you don't understand, that's your problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u728	Mr. Polakis, you'll answer later.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u729	Your reference to Amendment 978, therefore, is that "Many of your people have approached me" and many more...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u730	No, I was approached. It's a matter of claim.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u731	Let go of that now. Don't interrupt me. I'm not gonna let you interrupt me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u732	Mr. Polakis, sit down, please. You don't have the floor. We're getting to the end. Calm down.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u733	The position of the Communist Party of Greece for these workers - amendments have also been tabled - is that they should be recruited with a permanent and stable employment relationship. Yes or no? Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u734	Not only.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u735	We have therefore tabled an amendment. You never accepted her. That's what I have to tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u736	Mr. Lambroulis, there's no need for tension. You're a calm man. Tell your opinion calmly.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u737	Of course, this amendment comes to shape, by introducing the issue of experience, a better - let me say the term - recruitment status, fairer - in or out of import terms, the word - but in the direction that you want, in flexible forms of work, with individual contracts. Well, that's what we disagree. What can we do? We have been making our proposals for a long time and we have tabled amendments. So in this amendment we shall vote 'the present'. Mr President, I move on to the next amendment, to the general number 979 and to the number 80. We shall be very brief about the paragraphs of the amendment, because we shall vote on the amendment as a whole. In the first paragraph, we shall vote 'the present'. We agree, of course, not to pay people, etc. We, however, say that there is a huge issue with the EEA, its services and the towel that has been made not only in the SYRIZA - ANEL government, but also in the previous governments. But this is still the case. With the second paragraph, we agree, with regard to the re-establishment of the compensation price for the therapists, therapists, etc. In the third paragraph, if it was voted separately, we would vote'residents'. We say that this procedure belongs to the state. In addition, in the specific bill that we are voting on today, we have given an opinion on the creation of equivalent legal persons, as provided for in paragraph 3. As far as paragraph 4 is concerned, one question arises. If you want, let him answer. Does the ‘Papagorgiou’, a hospital which is being subsidised, offset its obligations to the EEAS with the obligations of EEAS to the hospital? What's going to happen? Who's gonna pay for this? Where? In paragraph 5 we shall say 'yes'.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u738	You have the right to say 'yes' to paragraphs, but you will vote with 'yes', 'no' or 'no'. You're just making an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u739	Look, Mr President, this amendment, like others, has six paragraphs.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u740	You're just making an explanation of vote now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u741	I would just like to explain the intention of voting, that is, if we were to vote separately, what we would vote on in every paragraph which might...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u742	Mr. Lambroulis, I get it. However, because they are being kept in practice, I said it to make the clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u743	I am referring, in paragraph 5 of this amendment, to a general number 979, we say 'yes'. We say 'no' in the paragraph that is equivalent to the regulation in the draft legislation under discussion concerning the EEO, the efficiency premium. We shall therefore vote 'at present' in the whole of this amendment. I continue with the other amendments. In Amendment No 953 and in Amendment No 64, which deals with the service councils, we want the service councils, even though it is facilitated by this procedure proposed by this amendment. However, from the point of view of their mission, they essentially constitute evaluation bodies for officials based on the reactionary institutional framework and, more generally, on the criteria of anti-popular policy and public health. As far as the amendment is concerned, with a general number of 954 and a special 65, for biopathologists, we agree that the correlation should be made. But we have some reservations. I'll report them quickly. The first reservation is the correctness of the separation of the specificities and specialties existing in the European Union, as well as of the regulation of the award of specialisation to clinical microbiology without examinations, as provided for in the draft law. This is where we shall vote 'the present'. In the Ministerial Amendment No 964 we will vote'residents'. This concerns the signing of a two-year contract with subsidiary doctors. In fact, instead of hiring permanent doctors with full and exclusive employment, the government is extending the status of subsidiarity, namely temporary and alternating work of doctors in more areas and parts of public health units. In the Ministerial Amendment No 955 and a special 66, which concerns haematologists, we will vote'residents'. By reading the explanatory statement, the argument - or the arguments, if you like - is that this activity creates conditions of unfair competition and, secondly, that there are issues of guaranteeing public health. So what does the government want? To make the wheelchair, in fact, in business action on health, and to lay down rules for where? The competition. It's arrangements that make leaves and feather in front of the profit hunt. Also, as far as public health is concerned, without underestimating them, we are talking about pretexts in sin. Here are advertising hemorrhaging and other medical operations in squares, in the subway basement, and he goes by saying. We will vote'residents' in this amendment. With the amendment of the Ministry of Migration Policy, namely Amendment No 961 and special 69, the Government confirms our party's assessment, that it wants to apply the inadmissible agreement of the European Union on refugees with Turkey, without respecting the minimum standards for the fair examination of asylum applications and, in particular, the appeals against the rejection decisions of the Third-degree Committees. And, of course, the European Union-Turkey Agreement, which the Court of Justice recently found not to be an agreement of the European Union, apart from being flagrantly violating the rights of refugees, is responsible for the arrest of thousands of refugees and immigrants on the islands of the eastern Aegean, with all the negative actions. We are therefore voting against this amendment. And I conclude, Mr President, with the amendment of a general number 975 and a special 76, concerning local health units. With this amendment, the government puts the seal not only of a degraded and inadequate public primary health care, as it is today, but also of a formal nature. We are talking about mutilation of the concept and mission of primary health care. Of course, the government and the ministry call it a cut. In fact, as you say, the public primary health care system is not being complemented now, but also the least available one is making it even worse. Even this staff serving local units will be fixed-term workers, i.e. staff with reduced rights and remuneration, which will be altered between cheap intensified work and unemployment, which, in other words, will be devalued as qualified scientific staff. We are also saying this clearly, Mr President, and we are also addressing the Ministry and the Government. Take back the disgrace of this amendment you have brought. That is why we are voting against, Mr President. And I'm closing up with it. I'm finishing up with what I started. You should know, Mr Polakis and gentlemen of the government, and everyone who hears us, that the Communist Party is always. And he bears and holds and can handle it, Mr. Polakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u744	Let's go to the bearer all this time, Mr. Athanasios Papachristopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u745	Mr President, I would like to respond to this personal tip.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u746	Let the speakers finish and I'll give you the floor for a minute. Here you go, Mr. Papachristopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u747	Thank you, Mr President. I hope I don't need all the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u748	You'll have tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u749	I think that in this bill, case law is inappropriate, and I will not go into conflicts that many of them may be fair. I just want to refresh our memory a little bit and say that like a baby two, three, four, five years old he does not know his rights and I think we would have no objection to protecting his rights when we invited the bodies to one of the committees, represented by their own mentally disturbed ones. Some others represent them. It is therefore our sacred obligation to ensure that the rights of those who live next to us are protected. And I think it's a sign of culture, I say again, in a country that experienced the vagina of Leros, the social retreat of "Daphni" and the social retreat of "Dromokaitio", because it took us years to understand that demolition, which is a decades conquest in the countries of the European Union, had to come to us as well. I want to focus on two points, Mr President. The special committee for the protection of the rights of persons with mental impairment must not remain a letter of the law. Don't leave a letter of law. It is worth hearing that, for the first time, these people's right to still question their involuntary hospitalization in court is legally shielded. For the first time, the right to speak with his lawyer - I do not want to say examples of exactly what was happening to Greek society and who was upset by these stories - is for the first time having access to the data on his files, and the right to property. These are things I welcome and I think that with the new institutional reform and, above all, the first part concerning the new structures will be shielded. But I don't want to stop there alone. I believe that this is the first positive step and I have heard that almost all of us, I have to admit, with few exceptions, even from opposition parties in this Chamber. I think it's the first step to find out that home care is our duty, and that's where we have shortcomings. I would also like to say that, with the application of foster families - there is also a total lack of legal safeguards for the role of caregiver, the role of caregiver, it is not necessary to be a qualified doctor, it can be a parent, a husband, a brother, a friend - and above all, with competent structures of counsel and support, a body that is more than forty years in the countries of the European Union - that we want to be a member of - and is a living counselor. Keep that condition. It's a term that we're going to need very much in the next few years. I would also like to say the following here. Yeah, I'm one of those people I'm asking for this social stigma of three I said before stopping. Every hospital has to have a psychiatric unit. We have to stop the stigma. A mentally ill is in a village and is stigmatized throughout life because he went to "Dafni", "Dromocaeteio" or went to Lero before. Not to mention what was going on in Spinalonga, I'm a dermatologist, with the business of the Ulsters. As well as mental health centres, day care centres for mentally impaired, first. I think no one disagrees here that while mentally disturbed individuals were the exception to the rule, today, under conditions of crisis and appalling pressure, it has increased to 30%. Once, psychiatric science was, not to say marginal, a very important specialty, very difficult, in my opinion. Nowadays, it's a spear's top. We have to focus. Households, guesthouses, sheltered apartments, short stay apartments, professional rehabilitation units are still unknown to our country for these people. Still, professional rehabilitation units. It made me a terrible impression in Denmark once when I went to a plant like this and pinched, I didn't believe in my eyes. What do I want to say, and I'm done. The words 'living counsel' are still unknown here. We have the possibility of a wide range of social workers, health visitors, nurses specializing in mental health and others, to manipulate the living counselor. Keep that condition. He is widespread in all the countries of the European Union. And let's see for the first time -- and I think he's doing this bill, it's an intersection -- mentally disturbed people with another eye. He's the mirror of a country's culture. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u750	Mrs. Big Economics has spoken, so Mr. Mavrosh has the floor and we're done with the special speakers. Mr. Black, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u751	Thank you, Mr President. I will also start with the amendments. In fact, I will begin at the end, Minister. My question is who had the obvious idea of bringing the amendment concerning local health units four hours before the end of the sitting, Amendment No 977/78. And why should this thing come to the last minute when last week in the committees we would have all the time to see it a little more thoroughly than to have it in our hands for three or four hours? You said it was a machine-to-work amendment. However, local health units seem to be the cornerstone of your first - grade health care system. And by looking at the amendment, my question was how these two hundred and thirty-nine TOMY, the local health units, referred to in the report of the General Accounting Office of the State, came out. Minister, the two hundred and thirty-nine local health units essentially correspond, on the basis of the figures of ten to twelve thousand per local group, to three million inhabitants. What about the remaining eight million? So there is too much darkness to vote on. And the truth is, you haven't earned our trust to vote with closed eyes on your last-minute inspirations. We are going to another amendment, on 962/70, dealing with on-call and overtime. I also said in my theory that although Mr. Paulakis said that he refers to workers in public hospitals and the approval of the State General Accounting Office is mentioned in 5 million, however, paragraph 2 is changing Law No.4354/2015, Article 20b of the Ministry of Finance, which makes the increase from 40% to 60% and from 60% to 75% in on-call and overtime. It does not only include workers from the Ministry of Health in this provision, it also includes workers from the ATT, from the Security Bodies, etc., and it seems that the subtotal is essentially to legislate for the hypertoll. We would like some clarifications on this, if, in other words, the finance ministers, Mr Tsakalotos and Mr Juliarakis are aware. Third point. Minister, Admiral Nimic insists on being present at the title of Article 39. I told the committee, I said it here. There's no legal improvements. You look like you're writing me in your old shoes. I'll insist. Sports, you know, at least teaches you perseverance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u752	We're not writing you, Mr. Mavroa.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u753	All right, the double sinner, the man of wisdom, the threes imagine! Let's go to the fourth point. The legal improvement in Mr Muszala's amendment is wrong. He's got the wrong number. It says that it refers to Amendment No 962/70. I am talking about the legislative improvement that changes and repeals paragraphs 1 and 4 and changes the whole philosophy of the amendment, with which we objected and now we shall vote in favour of it. Instead of saying the right thing, namely that it is Amendment 961/69, it says 962/70 and that is wrong. Fifth and last. Of the eight amendments tabled were only a parliamentary amendment by the members of the SYRIZA. Was she the only one accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u754	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u755	This, you know, is not very indicative of the government's consent to these matters.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u756	He had a different character and he had the consent of all of you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u757	Is the amendment accepted relevant?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u758	It was very special, which is why it was accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u759	Don't have a dialogue. Now, you're surprised. What are you surprised about? Is this the first time?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u760	I am new, Mr President, and I am surprised.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u761	During the two years you're in the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u762	Okay. Generally, the barrage of all these last-minute amendments, let us say what will be very decisive for our attitude to the draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u763	We got off with the special speakers. Because Mr. Mandas and Mr. Kefaliannis spoke to the end, I leave them last. We're starting with Mr. Loverdo. Here, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u764	Thank you, Mr President. I shall begin with the Mitafidis amendment and other SYRIZA colleagues, who Mr Blonde accepted. The Minister's doing well and making her acceptable, she's very well formulated. My colleague informed me that they have helped to formulate it and people who can legally be sufficient. However, because I remembered in the course of another case of Jewish persecuted persons, which had to be seen as a sign of gratitude and recognition for the Hellenic Republic to give them citizenship, I remember that there were some involvements with the Ministry of the Interior and we had to resolve them. I was a Member of Parliament and had tabled an amendment that had been accepted but had to cooperate with the Ministry of Interior. I hope that you have made this cooperation and that there is no objection.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u765	Yeah, with the interior department.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u766	So this is for immediate implementation, Mr President. An injustice is lifted and a recognition is made on the part of the Greek Parliament. Now, Mr. Xanthi, you are a member of a government, where the Constitution is in violation, you have a chance here to see two things that the Scientific Research Directorate tells you about many of your articles. As he does for all draft law, he has made a suggestion, on page 8, and talks to you about over four or five articles where there is a problem with the authority you are giving to the administration. I do not know if you have any of these changes - I am not in a position to see and control them - but it makes you an observation where there will be provisions which will create problems and possibly conflicts, the law must be guaranteed, or else you will be complaining about the criticism you are being made and finding the judges. Now, an issue that surprises me, because I don't understand it. Article 43, Mr President, lays down the conditions for the operation of private clinics. When a person who is not familiar with legal wordings of law reads it, that is to say, this article, paragraph 2, which goes away and adds, etc., passes it as a provision that regulates real things in a better direction. When you read the report, you see other things. Mr President, Article 43 abolishes the reform efforts we have made with regard to the functioning of private clinics to be adequate and to be remedied earlier, which life has depreciated. We raised the preconditions - I then had the honour of being Minister - in order for them to function better and to meet the needs of the patients. We see here - in the rapporteur's report - that these arrangements allow certain non-civil-private clinics to develop oncology. I'm not a doctor, I don't have sufficient terminology, but you doctors have. I understand that, and Mr Gregorakos also informs me, that older - my own - are - difficult conditions that some clinics could not meet, and easier criteria are given in order to obtain a licence.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u767	On the contrary.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u768	Tell me. And when it comes to oncology, it is very reasonable to conclude that, through these arrangements, some who could not, with the old criteria, now and can also make the corresponding consumption for their patients without authorisation. That's a matter. Because we are all living in Athens and because we all have the ability to communicate with the world he knows - I am not in a position to tell you why - but it says that it serves some people. Those who serve not to serve them in this way, but to regulate the issue on the basis of equal criteria that will make the function specific to have an adequacy that suits patients, above all, but also the state of the health system. By way of regulation, you have taken it back and brought it back with the report of the State General Accountancy Office which was missing, you are establishing, by drawing resources from the NRP, TOMY, that is to say, the Sectoral Health Units. As you say in the regulations, it has to be in Greece around a thousand. Every twelve thousand people, if you see it, must be about a thousand.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u769	The first phase is two hundred forty.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u770	Yes, but if one follows the criteria of the law in all phases for the four-year period that the NRP is, it is foreseen that. The expenditure is not 12.5 million that the General Accounting Office says. If one considers this to be the case again - and I asked for the help of the doctor and Professor Gregorakos, not to say inconsistency - and with two shifts, we are going to need a unit, close to thirty people, by a thousand. Make the multiplications. The report of the General Accounting Office of the State came last minute and does not have the criteria and evidence to judge the General Accounting Office. At the same time, it is very easy to get together: here, with an amendment, they share resources from the ESDP but old. So we haven't made any progress with the NRP, give it up. Mr Bargiokas said this: 'Let us give it to them wherever they go, as long as they are consumed'. It's the '80s. We've taken thirty years to get through this, and that's coming back here. What experiment for primary health is this? How will these be combined with the current structures in the Ministry of Health which are many and varied and which are not assembled? Do we even add one or the other? This is a client here, and if it is not a client, so that we do not get into disputes lately before the draft law is closed, it is an old cut in relation to the use of the NRP. We cannot vote for that. That is unacceptable. The Minister said that this is not the case with an amendment, primary health, etc., but is the case. It can also be amended in this way. The report of the General Accounting Office has been produced with incomplete data, with data that do not make good calculations and the final amounts are funny, compared to what the draft law says. Now, Mr President, I would like to end with three issues of my duties as a parliamentary representative. I started them this morning, and I promised I'd bring in evidence. There is in the last few days as a topic - for me the most important in the report - that the use of ELA has increased, i.e. the liquidity facility in the banking system, by 300 million. Mr President, I asked the Bank of Greece for information and he told me that I cannot have them. I sat down with my partners and we made two paintings, which I'm going to testify to. First table: table valid, Bank of Greece source, monthly summary accounts. Use of liquidity via the ELA mechanism: 1,55% interest rate. The Greek people's money is this, 1,55% interest rate from 0.05%, which was if it appealed to the Bank of Greece's procedures. In 2014: zero. I'll testify. Second, where red is from January 2015, pre-election period and then, "baroufakia" and up to capital control and the third memorandum. What's going on? From zero use of this liquidity mechanism for banks, we reached 90.4% on July 22, 2015. Miss! Since then, the third memorandum and the relevant ones have been known, it begins and falls. Where yellow here on the list, it's the fall. And we arrive until January 2017, where we continued to fall. And we have in February 2017 a rise of 300 million. This, along with too many others, is the result of the proud negotiation. We did not get enough of the "bugbug" now as well as the way a "bugbug" is. Mr President, I will present these tables to the House of Greeks. They will be discussed and not only will they be discussed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u771	But please, Mr. Loverdos.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u772	Watch out. At first we had a very long debate and together privately how long this draft law will take. We wouldn't be that way if we had...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u773	That's why I'm showing tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u774	I saw it. Two arguments lately. Mr Grigorakos said - I said it in the morning in my prototype - for this unacceptable method, two months before the universities' examinations, that we should have a change in the number of importers. Mr. Gregorakos said his views on how it could have been shaped. I'll say a sentence of mine. Before leaving the Ministry of Education, I delivered a decision where institutions determine the number of importers. Institutions, not the state. In any case, this was abandoned, as was the case with the subsequent leaderships of the Ministry, three in number. But the Ministry of Health has one reason, since the government has the floor. He has a reason. Two months before the exams, it's unfair. I am not opposed to reduction, if this is a better function and reasonableness. But we're against doing this two months before exams when families have made other calculations. Finally, Mr President, it is not the responsibility of the ministers, but it is a very serious matter and I think the members of the Ministerial Council need to understand it. You were President when we discussed the issue of children's conscientiousness with Mr. Kontonis. And my intervention, which I had done twice on Panagiotopoulos, is that this story where a cohabitation is solved, the two fight and the child pays it, is a wrong, very wrong Greek situation. And I said we could leave the logic of one's parental custody and go to the two. Both. The Minister said his own, he wouldn't accept it. However, since the previous one was also accepted by the Legislative Committee of the Ministry of Justice, we said with Mr Katsiantoni from the Association of Centres and Mr Amyras and we put it in an amendment. I know that it is not possible, a Minister's disagreement, for present ministers to accept it. I know, however, that this is now being tabled as an amendment and I know that it is at the discretion of the government to see this issue. The head of the Ministry of Health did not comment on it. That's her right. But we wanted it to be heard. And Mr. Amyras has been placed, and I'm placed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u775	Thank you. We are now continuing in the order of Parliamentary Representatives. Mr. Rabbit isn't here. If anything needs to be said on behalf of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Lambroulis is here. Mr. Lazarides isn't here. Mr. Big-fashioned doesn't want the floor. Mr. Amyras from what I was told will not come. I promised the floor to Mr Polakis for two minutes to give a reply to Mr Lambroulis, and then I will give the Minister nine minutes to answer, not to speak, Mr Xanthi, but to answer the questions raised. Neither did Mr. Paulakis intend to harm the JRC, nor did Mr. Lambroulis make a personal peak, but because he promised it, I give the floor to Mr. Polakis. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u776	Mr President, don't I deserve a few minutes of dentistry?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u777	Let's not take it now to what you're entitled to, because if I count the time you've spoken, you'd better leave it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u778	Okay. We'll talk in total.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u779	If you want a five-minute dentext after the Minister, I'll give it to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u780	No, the Minister will close. I will now say five things, I will answer a few issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u781	Good. You've got five minutes and you're closing. So you'll answer Mr. Lambroulis as well. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u782	I want to be clear. Mr Lambroulis, what I said before is that for this amendment and for your own colleagues who have the responsibility of some unions such as the 'Evangelism', we know that we have an ideological difference on the issue of you want only permanent posts, etc., but I have supported the request of the people who have come and who are now working at the contractor's 'Evangelism' workshop, either in the feeding or in the cleanliness and, based on the mobilisation that has been in existence so far - not the one we are changing today - they will find themselves out of work. That is what I said before, nothing more and nothing less.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u783	The explanations have been given.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u784	I did not ask for clarification, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u785	I am sufficeful of what you have put forward as a position and which you have not refused. I'll answer some things. First, Zakynthos: all technical checks, all microbiological and toxicological tests have been completed. It is undergoing a sworn administrative examination of the possible medical responsibilities for the incident, because all five who saw the light of publicity were not all that way. One incident had the problem, what unfortunately ended after a multi-day hospitalization at the Intensive Treatment Unit in Patras. At the moment everything is ready, certifications have been given, changes have been made, new machinery has gone, new sanitary material has been in place all along, and colleagues must start operating. It's very simple. Official announcements have been made, all the certifications have been made, and colleagues must start operating, as they have been called back and will be called back by the Hospital Board tomorrow. That's the point. From there on, things go elsewhere, if the surgery doesn't start. They've been ready for several days. That's the one. Secondly, you will understand something, ladies and gentlemen, about overtime and on-calls. By mistake to the wage law some mistakes were made because there was a total reallocation of percentages in the public sector, other workplaces with no circular working hours, in places with circular working hours. Don't be afraid. They've been covered all the money since last year, since 2016. I would remind you that the total amount of on-calls and overtime allocated to the public sector of hospitals and health centres in 2015 was EUR 297.5 million and in 2016 was EUR 335 million plus the sums that can be used by the regulation we have made, from the funding that the hospitals receive from the EEA. There is no question of raising the total amount. All this stuff we anticipated. They're budgeted. It is the restoration of a mistake, a 20% cut in the wages of nights and Sundays and holidays to staff making round hours. That was the percentage we are saying now - we are reintroducing it, that is - and not what had been inadvertently entered. And it's the workers' request and we're redeploying it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u786	It's for everyone?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u787	Hospital workers are working round hours. If you take better care of the device, that's what it says. And when he says about the workers in this paragraph, he means those who do circular hours. There are not many people who do this type of cyclical hours in general in the public sector. So don't worry. It's all covered. We too think very well of public money and want to be directed to the benefit of living work and not to the benefit of supplies and overpriceds. Let me have a word with Mr. Gregoraco about the Santorini Hospital. I have not mentioned you before. I mentioned very specifically and spoke with names about what happened with the Santorini Hospital. I have referred to you, or rather I have referred more generally to the fact that there is a very big war there from a private health service institution whose owner has relations - is not secret - with your party in the past, the way it was borrowed to build the central clinic and opened the annex down to Santorini, etc.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u788	I don't know that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u789	I know. What can we do? It was a conscious choice to support the public hospital in the Santorini area.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u790	I don't know anything about this owner.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u791	All right, Mr. Gregoraco. I didn't say you knew.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u792	The report was general. It was in no way personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u793	Today, indeed, all these amendments are good, for both the health system and the EOPH and the local health units, for which Andreas Xanthos will say something more, all the arrangements that we have been through and the issue of cleanliness contracts and incentives to subsidiary doctors and that they take 15 days of leave just like the rest of the others, the teachers, and all of this. In fact today, from what I was told, the channels I told in my speech gave me a recital. They brought up everything that's been a cockroach, that's been a broken glass for decades now, that's what's a little problem, and I don't know where, at the Rachoulas Health Center and the Lower Panayias. Today we have had our honour! But that's not what they're hiding. People collect them, and they will be collected by all those who concern them understand it. Because there is a great deal of effort. What can we do? We know. We have stopped the flow of advertising money in specific directions.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u794	It's off the bill. Finish now, please, because time's up. Don't open any more issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u795	With regard to doctors' movements, because you say it again, Mr. Gregorako, the doctor of Leros Health Center, the cardiologist, will not leave if she is vaccinated.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u796	As long as you're a Minister, it might not be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u797	No, calm down. Listen to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u798	But another Minister of Confidence, for example Mr Papachristopoulos, will do whatever he wants.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u799	Mr. Gregoraco, are we going this way by midnight? What can we do? That's what they want me to...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u800	You know you've been motivating some people in the past by saying they're going to a barren alpha area and after five years they're going to have the right to move somewhere else. Of these areas, too many cities had been excluded. From the barren alpha regions only had to go to the barren beta. This has also worked as an incentive to people who must now take up positions that we are proclaiming in regions on the Aegean islands or in other remote regions. And we can't convict those people, saying that that's where you were appointed, that's where you're gonna die.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u801	No objections.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u802	Well done. One incentive, then, to understand the position is to move to some position more centrally. So we said that he can move not only into barren beta areas, but if he is in Lero he can go to Chania in a vacant position. For the hospitals of Athens and Thessaloniki - which are a lot - we said it will not choose the place it will go, but it will choose the county from there and beyond, based on the needs of the healthcare region it will be able to direct to a hospital that will not be the central clinic of "Evangelism".
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u803	All right, that's it, Minister. Close now with this position you're making.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u804	I'll have a word about private clinics. We are practically reintroducing tougher provisions. This is not the case, because the 2011 Act provided for the possibility of opening up, but without the a.m. the year 2000, which was softer - to say so - to provide for the possibility. It had no specifications for a number of sections, while, on the contrary, it had specifications in 1991. And there was an unequal treatment between those who were going by the oldest provision and those who could not go by any provision because they were not provided for in n.e.c. 235. That is what we balance out. There has also been a legislative improvement there, because the printer's demon had infiltrated this article, and I think that this is not a matter like what Mr Lovers has tried to mention.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u805	Minister, here you are, have the floor to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u806	We're closing the conversation. I think her last piece was more productive. I answer the question of the two articles that have been withdrawn. Article 51 for the Office for Prevention of Accidents in Inland Waters, although it had a positive resonance and response from many political forces, is withdrawn because it is also a co-management of the Ministry of Sport. We are committed to re-establishing the two ministries together. And Article 53, which we have said in committee, will be withdrawn because we will soon bring in new criteria for the approval of medicinal products from the positive list, which will be HTA criteria, that is to say, a mechanism that is reliable for evaluating pharmaceutical innovation, as I have said before, on the basis of the Portuguese standard. It has been a very important job and I think it is a very critical structural change in the drug field. Now, the part that has the basic...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u807	So, is this going to get in there for the equation of the FDA workers?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u808	No, that's still it. The amendment for the IF has remained.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u809	It was the wrong article.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u810	Yeah, there's been a mistake. Article 52 is for the EOF. Articles 51 and 53 shall be withdrawn. Article 52 for the EOF remains. And with the opportunity to say that, because it was put out by the rapporteur of the New Democracy at first, the EOF to know is a self-financed organisation. It has its own resources and with them it covers the payroll of its employees and at the same time has a very important reserve. Of course, there are checks and they cannot be made available wherever they want the money. What we are doing with this intervention is restoring an injustice, which concerns forty-five workers at the moment in the EEO, who are significantly understated in the wage section in relation to other workers who do the same work. It is therefore an attempt, in my opinion, to invest in an entity that has a highly qualified scientific potential, which plays a very crucial role in controlling the quality and safety of medicinal products that are circulating and is also an investment in a body that can play a catalytic role in the resolution and reform of pharmaceutical policy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u811	Well, there's no need for any more arguments. It's understandable.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u812	Good. I'm going to refer to the mental health section. I would remind you - we have told the committee - that this body of amendments was a matter of joint consensus and long-term consultation by a multi-member working group representing all professionals and all categories of mental health. It was a mature reform that all these people believe can help to unleash psychiatric reform and re-start on better terms of the effort to complete the plan to move forward with unleashing and, above all, to meet new, increased needs and because of the crisis. Let me say that there are two - three critical, indeed very important, reform areas. The administrative decentralisation of the system is intersection. The participation of patients not in any consultative bodies, but in the management bodies of the system is intersection. It strengthens self-representation, strengthens the patient, has a psychotherapeutic character. Like, of course, the interconnection of services of mental health with primary care services and social services of self-government is also intermittent, because it puts a logic of networking services covering the entire social state and synergy of their structures and people, so that they can achieve better results and better care for citizens. There was a question about this amendment for microbiologists, biopathologists. Let me say that, first of all, this was a decision supported by the two main scientific companies, namely the Hellenic Medical Biopathology Society and the Hellenic Clinic Microbiology Society, and I think it has been passed unanimously by the CESH plenary. In other words, it is a regulation that is totally agreed. Here there is a presidential decree, n.e.c.386/1995, which establishes the Clinical Microbiology. This presidential decree has been inactive for twenty years. We are making an effort to activate this specialisation, which we believe can play an important role in the good laboratory support of hospitals and especially in the field of dealing with microbial resistance, which is a major public health problem, and we really all know that in these cases there are always transitional provisions, so that there is the critical mass of trainers that will enable the specialists to complete their training and take the title, of course by exams, etc. The hemorrhages...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u813	After that, you mean an exam. As far as the three present, without examination, are concerned.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u814	It can't work otherwise. It's simple, Mr. President. I explained it. I'm telling you it's an arrangement agreed. In any case, it does not favour, as you have said, certain people. It concerns a number of centres which are now certified to give this specialisation. As far as hemorrhaging is concerned, I am sorry, but those ratios you make with the additional areas, etc., have nothing to do with reality. The platelets were organic elements of large chains of diagnostic centers. In this way, they had managed to develop and salt a very large piece of the pie that exists in the private sector and especially in the large urban centers, they have been able to control more than 2/3 of the diagnostic expenditure. Well, actually, it's an attempt to get a class into this chaotic landscape. So this is not about serving anyone, about a citizen's suffering. No hemorrhages had been developed in any difficult and provincial area. The hemorrhages developed by the three - four large diagnostic chains that I have said many times that they have within them the gene of provoking demand, waste and the approval of diagnostic expenditure. I'm going to close up with the issue of local health units. Indeed, by people, by political forces who have collaborated in the complete disorganisation of primary health care by Law 4238, we cannot hear criticism of depreciation, disorganisation, collapse, dismantling, etc. In this landscape we have been making a very systematic effort lately to strengthen existing structures as well, to concentrate the laboratory tests. We have done a central workshop in Athens, which has increased within a month of 2016 that started operating, 28% of its productivity and the service of the insured. They are interventions to upgrade public primary health care. But now to hear that the new decentralised structures, which are beyond the existing structures, which change the philosophy in the health system, which establish the institution of the family doctor, who is the first point of contact and holistic care, are responsible for three thousand doctors and other staff, involving sixty urban centres in the country, two hundred, forty, forty-five structures with a specific distribution, which are agreed with the regions to join their RDPs, the ESF, which have been negotiated with the Community institutions, which have all regulated, by telling us that this will dismantle primary care, I am sorry but I think you are insulting the reality and the intelligence of the people of that country. It is an intervention reformist for the health system as a whole, which was known to be hospital and of course medical center. Even that changes, the medicality of the system. Because in these local health establishments there are a multidisciplinary health team and it is not just family doctors, it is also framed by other health professions, ten to twelve people per structure, with a particular population of responsibility, etc. We will be able to discuss these when the health care bill comes. So I conclude with the following: in the face of the bio-insecurity policy, which you are emiting, that 'the country breaks down, there is no public care, there is no public health, there are sanitary bombs, the universe collapses', which I think has a very targeted character, precisely to create a climate of general insecurity and therefore easier manipulation of society, and it is a synergy between the political forces, the systemic media and outdated trade union bureaucracy in the health field, so there is the block of the honest people, the trustworthy people, who have worked for public care, who are struggling to keep hospitals up, to improve services to the citizen. We're counting on them. Things are hard. We are too, and society is too, but precisely because we are committed to this matter of public care, we will be able to do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u815	The debate on the principle of the articles and amendments of the Ministry of Health's draft law is hereby concluded: "Reforming the Administrative Organisation of mental health services, Centres for the Experience of Rare and Comprehensive Diseases, amending the pension arrangements of Law.4387/2016 and other provisions". Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u816	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u817	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u818	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u819	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u820	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u821	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u822	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u823	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u824	The draft law of the Ministry of Health was therefore accepted by a majority in principle. We are going to vote on the articles and they will be voted on separately. Can Rule 1, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u825	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u826	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u827	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u828	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u829	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u830	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u831	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u832	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u833	Article 1 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 2 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u834	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u835	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u836	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u837	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u838	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u839	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u840	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u841	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u842	Article 2 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 3 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u843	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u844	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u845	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u846	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u847	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u848	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u849	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u850	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u851	Article 3 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 4, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u852	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u853	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u854	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u855	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u856	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u857	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u858	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u859	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u860	Article 4 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 5 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u861	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u862	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u863	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u864	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u865	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u866	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u867	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u868	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u869	Article 5 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 6 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u870	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u871	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u872	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u873	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u874	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u875	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u876	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u877	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u878	Article 6 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 7 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u879	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u880	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u881	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u882	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u883	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u884	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u885	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u886	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u887	Article 7 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Article 8 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u888	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u889	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u890	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u891	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u892	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u893	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u894	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u895	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u896	Article 8 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 9 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u897	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u898	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u899	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u900	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u901	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u902	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u903	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u904	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u905	Article 9 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 10 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u906	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u907	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u908	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u909	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u910	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u911	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u912	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u913	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u914	Article 10 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 11 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u915	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u916	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u917	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u918	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u919	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u920	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u921	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u922	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u923	Article 11 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 12 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u924	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u925	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u926	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u927	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u928	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u929	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u930	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u931	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u932	Article 12 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does the House agree to Rule 13, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u933	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u934	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u935	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u936	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u937	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u938	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u939	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u940	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u941	Article 13 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 14 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u942	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u943	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u944	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u945	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u946	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u947	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u948	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u949	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u950	Article 14 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 15 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u951	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u952	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u953	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u954	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u955	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u956	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u957	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u958	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u959	Article 15 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 16 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u960	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u961	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u962	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u963	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u964	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u965	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u966	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u967	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u968	Article 16 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 17 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u969	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u970	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u971	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u972	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u973	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u974	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u975	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u976	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u977	Article 17 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 18 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u978	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u979	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u980	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u981	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u982	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u983	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u984	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u985	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u986	Article 18 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 19 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u987	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u988	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u989	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u990	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u991	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u992	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u993	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u994	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u995	Article 19 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 20 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u996	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u997	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u998	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u999	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1000	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1001	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1002	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1003	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1004	Article 20 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 21 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1005	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1006	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1007	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1008	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1009	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1010	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1011	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1012	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1013	Article 21 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 22 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1014	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1015	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1016	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1017	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1018	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1019	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1020	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1021	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1022	Article 22 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 23 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1023	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1024	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1025	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1026	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1027	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1028	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1029	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1030	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1031	Article 23 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 24 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1032	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1033	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1034	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1035	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1036	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1037	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1038	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1039	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1040	Article 24 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 25 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1041	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1042	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1043	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1044	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1045	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1046	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1047	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1048	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1049	Article 25 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 26 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1050	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1051	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1052	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1053	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1054	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1055	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1056	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1057	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1058	Article 26 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 27 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1059	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1060	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1061	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1062	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1063	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1064	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1065	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1066	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1067	Article 27 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 28 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1068	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1069	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1070	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1071	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1072	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1073	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1074	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1075	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1076	Article 28 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does the House accept Rule 29, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1077	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1078	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1079	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1080	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1081	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1082	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1083	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1084	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1085	Article 29 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 30 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1086	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1087	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1088	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1089	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1090	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1091	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1092	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1093	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1094	Article 30 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 31 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1095	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1096	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1097	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1098	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1099	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1100	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1101	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1102	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1103	Article 31 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 32 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1104	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1105	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1106	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1107	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1108	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1109	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1110	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1111	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1112	Article 32 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 33 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1113	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1114	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1115	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1116	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1117	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1118	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1119	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1120	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1121	Article 33 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 34 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1122	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1123	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1124	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1125	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1126	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1127	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1128	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1129	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1130	Article 34 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 35 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1131	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1132	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1133	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1134	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1135	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1136	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1137	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1138	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1139	Article 35 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 36 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1140	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1141	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1142	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1143	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1144	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1145	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1146	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1147	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1148	Article 36 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 37 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1149	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1150	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1151	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1152	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1153	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1154	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1155	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1156	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1157	Article 37 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 38 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1158	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1159	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1160	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1161	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1162	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1163	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1164	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1165	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1166	Article 38 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 39 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1167	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1168	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1169	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1170	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1171	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1172	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1173	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1174	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1175	Article 39 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 40 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1176	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1177	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1178	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1179	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1180	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1181	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1182	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1183	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1184	Article 40 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 41 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1185	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1186	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1187	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1188	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1189	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1190	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1191	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1192	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1193	Article 41 has therefore been accepted as majority. Articles 42, 51 and 53 are withdrawn. Can the House accept the new Rule 42, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1194	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1195	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1196	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1197	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1198	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1199	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1200	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1201	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1202	The new Article 42 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does the House accept Rule 43 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1203	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1204	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1205	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1206	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1207	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1208	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1209	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1210	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1211	The new Article 43 was therefore accepted as a majority. Asked by this House: is the new Rule 44 accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1212	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1213	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1214	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1215	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1216	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1217	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1218	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1219	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1220	The new Article 44 therefore has been accepted as a majority. Does the House agree that the new Article 45 is adopted as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1221	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1222	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1223	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1224	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1225	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1226	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1227	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1228	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1229	The new Article 45 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept the new Article 46 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1230	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1231	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1232	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1233	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1234	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1235	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1236	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1237	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1238	The new Article 46 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does the House agree to the new Article 47, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1239	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1240	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1241	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1242	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1243	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1244	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1245	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1246	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1247	The new Article 47 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does the House accept the new Article 48, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1248	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1249	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1250	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1251	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1252	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1253	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1254	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1255	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1256	The new Article 48 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Can the House accept the new Article 49, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1257	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1258	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1259	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1260	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1261	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1262	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1263	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1264	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1265	The new Article 49 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does the House accept the new Article 50 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1266	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1267	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1268	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1269	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1270	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1271	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1272	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1273	........................................ Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1274	The new Article 50 has therefore been accepted as a majority. Does this House accept the new Article 51 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1275	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1276	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1277	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1278	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1279	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1280	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1281	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1282	........................................ Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1283	The new Article 51 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does the House agree to the new Article 52, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1284	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1285	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1286	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1287	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1288	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1289	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1290	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1291	........................................ Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1292	The new Article 52 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does the House accept Rule 53 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1293	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1294	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1295	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1296	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1297	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1298	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1299	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1300	........................................ Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1301	The new Article 53 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does the House accept the new Article 54 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1302	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1303	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1304	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1305	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1306	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1307	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1308	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1309	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1310	The new Article 54 was therefore accepted as a majority. Can the House accept the new Article 55, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1311	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1312	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1313	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1314	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1315	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1316	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1317	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1318	........................................ Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1319	The new Article 55 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does the House accept the new Article 56 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1320	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1321	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1322	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1323	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1324	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1325	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1326	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1327	........................................ Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1328	The new Article 56 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does the House accept Rule 57 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1329	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1330	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1331	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1332	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1333	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1334	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1335	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1336	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1337	The new Article 57 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept the new Article 58 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1338	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1339	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1340	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1341	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1342	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1343	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1344	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1345	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1346	The new Article 58 was therefore accepted as a majority. Can the House accept the new Article 59 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1347	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1348	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1349	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1350	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1351	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1352	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1353	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1354	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1355	The new Article 59 was therefore accepted as a majority. Can the House accept the new Article 60 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1356	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1357	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1358	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1359	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1360	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1361	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1362	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1363	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1364	The new Article 60 was therefore accepted as a majority. Can the House accept the new Article 61 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1365	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1366	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1367	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1368	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1369	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1370	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1371	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1372	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1373	The new Article 61 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does the House accept the new Article 62 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1374	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1375	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1376	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1377	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1378	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1379	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1380	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1381	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1382	The new Article 62 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept the new Article 63 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1383	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1384	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1385	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1386	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1387	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1388	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1389	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1390	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1391	The new Article 63 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does the House accept the new Article 64 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1392	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1393	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1394	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1395	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1396	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1397	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1398	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1399	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1400	The new Article 64 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does the House accept the new Rule 65?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1401	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1402	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1403	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1404	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1405	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1406	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1407	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1408	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1409	The new Article 65 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does the House accept the new Article 66 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1410	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1411	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1412	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1413	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1414	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1415	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1416	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1417	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1418	The new Article 66 was therefore accepted as it is majority. Does this House accept the new Article 67 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1419	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1420	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1421	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1422	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1423	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1424	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1425	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1426	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1427	The new Article 67 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does the House accept Rule 68 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1428	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1429	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1430	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1431	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1432	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1433	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1434	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1435	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1436	The new Article 68 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept the new Article 69 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1437	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1438	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1439	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1440	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1441	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1442	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1443	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1444	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1445	The new Article 69 was therefore accepted as a majority. Asked by this House: is the new Article 70 accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1446	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1447	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1448	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1449	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1450	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1451	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1452	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1453	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1454	The new Article 70 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept the new Article 71 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1455	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1456	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1457	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1458	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1459	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1460	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1461	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1462	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1463	The new Article 71 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does the House accept Rule 72 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1464	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1465	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1466	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1467	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1468	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1469	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1470	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1471	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1472	The new Article 72 was therefore accepted as a majority. Can the House accept the new Article 73, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1473	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1474	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1475	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1476	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1477	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1478	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1479	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1480	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1481	The new Article 73 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 74 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1482	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1483	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1484	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1485	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1486	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1487	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1488	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1489	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1490	Article 74 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does the House accept the new Article 75 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1491	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1492	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1493	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1494	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1495	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1496	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1497	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1498	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1499	The new Article 75 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does the House accept the new Article 76 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1500	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1501	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1502	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1503	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1504	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1505	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1506	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1507	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1508	The new Article 76 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept the new Article 77 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1509	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1510	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1511	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1512	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1513	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1514	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1515	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1516	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1517	The new Article 77 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does the House accept Rule 78 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1518	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1519	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1520	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1521	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1522	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1523	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1524	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1525	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1526	The new Article 78 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does the House accept Rule 79 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1527	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1528	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1529	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1530	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1531	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1532	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1533	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1534	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1535	The new Article 79 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does the House accept the new Article 80 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1536	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1537	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1538	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1539	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1540	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1541	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1542	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1543	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1544	The new Article 80 therefore has been accepted as a majority. Does this House accept the new Article 81 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1545	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1546	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1547	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1548	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1549	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1550	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1551	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1552	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1553	The new Article 81 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does the House accept Rule 82 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1554	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1555	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1556	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1557	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1558	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1559	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1560	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1561	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1562	The new Article 82 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does the House accept Rule 83 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1563	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1564	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1565	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1566	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1567	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1568	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1569	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1570	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1571	The new Article 83 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does the House accept Rule 84 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1572	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1573	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1574	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1575	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1576	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1577	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1578	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1579	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1580	The new Article 84 therefore has been accepted as a majority. Does the House accept the new Article 85 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1581	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1582	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1583	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1584	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1585	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1586	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1587	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1588	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1589	The new Article 85 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does the House accept the new Article 86 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1590	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1591	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1592	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1593	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1594	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1595	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1596	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1597	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1598	The new Article 86 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does the House accept Rule 87 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1599	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1600	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1601	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1602	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1603	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1604	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1605	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1606	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1607	The new Article 87 was therefore accepted as it is majority. Does the House accept the new Article 88 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1608	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1609	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1610	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1611	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1612	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1613	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1614	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1615	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1616	The new Article 88 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does the House accept the new Article 89 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1617	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1618	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1619	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1620	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1621	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1622	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1623	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1624	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1625	The new Article 89, therefore, was adopted as a majority. Does the House accept the new Article 90, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1626	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1627	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1628	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1629	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1630	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1631	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1632	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1633	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1634	The new Article 90 was therefore accepted as amended by the Minister by a majority vote. Does the House accept the new Article 91 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1635	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1636	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1637	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1638	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1639	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1640	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1641	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1642	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1643	The new Article 91 has therefore been accepted as a majority. Does the House accept the new Article 92 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1644	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1645	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1646	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1647	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1648	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1649	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1650	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1651	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1652	The new Article 92 has therefore been accepted as a majority. Does the House accept Rule 93 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1653	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1654	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1655	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1656	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1657	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1658	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1659	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1660	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1661	The new Article 93 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does the House agree to the new Article 94, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1662	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1663	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1664	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1665	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1666	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1667	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1668	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1669	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1670	The new Article 94 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does the House accept the new Article 95 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1671	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1672	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1673	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1674	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1675	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1676	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1677	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1678	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1679	The new Article 95 was therefore accepted as a majority. Can the House accept the new Article 96, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1680	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1681	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1682	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1683	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1684	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1685	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1686	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1687	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1688	The new Article 96 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. We are entering the vote on the amendments. Does this House accept the amendment with a general number of 952 and a special number of 63 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1689	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1690	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1691	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1692	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1693	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1694	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1695	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1696	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1697	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 952 and a special 63 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House accept the amendment with a general number 953 and a special number 64 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1698	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1699	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1700	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1701	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1702	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1703	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1704	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1705	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1706	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 953 and a special 64 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number 954 and a special number 65 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1707	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1708	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1709	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1710	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1711	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1712	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1713	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1714	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1715	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 954 and a special 65 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House accept the amendment with a general number of 955 and a specialist of 66 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1716	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1717	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1718	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1719	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1720	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1721	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1722	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1723	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1724	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 955 and a special 66 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House accept the amendment by a general number of 961 and a special number 69, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1725	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1726	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1727	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1728	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1729	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1730	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1731	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1732	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1733	The amendment under general number 961 and a special 69 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House accept the amendment with a general number of 962 and a special number 70, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1734	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1735	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1736	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1737	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1738	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1739	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1740	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1741	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1742	The amendment under general number 962 and a special 70 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 964 and a special number 71 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1743	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1744	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1745	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1746	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1747	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1748	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1749	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1750	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1751	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 964 and a special 71 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 966 and a special number 72 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1752	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1753	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1754	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1755	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1756	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1757	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1758	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1759	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1760	The amendment, by a general number 966 and a special 72, was therefore accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does this House accept the amendment with a general number of 972 and a special number of 75 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1761	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1762	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1763	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1764	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1765	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1766	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1767	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1768	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1769	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 972 and a special 75 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number 977 and a special number 78 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1770	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1771	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1772	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1773	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1774	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1775	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1776	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1777	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1778	The amendment, by a general number 977 and a special 78, was therefore accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number 978 and a special number 79 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1779	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1780	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1781	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1782	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1783	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1784	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1785	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1786	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1787	The amendment, by a general number 978 and a special 79, was therefore accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House accept the amendment, with a general number of 999, and a special number of 80 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1788	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1789	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1790	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1791	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1792	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1793	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1794	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1795	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1796	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 979 and a special 80 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 967 and a special number 73?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1797	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1798	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1799	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1800	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1801	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1802	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1803	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1804	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1805	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 967 and a special 73 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. We are entering the vote of the nominee. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1806	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1807	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1808	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1809	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1810	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1811	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1812	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1813	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1814	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. Consequently, the Ministry of Health bill: “Reforming the Administrative Organisation of mental health services, Centers for Experience of Rare and Comprehensive Diseases, Amendment of Pension Regulations of Law No.4387/2016 and other provisions” was accepted in principle and on articles. Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1815	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1816	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1817	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1818	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1819	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1820	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1821	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1822	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1823	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the Ministry of Health's draft law: ‘Reforming the Administrative Organisation of mental health services, Centres for the Experience of Rare and Comprehensive Diseases, Amendment of Pension Regulations of Law No.4387/2016 and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, on the principle of Articles and of the whole and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1824	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1825	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minutes of Thursday 26 January 2017 and Friday 27 January 2017 have been distributed and the House is asking whether they have been ratified.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1826	The minutes of Thursday 26 January 2017 and Friday 27 January 2017 were therefore validated. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-15-S1-commons.u1827	With the consent of the House at 22.54' the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Thursday 16 March 2017 at 9.30 p.m., on the subject of Parliament's work: a) parliamentary scrutiny, topical and urgent debate and b) legislative work, discussion and decision in accordance with Rule 62 of the Constitution and Rule 83 of the Rules of Procedure of Parliament on applications for waiver of immunity of Members, in accordance with the special agenda distributed.
