ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 9/10/2017, OA's minutes at its meetings of Thursday, 9 February 2017, with regard to the resolution to the whole draft law: ‘Consolidation of the subjects of the State Certificate of Language, the National Library of Greece and other provisions’.]] We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS We begin with the first 443/11/6-2-2017 topical question by the President of the Parliamentary Group Potami and MP I Thessaloniki Mr Stavros Theodorakis, to the Prime Minister, in accordance with Rules 129 and 132 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, on corruption in Greece. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that in the previous session the Prime Minister and questions from Members of Parliament had answered. At the current summit, only two proposals have been made for discussion at the "Prime Minister's Time", as we called it, and they are both from the President of Potamio, Mr Theodorakis. They have not been submitted by other party leaders. Of course, a motion has been tabled on several occasions by a Member of the Democratic Integration and perhaps by one or two other Members. I always talk about this procedure. In this sense, I could say that there is a consistency to a strong degree in relation to the past. And, in any case, this process is relaunching, which I think is particularly interesting for all of us. I should like to say to you in writing that, at first, the President of the River Parliamentary Group has the floor for two minutes in order to develop his timely question. The Prime Minister then has the floor for six minutes. The honourable Member then has the floor for four minutes. And then the Prime Minister has his second language for three minutes. Because this debate concerns the President of the Parliamentary Group and, of course, the Prime Minister, you realise that there will be quite a lot of flexibility in time so that there can be a substantial debate. I would very much ask the President of the River Parliamentary Group to speak in order to develop his timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a good news. Our country has ninety-five structures to combat corruption. I mean, we can sleep alone. We have dozens of agencies, we have a Minister, we have a Secretary-General, we have independent authorities, we have offices and committees dealing with the fight against corruption. People who work nighttime, people who pay overtime. Good news ends here. The bad news is that once again our country is at the bottom of the transparency reports. In particular, over the last two years, the years of SYRIZA - ANEL, Greece has plummeted eleven positions on the list of international transparency and is now in the sixty-sixteenth place for a total of sixty-eight countries. Together with neighbouring Bulgaria we are the most opaque countries in Europe. We are talking about opacity and corruption that are seriously harming democracy and the economy. Corruption creates - and you will not just hear it from me - breaches of injustice and anxieties in society, fills citizens with anger and pushes them into extreme political behaviour. On the economic side, the level of corruption in Greece is estimated at nearly EUR 20 billion and opacity along with the paradox economy creates a closed system that distorts competition and strengthens those who are tolerated or promoted by corruption. And the head of the OSCE anti-corruption working party, Drago Kos, says that Greece is the "good sleep" of corruption, the sleep we talked about. You do services and you think you can sleep in peace. Corruption reduces GDP and is a form of indirect taxation. In Greece, ladies and gentlemen, the start of business requires forty days and three days in Estonia, while in Uganda the latest figures show that to sell a property it takes ten separate procedures. The same is true in Greece. Along with the African country, we are at the forefront of bureaucracy involving real estate transfers. I say that because when we talk about corruption, we need to talk about the problems that are giving birth to her. Terrible bureaucracy, delays in administration of justice, obstacles to entrepreneurship and pluralism bring corruption. Of course, the undivided domination of the party state, but also the opacity of recruitment and promotion. I will not be tempted to discuss the scandals and scandals accompanying the SYRIZA - ANEL government term. But I want to make two stops, in immigration and in public works contractors. The government has not even been able to house immigrants and refugees. People die in the camps, and from the outside there is a million-dollar party. No coordination, no control, no scandals. And public works with the bay of partition constantly share the money with the same people. It's typical of the Pyrgos - Patras highway. You have broken the work into eight contractors, to supposedly work more, and already the first four contractors have been given to the chosen SYRIZA - ANEL, a man who had tried to make a SYRIZA TV, did not succeed, and now he is clarified in another symmetrical newspaper. So we are at the bottom of Europe, and your moral advantage not only has it not interrupted corruption, but has strengthened it, as is evidenced by international transparency. [[At this point the closing bell of the party president's speaking time is ringing The Potami]] You did not want the National Coordinator against Corruption and you replaced him with an anti-corruption minister, Mr. Nikoloudis, and you abolished him and you created a place of deputy to the Ministry of Justice, placing a former commander of the NDP there. You either have too much sense of humor or do not understand the concepts of 'corruption' and 'complication' exactly.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u3	Mr. Theodorakis, shorten up a little, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u4	I shall be briefing some specific proposals. It is interesting, however, that with the amendments, which you brought to the last law passed by the House in 2016, you bring a series of new offices to the Secretariat-General for Combating Corruption. In other words, a complaints office, a national strategic planning office against corruption, a policy coordination office against fraud. It's like coming back and believing again in a new form of exorcism. In other words, put labels against corruption everywhere, believing that corruption will not pass within the country, within the administration. What do we suggest? In particular, we propose that the National Coordinator against Corruption with enhanced powers, an independent authority that will have the authority to do from sudden controls to confiscation of documents, the introduction of the state's obligation to have a single final law by subject, without windows and asterisks. Of course, the Single Procurement Authority with uniform rules for public procurement, without loopholes. Create a "Tiresia Corruption" for companies involved in corruption cases and a ban on suppliers, as we have said before, and public contractors having television frequencies. Check the place in 'where you came from.' A sample of politicians, journalists, tax collectors, judges and all those taking jobs from the state. None of what I mentioned wants money. But he wants the mood for conflict with interests and guilds. And he wants a plan and an appetite for work, things that your government lacks, Prime Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, too. The Prime Minister, Alexis Tsipras, has the floor for his prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Theodorakis, ladies and gentlemen, corruption in the country - and I think we all know that - is not a marginal phenomenon. It is an inextricably linked phenomenon, one would say, with the social and political history of the country. It is not about a few who choose, risking their reputation and personal freedom, to engage in hunting for easy enrichment. This phenomenon is linked to the conditions of the development of capitalism in Greece and we need to analyse it in depth, because it is a structural problem. It would not be new if we said that the giantization of corruption was related to institutional disability, pluralism, evil, the client state. In short, it is an intrinsic feature of an economic and political network of power built in the country, especially after the Transmigration, with specific political forces, who have found shelter and coverage in both parties that have ruled the country for over forty years. I think I will take open doors if I say that the monstrous bureaucracy of the Greek state, the lack of clear procedures in the public administration, which we inherited, is not the result of incompetence from the previous governments. I would say that, on the contrary, there has been political choices to ensure that this institutional framework is not established which could limit the phenomenon of corruption. It has been the result of choices that prevented institutional armour. It is therefore a political objective, in the long term, to tackle corruption. One state and one society, however, which has learned to operate in this way, is not transformed from one day to the next. Strategic plan is needed, studied moves. Above all, however, I would say that political will is needed. And let me say that, given the lack of an institutional framework for protection against corruption, a moral stature is also required, which our government has proved to have. And I'm going to be specific. This government has recognised that corruption in its widest sense, including tax evasion, but also the more refined economic crime and the money laundering and all sorts of customer practices and auditing practices, was one of the main causes that the economic crisis hit our country in a more severe way than was hit by other European Union countries. It is enough to take a look at the revenues of the Greek state, which even the growth periods were very far back in relation to the European averages. The reasons, I think, are simple: extensive tax evasion, rageous smuggling, black economy, unacceptable management of public finances, overpriced public works and much more. All this has increased so that our country can reach the verge of bankruptcy. It can therefore only be a priority to tackle corruption. But, you know, it also has political costs for a government. And we take this political cost, since the strong interests that have learned to go on these terms and win through this complex network are resisting and unleashing a rabies attack every day. You know what, it's just this attack that is for us an indicator that we're doing something good. I'll start worrying when the attacks stop. Let me now tell you that, when we talk about data and statistics, in response to the main theme of your question, Mr Theodorakis, it is an incomprehensible condition for the credibility of the argument or criticism expressed by those figures to come from official bodies whose methodology and reliability are undeniable. In the case of this notorious classification to which you refer in your question and which has been reproduced by the media, this treaty is not satisfied. The non-governmental organisation of International Transparency, to which you refer, publishes a ranking on the subjective perception of corruption rather than the reality of corruption. In other words, this assessment concerns individual perceptions that have specific experts on the existence of corruption in the state and in the political system. To make it clearer the problem of the credibility of the perception index, I will only tell you that, on the basis of this concrete assessment you are referring to, our country has gathered a better score in 1996, 1997 and 2000. At that time, when, on the Governments of Mr Simitis, Minister of State, Mr Tsochazopoulos, Mr Papantoniou, Mr Mandeli and others, there was a precursor of corruption in relation to the contracts on armaments. You know it. So on the basis of these surveys you are referring to, we have had the best returns. So one is reasonably wondering whether all those years were pomegranate. It is important, however, that this classification, which I do not want to deceive. It is important not in terms of unsatisfactory enlargement, as some people claim, of corruption. It is important in terms of the perception of corruption. This perception is clear that these days are now widespread and therefore has a justification for the result. It is extensive, because we are living at a time when the group of corruption has now broken and the government is not afraid to clash, without accounting for political costs, while at the same time justice has been left without pressure to operate unbiasedly and unfetteredly, apart from interventions, which I think was the key feature of the previous governments. Let me quote a few points which show the mark of this government's work in the fight against corruption and greater transparency, but also in lawlessness. Firstly, the progress made with the notorious tax-government lists, which I would remind you that previous governments either hid in drawers or refused to receive. Already from the Borgian and Lagard lists, from the controls on offshore, from the transfers abroad, from natural persons and businesses that hold great wealth, there are more than one billion euros established. The recovery of these amounts is progressing rapidly and is one of the main sources of funding for social policy and support measures that we have been able to provide, despite the financial difficulties that the country has, such as the one-twelfth pension, the EUR 620 million allocated to the low pensioners at the end of 2016. In addition, about a thousand proceedings have been formed, concerning the Borgians list, which I recall had refused to receive from the authorities of Rhineland-Westphalia, while, at the same time, a brutal effort, which will bring significant results in the next period, unifying all the lists of grand depositors that have come to the hands of the Greek authorities in a single list of one million hundred and seventy thousand tax registers, which will be thoroughly audited for the uses and the possible concealment of taxable material. Secondly, strong blows to the smuggling of tobacco and fuels have been recorded, and we have set up a Coordinating Centre for the Fight against Smuggling. In tobacco we have succeeded in more than double the controls at customs and, almost ten times, in two years' time. I would like to mention the following: 11 thousand seven hundred and fifty-four audits had been carried out in 2014, which gave the public funds EUR 59 000 000. In 2016, the controls reached the twenty-four thousand, and since 59,000 we went to the public funds to avoid doubting how the economy suddenly started to overturn, to have revenues and to catch the targets. Such an effort, without such impressive results, is also being made in the fight against smuggling, where in a two-year period the controls over twenty-seven thousand have exceeded forty thousand and the certified fines have doubled from 18,000,000 to 37,000,000. Thirdly, we have established a new, modern and transparent framework for public procurement, a framework which lays down uniform procurement rules for all categories of contracts and introduce regulations that enhance transparency, accountability, simplification and flexibility of procedures. Furthermore, the National System of Electronic Procurement applies in general to all contracting authorities in the country the electronic management of tenders for supplies of goods and services over 60,000 euros. The electronicisation of procedures for public works and studies will hopefully be implemented by mid-2017. Also, the new law has made it compulsory to post all elements of the whole cycle in the Central Electronic Register of Public Conventions from the primary demand up to the payment of any procurement equal to or above EUR 1,000. This obligation applies to all contracting authorities in the country. Fourthly, we have brought a law, which was passed in this Chamber with the consent of almost all parties, with broad consensus, which finally simplifys the procedures for setting up a business through the "Stage Services". The minimisation of the administrative burden faced by an undertaking at the stage of its establishment is a key condition for the smooth integration of its operation and for the rapid development of its operations, while at the same time reducing to a minimum the possibility of corruption in the course of successive bureaucratic procedures when it is established. Fifthly, we put an end to this waste facility that characterised public works contracts. Nearly EUR 1 billion was saved from the renegotiation involving mainly motorways and, at the same time, we were able to relaunch all the projects that had been stopped and, in fact, with respect for transparency and the public interest. In addition to this, however, a series of very large cases of corruption and conflict have emerged, which we have been hiding for years under the carpet, because those involved in these cases have been at the headquarters of the government. I will only stand by some of the cases, because the list is long and the time is limited. I would like to refer to two cases in the field of health, where a party has been set up for years for corruption and the destruction of public money, a dissatisfaction with which some have become rich, when governments at the time - because we are not talking about the rose ages, we are talking about the times of the memoranda - have broken up the structures of public health because they were supposedly costly. I am referring to the CEDEFOP scandal, which has finally been brought to the point where they refused to drive it by those who are today being cut off for public health and public hospitals. It was brought to justice, that is. I shall say, without spins, the following: CEDEFOP, in our view, is a man of black money, of rhetorical recruitment and of economic opacity. It is an agency that had no regulation, did not keep accounts, does not operate a procurement office, there was no delivery protocol for equipment and supplies, and all it left was an intransigent debt of EUR 185,000. The party, however, is over. The people involved will be brought before justice as a minimum obligation to a deprivate people, in the years that have all been in CEDEFOP, the basic right to access public health. Next to the case of CEDEFOP, there is an even darker case, the case of NOVARTIS. The NOVARTIS scandal is the expression of an opaque pricing method based on specific legislative measures. A decisive factor was the fact that our country was a reference country to determine the price of medicines in another fifty-five countries. Therefore, a high price in our country has ensured increased profits in another fifty-five countries for companies, which are fifty-five countries, if you want - and the significantly larger market. Furthermore, the way in which the insurance funds - including the EEA - have been paying pharmacy, pharmaceutical companies, etc., without any negotiation on the price of medicines, had nothing to do with what was in place at the same time in other European countries. This has led to a huge expansion of pharmaceutical expenditure through and through the directed prescribing process. One of the companies - not probably the only one - which is being investigated as a driving force in this process was then 'NOVARTIS'. Already take the road to the prosecutor, serious data on 2012, 2013, 2014, where the provisions added to the ministerial decisions led to an increase in the price of certain medicines - and the "NOVARTIS" and others - despite the opposite suggestion of the relevant committee of the EOF. The ERIC and NOVARTIS, therefore, are two top cases of health scandals. They are linked - in our assessment - and people who participated in committees - professors, political executives - who guided the pricing of medicines and were - important gears of the black money distribution mechanism to specific health guidelines. From one point to the next, if you wish, it was also a buy-out mechanism for specific people through the media to ensure that the relevant officials or civil servants of the Ministry of Health are treated favourably. All this, ladies and gentlemen, with concrete information, has been given to justice. We expect the process of responsibility to be speeded up by justice, which now has the floor. But let me ask a very simple question here: why is it that none of the relevant ministers, at that time, are talking about this? Why don't they just ask that, with a simple statement, abundant light be poured out? Do they have anything to hide? You know, if anyone comes out and says that in 2015 or 2016 in Maximus - which I am - there was an orgy of corruption, the first thing I will do - and that anyone who has nothing to fear - will be asked for justice to speed up all to light. Apparently here we have a veil of silence. I personally think that makes me think. And we have a veil of silence in terms of media, which, otherwise, of fleas are lame. For these top, in our view, health scandals. I think, however, that these issues will concern us again next time. I just want to say a few words, because I think we have exhausted the debate on the Committee of Inquiry and the big issue of the most important triangle of the interoperable political system - banks and the media. And, of course, I would like to say that, through the action of this triangle, consciences have been unleashed in the country, governments have been blackmailed, social correlations have been formed, developments have been affected. Political formations were born and died because this triangle decided. The stride was up and downing governments. Governments grew up on our TV screens. Political opponents were beaten. Politics characters were murdered because they did not succumb to extortion and much more known. I will only say that the EUR 1.7 billion allocated to the media and to parties in power is a result which has come out of a committee of inquiry, through a deep and substantial control which has been carried out for the first time by Parliament, and is an improper element for the big party, which has been made in the country through bank lending. One wonders: Where were the control mechanisms at the place? Where was justice? Where was the independent journalism of the strong criticism of power when all of this was happening? I will conclude, ladies and gentlemen, with a reference to an issue that concerns us and all that we could call 'a complex of power in Greece' and I will listen very carefully after Mr Theodorakis to answer all the questions and possibly to someone who has put in addition to his written question and his prototype. I would like to refer to the reform that our own government has attempted in its institution 'from now on'. Our own law has made the statement for all the debtors compulsory, which facilitates cross-checking with tax declarations. At the same time, we restored control over most of the people in charge of laundering to the independent authority, while as far as the policies are concerned, which remains the responsibility of the committee, we have ensured that we strengthen the independence of this committee. Now only three of the nine members of the committee come from Parliament because, as you know, our people are saying 'Korako eye...'. So six of the nine are either judges or independent officials. [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] The third point is absolute transparency through publicity, while the fourth element of the reform relates to the obligation to declare all high-value securities and also to cash outside bank accounts. And I honestly do not understand the reaction of some to these initiatives. The fact is, therefore, that this government, in less than two years, has done much more than they have done to combat corruption and transparency in the PASOK and New Democracy governments in almost forty years of governance. Obviously, we have not done everything we would have liked to have done. However, we are determined to do more about the institutional framework for the financing of the parties, to strengthen public prosecutors, to unify the audit bodies, to upgrade the Ministries' internal audit offices, to simplify procedures. We are open, Mr Theodorakis, to proposals which could be constructive. But what I would like to say in closing is that the fight against corruption and the institutional armour of the state is not just a matter, if you want, of economic efficiency, but a matter of social justice and equality. And what is primarily needed is political will to ignore the political cost, because these choices have a great deal of political cost. Our commitment to Parliament and to the Greek people is not to account for the political cost and to move with determination to the institutional shield against the phenomena of corruption and complexity. This is our commitment to the Greek people and this commitment will be kept in full.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u7	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u8	Mr President, I request the floor. He's addressed to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u9	Mr Georgiadis, Mr. Comrade, you have no say. You know very well what the Prime Minister's answer is.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u10	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u11	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u12	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u13	Mr. Georgiadis, you don't have the floor. The Rules of Procedure are specific.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u14	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u15	Mr Georgiadis, what you say is not written in the Minutes. Secondly, you especially have the possibility...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u16	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u17	Don't interrupt me, please! Your name has not been mentioned.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u18	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u19	Mr. Georgiadis, will you listen to me? Please, please, stop. We're not setting an incident in here. Understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u20	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u21	Mr. Georgiadis, first, your name has not been mentioned. Secondly, you know very well what the specific procedure is when the Prime Minister answers and even the party leader. And thirdly, you are a high-ranking official, Vice-President of the Civilian Opposition Party and could - or you could - your party, through the Chief or in a way that you will judge, use - which you have not done for 15 months - the Prime Minister's ability and will to be present in such discussions. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Please. Please. So in a debate on the initiative of another party leader, where you are not mentioned individually, it is incomprehensible that you should like to speak in the Chamber. Mr. Theodorakis, you will have the floor, since, please, we salute the children who are here. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, twenty-one students and students and two educational escorts from the Cardamana Municipal School in Kos. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The President of Potamio, Mr Theodorakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u22	Mr. President, how long will I have?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u23	Last time you spoke three and a half times more. That's how you're gonna talk now. It's four minutes' formality. I'm putting it...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u24	No, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u25	You spoke seven and a half minutes the first time and now you will speak ten, twelve minutes, Mr Theodorakis, if you do not object.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u26	No, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u27	If you want more, you'll talk more. Don't put a matter of time, because I'm telling you it's a comfortable conversation.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u28	I'll talk less. But I want a little justice in the game, Mr President. I mean, I'm asking the question, you're pushing me to finish in four minutes, and the Prime Minister is answering for twenty-five minutes. To agree between us that we will come here to talk, but the rules cannot be just on one side, but only on the one side.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u29	We will now agree, Mr. Theodorakis...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u30	You'll have to follow the rules.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u31	We will agree that the rules are exactly the same. Let me tell you - I know more than figures and figures - that you spoke seven and a half minutes, that is, three and a half times more than two minutes and the Prime Minister is the same by chance. So will the second time. You will be well placed, and the Prime Minister will also. Please, let's go to the point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u32	Mr Tsipras, I think once again you are proving that you have your own reality, which has little to do with the reality that the Greeks are currently living in, first to try to question the elements of International Transparency. We contacted - and it was not difficult - with International Transparency and told us that Greece's corruption index came up on the basis of concrete evidence, which gave seven international organisations, most of whom also advise candidate investors who want to come to our country. You said you were trying on the lists, trying to smuggle. Do you want to discuss what you promised the Greek people? You said to January 2015, Mr President, that by the summer of 2015 you will receive 2.5 billion from the liquidation of corruption cases, that in six months you will bring 2.5 billion, that you will bring 1.5 billion from the fight against smuggling in fuel and 800 million from the fight against smuggling of tobacco. And I remember Mr Alexiadis in a television show saying, 'We are doing it, we have caught 60 litres of oil smuggling'. That's what Mr Alexiadis said. But you also referred to some millions, while you have promised some billions to the Greek people for 2015. Where's the money? Why so incompetent? To accept that it's incompetent. But why so incompetent? If corruption is not a priority, then what is it? And by the way, you forgot to tell us about your favorite topic, the topic of 'SIEMENS'. Why isn't the case going on? Why isn't he avenged? Still translate the errand from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs? Why is this delay in your hands, the delay with all the previous governments? Look out, ladies and gentlemen. Having studied the International Transparency Report and since the Prime Minister accepts that there is evidence to be used, let us see what the report says, not the worst, but the best. It says that countries with the best scores on the International Transparency list share the following four features: high levels of press freedom, an open state budget, so that citizens know where the resources come from and mainly where their money is spent. Thirdly, high levels of integrity of people, who hold public office and a fourth, justice that does not discriminate between the poor and the rich and is completely independent of the government. So there are four very specific criteria for being with the best. What do you call SYRIZA - ANEL? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Because they are the four areas you want to check: press control, party budget, party state, party appointments and people who in your own years dare and decide to take a few dozens of millions late for their short term in a service. I am talking about the EUR 200 million that was discovered to have been decided by some to take for themselves, which is a casting perhaps of all those who are not revealed. And, of course, there is an attempt of party justice. I am talking about an effort, which continues at the highest levels, to violate even the Constitution to increase the mandate of certain judges. You referred to where you were and I told you that there should be an attempt to deal seriously with the situation. And since you have an interest, see, gentlemen of the government, and some of the things you had in some of your ministers. Be careful, they have poor - Mr Stathakis, they are not for you - they are on holidays in Europe's most expensive sallets and on the other hand, they say that their total wallet is 5,000-6,000 euros. How are they going in Austria? With a hitchhike?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u33	Who are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u34	Please don't talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u35	Mr. Tsipras knows the name, but I don't want to embarrass him. I am referring, ladies and gentlemen... [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] Ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u36	Tell us names.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u37	Mr. Panjah, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u38	Because there are no questions from the MPs...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u39	Don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u40	...let me answer, 'cause we always speak with names. Is the statement from Mr Kammenos, the statement from your Minister and the quasi-president on religious and other matters, a statement honoring your governance? If you want, we can continue with other things. As far as the media are concerned... [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Are you asking about my place? What do you mean, Mr. Comrade?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u41	Please! There's no such conversation.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u42	My own way, Mr. Colleague, is, I think, very clear and photographing a man who left a profession with very high incomes to get into politics. I would ask you to be patient, because everything has to be checked over time. I mean, it doesn't just matter how you get into politics, but like some old politician, who I think we all honor him, it matters to how much money you get out of politics. This must be judged by the Greek people both for me and for all of us. As far as the media is concerned, which the Prime Minister has mentioned, we must of course cut off the sea loans and of course we must punish those who took them. We have proposed to you in the previous debate, Mr President, that we find solutions to save the papers, save the journalists, not save the publishers. Because we have agreed that they must also pay transport and literally. But we must save the forms, we must make an effort to save the peripheral newspapers that are sinking. Can we do it? They have done so in many European countries. But you only need to be convinced that there is reason to save the independent newspapers and the independent voices. Because I fear that what you are interested in is that, of course, citizens from newspapers such as "THONI", "KANDRA NEWS" and of course from inside that are party-controlled and controlled...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u43	You're not saying anything about the "original theme".
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u44	...inside - I told you to answer and you didn't answer - which are being strengthened at the moment by some who seem to be getting privilegedly broken contractors. I told you about the Tower - Patras. Give me an explanation. You broke the work in eight and the first four contractors came to a man who was clearly linked to the ministers of SYRIZA. It has already taken 50% of the project, as long as it's out, a man who tried to create a SYRIZA TV with pastures and who then published a newspaper that praises every day, or at least once a week, SYRIZA and ANEL. The closure of newspapers is not the solution and our doctrine should not be: 'The closed newspapers or with us'. In conclusion, on the major issue of corruption and transparency, you are making a mistake, Mr President. Compare and keep trying to compare your days to the worst days of the past. You mentioned politicians who have stolen the Greek people. Some of them are in jail and some of them aren't. Is that supposed to be the measure? Is that the bar? The worst of the past? We tell you and we invite you to stand up to the past, to hit corruption, to hit the guilds, to hit the interests, and not to talk about the past that has been condemned by the Greek people. We dare to talk about the mistakes of the past, confronted by what the Greek people want. And I think what the Greek people want from you, from us, from all of us, from the House is not to compare to the dark days, to the 'accidents' of the past. What the Greek people want is to collide with our future. And that's where I think your government has failed. The opacity goes on. Corruption continues. I have mentioned specific areas that for the first time have been called upon to manage, such as migration, such as new projects and there your score is negative. I'm expecting specific answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u45	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after taking part in the educational programme of the "Corporate of Democracy" organized by the Foundation of Parliament, thirteen students and students and a teacher from the 41st Pireau Municipal School of Piraeus. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The Prime Minister has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u46	Mr President, I will be brief, because I have had a long time in my prototype. I heard Mr. Theodorakis with caution. Mr Theodorakis, no one claims that we have magic wand and magical solutions. But I repeat what I said in my prototype. Greece is a country which obviously has a serious problem with transparency and corruption. However, if we compare the efforts and initiatives taken by this government over the last two years, the issues raised and brought to justice, the way in which we are trying to shed plenty of light on a number of critical cases (SIEMENS, CENP, NOVARTIS) and, if we compare the efforts we have made and the results that have been made in recent years, we will find that day by night. We're open to proposals, positive contributions. But, Mr Theodorakis, you cannot overlook the fact that these two years have become very important and concrete steps. We may not have managed to catch the sums that we hoped for when we started, especially in the area of smuggling. But you must admit that our results are worthwhile results, especially in the tobacco sector. Cigarette seizures at customs in 2015 reached three hundred and twenty-seven million pieces, in 2016 four hundred and fifty-six million. Of these confiscations, 600 million euros were established, and we are talking about a ten-fold increase in confirmed revenues in public funds, which came only from the fight against smuggling in tobacco. Why couldn't previous governments do that? The same happened in alcoholic drinks.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u47	How much was collected? Another one was confirmed, another one was collected.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u48	I told you, Mr. Kaklamani. In 2015, in alcoholic beverages, we had fifty - two thousand litres, in 2016, two hundred forty - nine thousand litres. We've had doubling the certified sums, 40 million. Look. There is no doubt at all that being able to clash and, above all, bringing results to a network of corruption, which is widespread and has deep roots, takes time, wants conflicts, wants determination. We have shown this determination. I come to a number of issues which you have raised and which, in my opinion, are crucial. You mentioned once again, because it has become the 'caramella' of days, to a businessman, whom we did not create, we found him. We didn't make any businessmen. Yes, Mr. Theodorakis, may I say something? He's not a partner of my partners. Partner of Mr Theodorikos, who is a partner of Mr. Mitsotakis. We didn't make any competitions to award, Mr. Theodorakis. We didn't award any contests. The reason why we really broke the Patras tower into many contractors was to be able to take more contractors than was the case in the past. We didn't make it to you, because one guy goes and takes it down. But the process is open. Why are you blaming us for that? Mr Spirtzis, the Minister for Infrastructure, had the emotiveness in all three and four proceedings to go to the prosecutors and to give all the evidence to check and, if necessary, intervene. Who else did this? It's easy to throw mud on the fan by saying something that can work, but see concrete results. I come to another crucial, in my view, issue. You spoke about the 'SIEMENS' case and I must tell you that you are absolutely right. There is an invisible hand, which has been intervening throughout the past period in order to prevent a trial which has been awaited for many years and which has been awaited by the Greek people. In some strange way and for some strange reason all of a sudden, and otherwise they have terrible potential, they have not been able to translate and postpone a trial. With our own efforts coordinated this trial did not go to the bells. The trial begins on February 24, 2017, i.e. now. On the defendant's stand, sixty-seven executives will sit, but one will not sit: Mr. Christoforkos. Mr Christoforkos will not sit down because some governments, of which he was a friend, had made sure that he left the country. As was the case with someone else, Mr Karavela, on the part of Mrs Bakoyannis. If this had happened in our own days, we would have been hung up in the handkerchiefs! Mr. Christophorus won't sit at the defendant's stand. Greek justice for our day, July, issued a new arrest warrant for Mr. Christoforikos. I personally have put to Chancellor Merkel on several occasions the issue of the extradition of Mr. Christoforakou, in order to make a fair trial here in Greece, to give Greek justice the responsibilities and to tell us what he knows about the money of parties and political persons. I would like to ask myself and raise this matter in public: I know that Mr Mitsotakis will be in Chancelloria in a few days to meet Mrs Merkel. Is this going to be the case? Will Mr. Christoforkos ask to come to Greece to publish and make public everything that has happened in the previous period? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] This will say a common front of the political forces in order to shed plenty of light on the corruption cases in the country. You referred to the issues of where you came from. Mr Theodorakis, you are very well aware that this government has become as obsolete as anyone else, despite the fact that, as I have explained before, we have made specific institutional interventions on the subject of where we were on matters which, as has been proved by the nine-member committee, which is not for the first time made up of parliamentarians for the majority of them, had no substance. Nevertheless, I remember for days the entire media, headlines, vulgar titles, first news on the Flemish issue. What was the big Flemish crime? That before becoming a Member of Parliament and dealing with politics was not a state-run company, but had a private business. The great crime they were looking for was if he had just been elected a Member or later declared what man said, because he had nothing to hide. That was the big crime! Now, if the Chief of Officer's Representation is asked to give all his whereabouts, there's a matter of yellowism, that we're dealing with issues, and we're pouring mud into the fan. You consider that if there are two measures and two weights from the same forms and the same media. But I would like to tell you something, which has substance, because the Greek people obviously know and understands. The big problem, Mr Theodorakis, with what we had at the end of the day is that we may know the "relevant" but we do not know the "subject". Where is the big deal?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u49	That's what we're saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u50	We agree, we do not dispute. So the big issue in my view, which is also a crucial issue of transparency for the political life of the country, is that it should be possible to control, especially when it is a public person, it is a duty to control, it is not yellowing and personal data and to state it openly and publicly and in particular the need, which as many committees as we have set up and as many non-parliamentarians as we have put it, it is not easy to locate it, as you know very well. You raised the issue of forms. I really want to answer you, because you were the only one who, when I was here a month ago in the House, said 'we want the broad consensus of the parties in order to make arrangements to save a historic complex', Mr Mitsotakis denounced me and said that we cannot afford public money to organisations. "Preacher" was good to get sea loans, but that was public money! You were the only one to say 'yes'. Mrs. Gennamas didn't understand what happened. Mrs. Gennamas came after 15 days and suggested a cross-party committee to examine it. You know the cotton joke that says to build a three-member committee of five people! [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Ms. CHRISTOPOULOUou, takes over the President's seat.]] What do we do with the intergroup? Time's up. Is there a court ruling now, which is irrevocable, and now will Parliament be called upon to go against the justice ruling when so much has been made public in relation to how politicians decide against the laws to give loans to the media? Unfortunately - and I say this in full conscience, because at the end of the day, if he said so to any other newspaper that would be friendly to SYRIZA, some would say that I am doing so because I want to have a favourable treatment from the media - there are not only the huge property responsibilities here. There are also the enormous responsibilities of a political system that is hypocritical and pours crocodile tears. The jobs for me - in every business, not just in it - are the greatest good for people who work and risk losing them. We do have a case here that is really sad. I want to close by making a more general report. The results we have from the fight against corruption, both in terms of established receipts and in terms of corruption, are impressive. They could have been bigger. But I want to tell you something. If we have managed to get far from the fire zone today, if we are not in the light of the fact that we have managed not to be with our backs on the wall and in view of the critical negotiation, this is due to the fact - no one has expected it - that we closed in 2016 with growth, while everyone was waiting for a recession - and the International Monetary Fund - and while we were constantly blocking the cutting block last year, and even the Precious Opposition considered it to be activated, not only was the cut, but the donor was activated and we also gave pensions. This is largely because the target was 0.5% for the surplus and we exceeded 2%. That is why for all the serious people in Europe what they are asking us for is the theater of irrationality. They say it. We don't. Read the German press. How did we get that? We have done so to a large extent and thanks to the fact that we have ended in this place the great food, that we have managed and guaranteed money from tax evasion, from smuggling, that we have managed and had receipts. This, ladies and gentlemen, is something you must believe in the government, even those who disagree with our policies, in our view, with our actions. I must say here that this story has a future. For the first time, some people who had become accustomed not to cross tax. For the first time debts were established. For the first time, we got money from the ones the previous governments had never touched, from the owners of private television stations. With regard to our voluntary disclosure initiative, cooperation with the tax authorities of foreign countries, together with the suffocating pressure exerted by the audit services and the prosecution authorities on big-time and six tax-payers bears fruit. By the beginning of the month some thirteen thousand declarations under the voluntary disclosure law have been submitted when some people considered that these high rates will not come to state. I would like to say by closing that the great 'fascist' has stopped in the country, the great theft has stopped. For the first time we asked for and sat in the cashier's guise to pay those who didn't pay. This has led us to be able to get away from the traps that set us up, because it is certain that they do not like and very much that this will be the government that will get the country out of the crisis. We'll make it, though. We'll get the country out of the crisis with society standing up!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u51	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u52	Mr Papachristopoulos, there is no procedure in which you can ask for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u53	I respect the process and I've never interrupted. I'd like a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u54	No, not half, not one. It can't be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u55	Mr. Theodorakis mentioned in name to me...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u56	It cannot be done, Mr Papachristopoulos, because there will be an issue. Then others will ask for the floor. The debate on the current question to the Prime Minister has been concluded. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House the topical and urgent question issue of Monday 13 February 2017. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 449/6-2-2017 by MP Chios of New Democracy Mr Panagiotis Mitarakis to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport concerning the extension of the airport of Chios. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance about the further gradual removal of capital controls. 3. The Question No 458/7-2-2017 by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthakis to the Ministers for Health and Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on works contracts in hospitals and the circumvention of the right to maternity. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question raised by Mr Georgios Vlachos with regard to the proposals - requests from the Mediterranean municipalities in view of the consultation on the renewal of the Athens International Airport Convention "Eleftherios Venizelos" with the Greek State for the period 2025-2055. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. PASOK-DIMAR Mr. Friday Christophilopoulos to the Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the suspension of the insurance law on blocks, until the injustices caused by its distorting application have been lifted. 3. The question raised by Mr Ioannis Giokas, Member of the European Parliament, Mr Ioannis Giokas, Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the serious problems of the Foundation's operation "PAMMAKARISTOS" because of state sub-financing. 4. The question by number 404/30-1-2017 of the MP Carditsa of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Chrysula Katsavria - Siropoulou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food regarding the drafting of a National Plan to support cotton production. 5. The Question No 413/30-1-2017 by MP Arta, New Democracy, George Stylios, to the Minister of Health, concerning the non-payment of cleanliness staff from the General Hospital of Arta. 6. The Question No 399/27-1-2017 by the New Democracy MP, Jason Fotella, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, concerning the delay in the project to extend the Peninsula Canal to Western Achaia. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The Question No 365/20-1-2017 by MP Achaias of New Democracy Mr Andreas Katsaniotis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs about the reopening of transitional sections of the TEI of Western Greece. 8. The question by No. 423/31-1-2017 of the Greek People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Antonio Gregos to the Minister of Culture and Sport, concerning the "prison of the name "Macedonia" to sports organisations. 9. The question by No. 387/24-1-2017, by MEP B' Athens of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Panagiotarou to the Minister of Finance, concerning the "legislative arrangement for extending approved expenses beyond hospitals". 10. The question by No. 403/30-1-2017, by MP Achaias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Theodoros Papatheodorou to the Minister of National Defence, concerning the "dismantling of European funding - inappropriate feeding of refugees". 11. The Question No 337/13-1-2017 by the Vice-President of the Parliament and Deputy Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Health regarding the scope of the application of telemedicine in Greece. 12. The question under number 451/6-2-2017 by MP II of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdus to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, concerning the parental equality and the conspiracy of children. 13. Observations of the Court of Justice The question by number 428/31-1-2017 of the Greek Communist Party MEP, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, concerning the immediate recruitment of fixed-term contractors (IDHO) - the guardians of museums and archaeological sites with permanent and stable working status. 14. Observed. The Question No 389/24-1-2017 by MP Aitolokarnania of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Nikolaos Moraitis to the Minister of Health on the payment of workers cleaners to the services of the General Hospital of Artas. 15. The Question No 408/30-1-2017 by the Member of Parliament of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Ioannis Giokas to the Minister of Health about the serious problems of families and workers in special education services. 16. Observations of the Committee of the Regions The question by No. 402/27-1-2017, by MEP I Thessaloniki, Mr.Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister of Health, concerning the reduction of the cost of diagnostic tests for breast cancer. 17. The 313/5-1-2017 topical question by Piraeus II of the Centro Association Mr.Theodoras Megalonikou to the Minister of Health regarding the risk of children and adolescents staying without treatment. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 89/5-10-2016 by the Member of the Dodecanese Parliament, Mr Emmanuel Konsolas, to the Minister of Health, concerning the completion and segregation of the Oncology Department of the Rhodes Hospital. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 89/5-10-2016 by Vice-President of the Parliament and Deputy Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Health concerning the completion and segregation of the Oncology Department of the Rhodes Hospital. We continue with the other topical questions that are scheduled for discussion. The number 2117/100/19-12-2016 question and request for the submission of documents by the Member of the Republican Association of PASOK - DIMARK KEgeroglou to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport on the delay in the completion of the project "Panamomomo - Exante" will be discussed. The State Secretary for Infrastructure and Transport will answer Mr Mavragans. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for your prototype. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Please be quiet, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u57	Until colleagues calm down, I would like to make a proposal. As the Rules of Procedure are amended now, the Prime Minister's time should be renamed to propaganda time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u58	While other prime ministers came here crying about the questions. Don't give up on that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u59	Do I have the floor or not, Madam President?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u60	You've got him and make use of him, because time runs.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u61	We are talking today about another issue, in which, on the basis of the Prime Minister's criterion, there should be a moral stature, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government has so far proved to be very 'closed'. It is the system of awarding public works. We therefore come beyond the voices which are being heard, to discuss the process of completing a section of the North Road Axis of Crete, a budget of 47 million, which was auctioned on 4-3 2014 and then proceeded through a procedure, with the opinion of the Legal Council of State, which was accepted by the Minister - and good to date - because the first person raised by the procedure as a candidate for the procedure did not have the legal conditions. Therefore, the Minister has received the opinion of the Legal Council of State to this end. Then, as provided for in the law, the second, third and so on, should be examined whether they have the legal conditions and whether the project is to be entrusted. Instead, in a delayed response from the Ministry, it is stated that "on the basis of the above and in order for there to be" - it says - "avoid further involvement, we will proceed to re-publishing the project", i.e. two years further, Minister. We need a new procedure and a new tender procedure, new evaluation procedures, and we will obviously have a huge delay. I would therefore say, as we say in the question, that you will consider your legal opportunity and, if you like, a procedure to proceed with the second, third and so on, so that the project can be entrusted and not lost another two years for this section of the North Road Axis, which the Ministry has recognised should be given priority. Any technical improvements needed, by passes or whatever, can be made in the process of implementing the project. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u62	Mr. Mavragany, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, I thank you, Mr Papoutsis, for the opportunity to address this issue, which, of course, also has implications for the overall scope for the award of projects and for the competitive procedures. This project, as you know - and this highlights the problems that existed in the past - has indeed been approved, as you said, in the first quarter of 2014 and has been integrated into the financing framework which expired with the time extension in December 2015. That meant what? That he would never be able to execute this work and get his money. Why? Because the tender issue itself - and I will give it to you in the documents you are asking for - provided for a period of implementation of the work four years. In 2015, therefore, the project was never to be executed and this money was never to be provided. However, this work also has other problems. It did not even follow, in the tender documents that were then issued, the environmental studies and the decision on environmental conditions that were precisely adopted. For example - I bring one example, because there are many - glazing to reduce noise in the residential areas from which the road was running. Also, because you spoke of the North Road Axis - and I would like to say this - it is a news and it is due to many of the good Members who exist in all the prefectures of Crete - the Ministry has been in its intention to proceed with a competitive process, especially international, in relation to the awarding of a strategic study for the North Road Axis, because it is a work of breath for Crete, which has been dragging away for over a long time and while it provides for about a hundred miles throughout its length it has been executed about fifty of them. As you know, however, there is, in the first instance, this possibility, after the first contractor, which was conscientious here and there was the problem. On the one hand, it is true that the degree fell, and the second partner actually went bankrupt and resigned himself, and we reached about 2016, where, after all, the committee resigned, made the decision that this contractor or the project register could not go ahead. Then there was the possibility for you to actually go to the second. However, the second aside from having a lower discount - a dose than the first - is obvious - is the problem that the studies themselves did not fulfil the conditions of environmental studies and conditions. On the other hand, from L.4412/2016 and our experience so far, it appears that the discounts we have achieved so far are 49% to 55%, when they have given a 34.5% discount, I mean the second contractor. This, along with the fact that we want and are in our intentions - and we announce it from now on - to extend the material object of the project, namely to include the extension of the Geropotamos, namely that this road should be made without fragmentation - and you have said it before - which could have other hidden aims, that a project should be carried out with the extension of the natural object on that axis and with the summary of the Geropotamos in order to ensure that there is no speeding up and that the project is united while it is only an extension of a kilometre, which has never been included in the past. So, for this reason, because, on the one hand, it is almost mature - within two months, it is finalised - for the extension of the physical object of the work, as I have said, for the summary and extension of the bridge of Geropotamos so that it is essentially an extension of the BOC and, on the other hand, for all the provisions on environmental studies that have not been included and all of this has to be included within a period of six months since they will end - if we have ever begun the proceedings of objections and appeals of this second consortium, we believe that we can proceed in a very short time now with the inclusion of the work of the Gerpotamos, as I have said.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u64	Here, Mr Kegeroglu, you have the floor for three minutes. Please be precise in your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u65	Mr. Undersecretary, I find your intentions honest. However, the first contractor was not rejected because the studies were not complete. If you use the arguments that the studies are not complete and you want to carry out a small project, which is a very small percentage compared to the total and can be executed in motion after the award by partial modification of the studies and by supplementing it, then you fall into a great contradiction. Or the project is not complete, so it is not the first one for this reason - it does not have complete studies, it contradicts environmental or what you said - or the first one is rejected because of the legal problem. So since all this has been examined and you have come to ask the Legal Council for an opinion, which said that it does not have the prerequisites for the first and that one of the partners in the parliamentary system cannot be replaced, you have to go to the second and under the same conditions to consider whether it has the possibility or the third. If you change and want to re-publish, there must be a reasoned decision, but it cannot be ex post after the rejection of the first for the legal reason. It should have been in the first place. This means that there is an invention of documentation so that you do not go ahead with the conclusion of the tendering procedure and, obviously, it will cause legal claims from the second, third and others, because the procedure to be followed is not exactly what has to be done. I say this to you, because those who suggest that, with the slight modification of the hemidom will be regarded as another project, they are mistaken. There are bills that the project is considered to be different if it is a large percentage and then it is modified and changed. This is not the case in this case. So he calls on you to proceed immediately without losing time - so everyone on the island wants - so that we don't have two more years, as we appreciate. You'll see, Minister. Don't tell me that we won't be able to object from here, or we won't be able to control the legality of the others involved. All this lasts two years. Although as far as the update of the studies is concerned, no work has yet been started with the new law! It was a big gap in the legislative initiative. Although the new law was in the right direction, it did not, unfortunately, provide for a transitional period. We therefore call on you to reconsider this position - and let us not respond today - in the direction of not losing any more time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u66	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u67	Of course, Mr Papoutsis, our intention is to serve the public interest and the public good. I think that every proposal in this direction is legitimate, as is yours. On the other hand, however, I would like to remind you that this problem in the first consortium arose from complaints between the contractors, who said that in the first consortium one of the two consortia did not have that degree because it did not make such an increase in share capital. The Soufly Act was then allowed to proclaim an increase in share capital - to listen to these - without ever carrying out it. So here, he probably hadn't executed it and a complaint was made by one of them in there, the incorpo, that he had not executed it. Thus, he did lose, not for road projects, his degree and at the moment he could actually resign from the other consortium, because of economic weakness, and the first consortium fell. So this process had actually begun before we took over the country's governance. In particular, the complaints were made at the end of 2014 and at the beginning of 2015. I reply to your question 'why did you not make an overall assessment since the whole situation?' Because this situation, with complaints in the hands, we received it and had to be judged first. Now, then, we come to this and see that there is no consortium. In other words, there is no one to whom the tender was actually awarded, the contractor. You can actually go to the second. However, in practice here, because we have been offered other projects in the region, and you say that the work of expansion could be done without being considered as a new contractor, there would be an impact on the basic principle, which the European Union has been substantially disturbing for six, seven years under its own regulations and two directives which it has adopted, that you should not distort competition. This is where you frustrate him when you change the material object of the project, when you do so. There we would have a problem of transparency and of distortion of competition. These days have passed for us. I am presenting for the Minutes the documents I have just mentioned I shall give. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister, Nikolaos Mavraganis, submits for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u68	We continue with the seventh under the number 378/23-1-2017 topical question of the second Athens Parliamentary Committee of the Republic of Greece, Anna Karamanlis, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the Interim Committee in Greek football. The relevant State Secretary, George Vasiliadis, will respond. Mrs Karamanlis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, Madam President. Maybe I need some more time. Mr. Undersecretary, Greek football has been suffering from known pathogens for years. Their resolution is an issue that goes beyond party differences. We believe that transparency is a good thing in trying to resolve it. That is why the New Democracy has shown responsibility - I will also present our communications in the Minutes -, unlike your predecessor who has come to us four times on the verge of Grexit and has ravaged systems and self-government, but ultimately in football he left only his lionisms. [[At this point, honourable Member Anna Karamanlis submits for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] For the last four months, therefore, Greek football has been run by the Committee on Disarmament, which, among other things, prioritises discussions with sports authorities on the amendment of national laws. Today we do not know exactly where the work of temporary administration lies. But your arrivals, too, show a strange tactic and I'll explain why. One, you will bring an amendment to the representative's election system in the EEIG by abstractly abolishing the law of your predecessor. The other point is that the committee's term of office also depends on the question of arbitration. Thirdly, you say that as State Secretary you do not intervene and expect the harmonisation of the statute of the UEFA to be completed. Once you have been interviewed, you are talking about reducing SUPER LEAGUE's teams to twelve and disarmament of arbitration from the Federation, because you do not want to embrace them. You know, of course, that you wish, because you do not have any institutional or legal means of intervention. In the meantime, UEFA representatives have come and discussed an amendment to the statutes of the NCA. There are meetings of the Associations Committee on the revision of the Statute. The NCA has sent the draft amendments to the UEFA for approval. The Temporary Director has decided to set up a legal committee for the preparation of changes to the statutes. It has developed a rumour of Mr. Koutsukumi's departure. There are a number of processes for which you have a clear picture and a view. So because we have lived with the amendment for the representatives of the ILO - an amendment that came 'night' following FIFA-UEFA' request, in a bill by the Ministry of Justice, spasmously and surprisingly, as you distractedly legislate in unrelated bills at night, this is the truth, with Mr. Kontonis being in the awkward position to see his law demolished in a bill proposed by him - so we ask you if you have been asked for a change in the Federation's electoral system. Yes or no? There is Article 47 of Law 2725/1999 relating to professional arbitration and so far has not been implemented. Is it from the articles FIFA wants to change? And if so, do you intend to do so? Because in your interviews you have expressed themselves in favour of professional arbitration. On the contrary, FIFA officials are unequivocal and consider it as casus belli. Will you take Article 1 of Law No.4326/2015, a law of your predecessor, which refers to administrative measures against violence, which you consider to be one of the achievements of your Government in sport? Will you get back the article 48 of L.4373/2016 on the coach profession? Let us conclude by saying this: did Mr Kontonis bring it, as he explained in the explanatory statement at the time that he brought the amendment on the legalisation of the Interim Administration, or did UEFA, on its own, following the decision of the Arbitration Court, as Mr Koutsoukoumis said - and I shall put it in the Minutes - in his statements? Mr Koutsoumis said: "The decision of the Arbitration Committee finally judged FIFA's intervention. The law intervenes in the self-employed, because the issue of election is an exclusive right of the members of the NRA." [[At this point, the Member, Anna Karamanlis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] I would ask you, therefore, to reply to me and to what you did not do so, I will come back. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u70	Here, Mr Vasiliadis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u71	Ladies and gentlemen, you have raised several issues, some of which were beyond what you have said in the question. However, I will try to answer everything. You said quite rightly that the pathogens of Greek football - I would say Greek sport, but let us focus on football - are well known to everyone and that there is a need for transparency and consensus, wisdom and understanding. I couldn't agree more. And I think that in this context I am also trying for my own part to inform and be in communication, but also not to interfere where I do not need to intervene, but to retain the right of the Greek state to intervene when I have to intervene and negotiate when I have to negotiate. Before entering the Temporary Director-General, it was also a matter that had been raised last time on the amendment to the EEEE elections, which did not come at night and for which everyone had been informed, but by mistake not you. And that's something you know. But anyway, we tried to resolve a matter. There is a given conflict with FIFA and UEFA regarding the electoral system. So let's go now to the point. The Interim Management Committee was a result not only of the known pathogens of FIFA and UEFA and of the system leading to the judiciary halls and intervention. It was the result of the Greek state that started the process and raised the issue with international organisations. Why has FIFA and UEFA never intervened before? The problem was not yesterday, and it was not yesterday, but it has been going on for decades. There were legislative interventions that had been taken, and others were kept and others were not, and they were clearly in conflict with the international federations too. They became the last decade in a row and then they were constantly taken back. Also, there was opacity. FIFA and UEFA didn't do anything. This government and my predecessor were the ones who set the agenda and proceeded to the appointment of the Temporary Executive Committee, whether we like it or not. Because, Mrs Karamanlis, let's see what we had. We failed an Agency which, from 2004 to 2016, had EUR 300,000 000, and now the auditors find a deficit of EUR 15 000 000. Where'd that money go? In fact, one euro has not fallen in local associations, unions and infrastructures. Not a single "5×5" field was made by the Federation. Even its own facilities were made with FIFA and UEFA money. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] Mrs. Christodoulou, I'll be done in a little while. But let us see where we are today. The proceedings of the Temporary Director-General have been advanced, the original control regulation has been completed and, as I have been informed, the Rules of Conduct have been completed. Also, FIFA and UEFA people in cooperation with the temporary management committee have found unheard of legal things that were in place in the country. They come and legalize initiatives taken here by the government by bringing regular judges to the courts of the Federation. Not only do they accept the legal framework that came into force, but they also ask for its extension and renewal of the terms of the ordinary judges. With the placement of regular judges, we will also have a normalization in the award of sport justice. At the same time, unheard of things are not being removed, such as the one-year limitation of offences. That's not true anywhere. It is even more provocative than the law on the responsibility of ministers or the one-year limitation. The previous administration brought it into the basket of unpurpose all these cases of tens of millions of euros, which today come to light. Is it just the ‘Travel Plan’, the ‘Health Card’ that has taken the path of justice? And how much more DELOITTE finds, not the temporary administration. The "DELOITTE" entered, to make a formal check and are currently actually in panic from the numbers, the elements and the skeletons in the wardrobes of the Football Federation. With regard to my statements on arbitration and on the electoral system, I would like to say that, obviously, the electoral system is a point of friction, because, in one view, it interferes with the self-employed. What I said in the interview was that the electoral system is a technical issue. For us, as a state, it is key, firstly, the expansion of the electoral base and, secondly, the greater involvement of professional sport within the electorate, with a clear and large majority of the amateur part of sport. As far as arbitration is concerned, I would like to say that the matter of professional arbitration does not know whether it is a casus belli, but it applies to Great Britain. So it cannot be casus belli in some countries and partly not in other countries. It is a question of the structures that exist and of the Federation's embrace with the CED. Evidently, when the CCT is the substance itself, when the CSU exercises not suffocating control, but suffocating pressure and determines the CSM, we will obviously live what we have experienced or suspected. So there must be a clear framework, so that there are no shadows. I'm telling you again that I want the tons low. Not to take a position on what exists, what is not there, what was there, what was not there, because we have to move forward. However, we must ask for a model. We have an opinion, but the model will suggest it and will discuss it with the Federation, FIFA and UEFA. It's not the government's job to demand a model. That's what we agree. However, he may judge, speak, and when we come to the issue of elections, there we are discussing everything. But these specific rules must have been put in place.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u72	Complete, Mr Vasiliadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u73	We all know what the trouble is, Mrs Karamanlis. Let's not hide. We therefore expect to see from FIFA and UEFA, which are the competent international bodies, the relevant international organisations, their proposals, to see how they will end up and what decisions the Federation institutions will make and then, if necessary, the state will intervene and intervene whenever there are opaque procedures. For the rest, I'll answer my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u74	It is important to develop the questions that are written. Because you fill in more, the Minister adds, so we don't do that, as you can see. Mrs Karamanlis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u75	Madam President, I have asked the questions several times and I have not received any answers. So I put them all together, so they could answer. Thank you. You wiser didn't make us, Mr. Undersecretary. In relation to arbitration, on the one hand, you say that you do not intervene, on the other, you intervene. I would like you to explain to me what your view is and how far you will arrive and whether you will intervene with UEFA and FIFA on the matter of arbitration. Also, Mr. Koutsoumis said: “There are misinterpretations about our work. In 2016, there were cases justifying intervention. We didn't exercise the right. The Arbitration Decision considered FIFA’s intervention’. In other words, whatever letters your predecessor sent, they had nothing to do with the issue that UEFA and FIFA put on the committee responsible. In addition, Mr Koutsoskoumis has said that the temporary management committee is an anomaly, and he needs the quickest to finish with a democratic election. We know - as far as we can tell, no one can know, we are not in the ETUC and in the federations - that the ETUC's finances were a mess, we are listening to scandals. We're in favour of clearance, obviously. And as Mr Koutsoskoumis quite rightly said about felony and criminal offences, the law is above the statute. The statutes, however, are all about self-government, and when half of the EBRD's electoral system, which comes in an amendment, the Kontonis Act collapses, you cannot put it on the table as a question of discussion, if, when it comes to be. Either something applies to both sides of the election or it does not apply to anyone. You have also not answered many of the issues. Let me begin by pointing out that the Interim Management Committee is appointed by the UEFA itself, and there are instruments and choices of your Government, which also take out real amounts. That's why I want you to tell us whether it will be over by 31 December if you have time to put football in normality and have elections. As soon as 1 February, they decided to set up a legal committee to draw up changes to the statute. Does it make sense, Mr Vassiliou, that it takes so many months to set up this committee, four months and just now at the beginning of February? So an elected NCA administration how much longer would it be delayed in harmonising the statutes? There are less than four months left, we all know it for the completion of this committee's term of office. When will legislative changes be proposed? When are you gonna process them? When are you bringing them to the House? I want you to tell us, because it sounds different, that this story will be extended. At least you know that. You cannot know the time you need for legislative changes. There is no possibility of an exception being requested from the NRA from what the sports law provides for elections to sports federations, and what the amendment brings is a precursor and precedent for what will follow. Let me just remind you of what you said as SYRIZA in your sport program: With regard to the self-employed, you said: 'National and European law prevails over the rules of international sports federations'. I should also like to point out that your predecessor has brought you a provision to Law No.4326/2015, Article 15, according to which the statute of the NCA must be in line with the Constitution and the existing legislation. Will you legislate tomorrow once more against your predecessor? Because I don't see you too willing to defend this work. The whole fan world day after day realizes that those who celebrated that radically changed the situation in the operation of Greek football eventually managed a hole in the water. I want you to bring in an integrated proposal on the federations' electoral system, which will clearly define the limits of the self-government and football. I also want to tell you about this infamous sport law that goes and all announcements you are doing, but in the meantime, you are enacting fragments permanently for football and all the issues that burn the sports community. Lower the ball. When you are ready - not personally, because the large share of your predecessor bears it, you are new - and a few words and fine words.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u76	Mr Vasiliade, you have the floor. Stay in time, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u77	I will try, Madam President. I see you have the gospel of Mr. Koutsoumi's words.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u78	We do not rule, you rule.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u79	Clearly. So with regard to sport law, I will answer the issue of 'rules against violence'. The initiatives taken were in difficult circumstances and were necessary for the period during which they took place. So, in the new sporting law, which was, as you know, in consultation until 9 December and had a very rich comment, because the consultation must not simply take place for the eyes of the world, we have taken, we process the whole comment and purpose is within March and in any case before Easter has submitted the sporting law, incorporating correct observations, not incorporating other justified ones, and starting again a debate with the relevant bodies.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u80	What about the PNDs in it? What about the feds?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u81	Clearly. The whole of sport law, taking into account the comment that has been made. That is why the consultation took place.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u82	Because in consultation there was a paragraph that said...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u83	Mrs Karamanlis, that's enough! You have said all your question! There won't be any dialogue!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u84	Obviously, because we are in a debate with the international organisations on the issue of the OSH and soccer issue, with whom we will end up with something. It is a given thing and, obviously, there will also be cooperation with the ETUC. And it is assumed that if the state were not to move, whether we want it or not, FIFA and UEFA would not have intervened, as intervened back in 2006, and then there was a risk of grexit, although it was done for some hours and with the Prime Minister's intervention, but, unfortunately, to resolve the issue another legal monstrous issue. From there on on about the temporary commander's term right now and on the basis of the mandate they have from FIFA is until 31 May. The aim and purpose of the project is until 31 May and all the interventions to be made have been completed. The statutes are now being written. His changes are over. As I have said, the basic regulations and the disciplinary and operating regulations have been over and from there, and I think that through the anomaly, as I have said, we are trying to get back to the regularity, the regularity that the previous administrations have often failed to ensure, but many times, because it was this context that left all these points.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u85	You're not answering.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u86	Let me give you a reply. What can I say? I'm not going to legislate on arbitration or I'm not going to answer...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u87	Mr. Vasiliade, we won't have a dialogue. Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u88	But he didn't say anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u89	There is a debate here with the international organisations, with the bodies of federation, with the bodies of football and from there on, if the state sees the situation regained, if it sees the corruption vulture again, that's where we intervene.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u90	The ball on the stands.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u91	It's not a ball at all on the platform. The ball on the platform was the special legislative initiatives to increase the teams. When the teams fell in our cities, to reduce the teams, when they were attracting us, to increase the wages, to have a payroll at the moment in the U.S., which has been excluded from the single payroll of the class...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u92	My questions are other.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u93	Why are you talking about the temporary commander's pay, but no one has spoken for so many years about the wage bill of 300 million for the decade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u94	You're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u95	Let us not now make the honorers with an average salary of 5,000 euros in the UAE!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u96	My questions are other. I didn't get any answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u97	What are your questions, Mr. Karamanlis? We still haven't entered the single payroll.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u98	We still have a lot of questions in programming, don't monopolize the time. Finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u99	From there, then, the hole in the water.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u100	Why do you leave him...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u101	Mr. Nicolopoulos, please! I'm doing the job here.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u102	...is arbitration, which is not the big problem, when the rules have been put in place, is that FIFA and UEFA are currently facing the problem of the country in collaboration with the federation and with the Greek Government, so that we can go to normality and no longer turn our eyes or support any barricades through party industries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u103	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, twenty students and students and two teachers - their attendants from the 2nd Tochiceio Municipal School of Eklis. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We continue with the sixth question under number 344/16-1-2017 in the second question of the new Republic of Athens, Mr. Catherine Papakostas - Ironropoulou, to the Minister of Health, concerning the discontent of citizens with EEAS and public health care. The current question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Health, Mr Paulakis. Mrs Papakostas, on this absolutely general subject, to see what you'll say in two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u104	Thank you very much, Madam President. Allow me only to take a little of my time with regard to Prime Minister's time and to try to make a great deal of money, of the New Democracy, on the issues of corruption. I have this statement, as a Member of this historical party: The New Democracy, Madam President, and colleagues, is a party of principles which has firmly established democracy in the country with strong foundations. The New Democracy had and has a personalities and a political reserve in its DNA policy the principles and values of Constantine Karamanlis, Constantine Chatsos, Evangelos Averov, and in any case, transparency is a crown in the worthy code of the New Democracy. I say this because the Prime Minister, unfortunately, tried to reproach the New Democracy for the conduct that might exist in the state by members of each side in governance. No, that's political unfair! And I have to say that the governments, according to Aristotle, do not blemish, attempt to make transparency against their political opponents, because in this case, as Aristotle says, the empathy of those who go up to power brings destruction. That is why, because we are legal, Madam President, I tell you that the law is reasonable without passion. The institutions are required to do the work in the state, namely, for the award of phenomena, justice and for the registration of corruption and not for the governments concerned. For the question you said it was very general, it is very specific, Madam President. Trust me. I, too, wanted to ask from January 16 - today how much we have, see we are in February - on the basis of an investigation, the political leadership of the Ministry of Health, as it has shared its responsibilities - this is not my point, it is a matter of the Prime Minister - that is: The views of the Ministry's political leadership through the services of the Ministry, through the Ministry's Agency responsible for controlling the investigation, which says that the quality of the services provided to the most heavily taxed citizens, and even to percentages that are unprecedented, are identified with this investigation? Have they told the Ministry of Health's political leadership that? Citizens pay heavy taxes, and today they pay more heavy taxes to get quality services. Do the services of the Ministry of Health identify with this perception and compare the research data with the official information of the Ministry of Health? Are the deficiencies identified in both specialities and service provision identified by the Ministry of Health's findings? Does the Ministry of Health have the mandate to upgrade the services to be provided through the structures of the CEDEFOP, so that more citizens, such as the Constitution and the law, are addressed, as is the case with the external hospitals? I would like to make another point here. The New Democracy, Madam President - and I am closing with it in my protology - has had a Doxiadis, which is the first after the post-Civilisation, who tried to install what we call a National Health System. Let the Prime Minister not tell us why he's wronging us that we're getting cut for health. We are cutting ourselves off for anything that concerns the greatest good in a society, in a democracy that is health and which, as I said before, pays the burden on the taxpayer, and that is why I ask him.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u105	Mr Paul Paulakis, Deputy Minister for Health, has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u106	Thank you, Madam President. The same question I had with you, Madam President. Mrs Papakostas welcome to planet Earth and Greece! This investigation that you invoke does not cut any glaukas in Athens. I do not know if you have in mind what happened after your catastrophic passage and some of the ministers - who were here and were causing and killing, and when they heard what the Prime Minister said - in the former, the first memorandum of five years from the body of primary care. Do you not know, Mrs Papakostas, and as an old parliamentarian, that in 2013 Mr. Georgiadis, the Vice President of your party, kicked out on one night and two and a half thousands of people from primary care? And you're asking me here that he's dissatisfied with the world, because 50% visits a private doctor, 30% outpatient hospitals and just 18% seek care in the structures of the EDY? You don't know that? You wanted the investigation to see it? When, say, there were two hundred structures and sixty, what should people do there? And you're the ones who've ruined us for bringing them up for a year and a half. If you have not been informed, then, I would like to inform you that over a year and a half many doctors have been appointed, whether permanent or in any other employment relationship, both through CEDEFOP and even with a service report, where necessary, in order to cover and start running structures of the CEDEFOP that you have destroyed in previous years. Secondly, I would like to give you a few examples. For example, some time ago - and if the media did not say so - the unit of the PEDY in the House of Navy was inaugurated in Piraeus with fifty doctors, with many specialties, which sees a thousand people every day. He saved 540,000 euros only from the rents of three structures that you left them empty, skeletons. And daily more and more people trust this structure as primary care. I should like to inform you, if you have not seen it, that we have made a huge adjustment of the money from the European Social Fund and EUR 140 million, so that there will actually be primary care in our country with local health units in sixty-five urban areas with two hundred and fifty structures covering 2,300,000 urban people. These flares and the masterpieces you said before, they sound nice, but you know, you don't do any of that. And you didn't fall out of the sky. You ruled in the past few years. Also, in the two thousand posts of the permanent doctors proclaimed this year, about three hundred and four hundred will be directed to the ETA units you have dissolved so that a world can come back from those you've persecuted. The plan for the primary school I mentioned earlier includes three thousand people, starting to grow from May onwards throughout the country. Because previous governments have announced nineteen times the creation of primary care. But you never created it, because you had a conscious choice with your policy to push the world towards the private sector. I'll say a word about what you mentioned with the EEA doctors' contracts. The contracts of ECY doctors currently in existence are the five and a half thousand inherited by ECY from the contractors of the previous funds. It was created in one night and still doesn't have an organization. We're the ones who built the organization now. Of course, along with the positions that will be created by local health units, it will also be the design for how many doctors the EEA will become. And in the plans we have, more will happen and in so far as a world is absorbed by the public structures that are being created, it will reduce the need for EOPY to have all the doctors involved later. And it must have them today to cover a large part of the population throughout the territory. These in the first place, trying to figure out exactly what you meant by the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u107	Mrs Papakostas has the floor for her dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u108	Madam President, the abundance of the speech of the incumbent minister responsible for welcoming planet Earth is obviously at the edge of his speech by gladiators who have chosen privileged to do with other colleagues in my view. On the substance of health policy, however, I would ask that it should be on the substance of the matter and Parliament itself to operate ethically and as it should be, because I am taking him out of his water. So I want to tell you this. You said there was supposedly a disaster and the doctors left. I'll tell you the exact facts. Because you need to learn to speak accurately. I have never been accused of being inaccurate or unfair, or of aiming politically at my own level. But I'm waiting for answers. That's my role. Because the citizen - I repeat - who pays heavy taxes on your days, heavier than any other previous government period, has at least demanded that you not say much, but do more. For Thucydides said to "Epitafio", "We see their words and hear their works." I'm explaining: You said the doctors left. What you're saying was about IKA's doctors and not his doctors. In 2014 two and a half thousand were re-entered in the context of primary health care, and the rest of them did contracts. This is to restore a candy, which doesn't sell to the people they know. To those who are irrelevant, you can say it. I'm not wrong with you. After they get caught, you're right. You won't tell me. The second thing I want to say is that the citizens cannot be asked and revealed by the investigation - and I asked you - that 50% goes to a private doctor. And he pays taxes and pays a private doctor. You have already said here that we are turning or trying to turn citizens into private health. You turn them on, since 50% and pay the heavy taxes and is addressed to a private doctor because you do not give him the opportunity, with your political inability, to have a public doctor who will serve him. And I explain, Madam President: How can you say that we do not want primary health care while for two years - how many reshapings has the Prime Minister made? - there have been repeated, successive political leaderships from the Ministry of Health and not even one has been serious about the implementation of primary health care, which we gave you ready and call on you to implement. After two years, there is no primary health care in the country and that is the task of your own governments. You bring into the holiday arrangements for Special Education, which in her philosophy is correct. We had her ready. No one is talking about the fact that there should be no closed budget, that there should be no housekeeping for spending, that there should be no party. Nobody's talking about it. We agree on that. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, Madam President. In what we disagree and disagree personally, it is that you cannot in the context of a closed budget do not prioritise. You cannot throw away Special Education, where there is no public structure in the country. Unfortunately, two years you haven't done anything about it. We prepared you, at the Ministry, the Special Education Act - you found it ready - we prepared you for the minimum guaranteed income and served it and you are unable to organise it and offer it to the taxpayers who are taxed. You are due, Minister, as a whole, to the political leadership, to consult with the parents, the providers and the Ministry, so that you can provide a solution. Because I tell you one thing: you have absolutely no right - no matter how you see it, whatever viewpoint you may have - to deprive the treatments of children who have the right to receive them from the EEAS. And you can't put your parents in adventures, because you're interested in other things and because you like to talk about strong funding while you're curtailing, you're claw backing, you're cutting the EPPY. What strong funding? Tell me about it! You should come here one day and answer the substance and get in touch with it. And I would ask you to stop these lines and the Ping-Pong you're with other colleagues, who don't concern me, they never concern me and they're not my style. I say to you that what you are doing - to prove it to you - with the Scientific Committee it is right. But what does it prove? What I said to you before, namely, that you are doing something right in retrospect after you have been wrong. What was your mistake? That then, when you had to correct the matter, you didn't do it. You are now coming now - and I am sure the Scientific Committee will be able to cover the deficit and the gap after the mistake has been made. In some it cost, some families have created anguish and they don't sleep about how their children will dawn for Special Education, the therapists, the wheelchairs, for a series of services. It costs some people money and time. It obviously does not cost you, so you like to take advantage of other kinds of battles, but there is nothing to offer the families who say, 'I pay my taxes and I do not get services from the National Health System'. And today you will not come to tell us here, “We do not rule...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u109	Come on, Mrs. Papakostas, you've done a lot of time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u110	I'm done, Madam President. You will not say that 'We do not rule', Mr Polakis. If I was in 2014 when I was at the Ministry, I felt I wasn't making the decisions, I would have resigned. Resign if you do not rule or tell us what is the invisible hand, which in any case leads you to do such uncertainties, which cost the highest health cost. That's why you should talk to us. I think you have the realms, because Crete is an area of the country I love very much, and I respect the women of the Cretan people very much, because they are in the genuine Cretan tradition. But that's the kind of thing in the party. Here the Greek people are not partying, Mr Polakis, but weeping and you are due to bend on these issues. And that's what I ask you to do.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u111	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u112	I understand the need for Mrs Papakostas to confirm the position of her party president on the Deputy Health Officer and how something we need to show her.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u113	In person again?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u114	As far as Special Education is concerned, I will answer the question that will be asked later. The heartfelt tears in relation to some things are as hypocritical, Ms. Papakostas as it doesn't fit. And you're lying. You drive away - and don't hide that and don't tell me that you're talking with evidence, because if one of you talks with evidence, it's me - on one night and a half of two and a thousand doctors outside the IKA's medical system. Some of them had a contract with EOPY. Today, the vast majority of the conventions are coming from UCLAF doctors involved. Don't lie. This thing has happened. Now, for the rest, what can I say? I think I've responded to the lead. As far as the Special Education is concerned, I will give a detailed answer to Mr Nicolopoulou, who has specifically asked on this matter, because you have asked here an abstract question, namely an investigation which is supposed to document what is happening today after the Memorandum of Disaster, which you have done in the country in previous years. Welcome to planet Earth, Ms. Papakosta! And I say this, why in the 1990s, in the 2000s, when it comes to primary school, the majority of the citizens where it was going? Where'd she go, Mrs. Papakosta? And SYRIZA didn't rule then. In fact, then, there were IKA doctors with more doctors than they did today. Of the five thousand, however, you left two and a half thousand. So, most people will go out. Who did this? You did it! And you come here now, as if you were born of virginity and said, "Oh, my God, what does the study say?" You made it, Mrs. Papakosta. You are also personally responsible, because you have also been in a position of responsibility. Can you tell me one thing I can remember you through the Department of Health, why don't I have something?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u115	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u116	Because for some ministers before we can remember two, three positive things that they did. Do we have anything to remember from you? Pass and destroy. I have nothing more to answer. I think we're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u117	Madam President, I ask for the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u118	Mrs. Papacosta, you've taken twice as much time. Now in this process there are no personal things.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u119	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u120	There are no personal questions, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u121	Madam President, listen. This is Parliament...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u122	Parliament is, it is considered a plenary, but now we have parliamentary scrutiny.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u123	That's right. Parliamentary control cannot allow any Minister, who has absolutely nothing to answer anything, to unleash...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u124	If you're asking the essence, I'll answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u125	Madam President, I'm just saying to the Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u126	Mrs Papakostas, you have taken the floor without giving it to you. He's got a point of view. Political criticism. Whatever he wants...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u127	So I answer what he asked me as far as I was concerned. He asked me what he had to remember...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u128	But there's no dialogue procedure at this stage. It's a question, he answered, it's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u129	No, Madam President. He asked me what he had to remember. It has to remember a hundred and seventy - two ministerial decisions mine, which produce work.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u130	At this stage let go, Mrs. Papakosta. Don't embarrass me now and we're yelling. It doesn't make any sense. Ladies and gentlemen, MP Rhodope of the Democratic Integration Mr Ilhan Ahmet is requesting permission from a short-day absence abroad from 10 February 2017 to 12 February 2017 for exceptional personal reasons. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u131	The House therefore approved the requested permission. I would also like to say some of the questions that will not be discussed. The eighth under number 420/31-1-2017, a topical question from the MP Magnesia of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Panagiotis Eliopoulos to the Minister of Finance, on ‘due public debts to private individuals’, will not be discussed due to the absence of the Deputy Minister abroad, Mr. Nikolaos Huliarakis. Also, the following questions will not be discussed as a result of an impediment to the relevant ministers and will be redefined for discussion: The third, with number 447/6-2-2017, is the first question of the Athens MP, Mr. Spyridonos-Adonidos Georgiadis, concerning the "meeting of the Prime Minister with representatives of the Rothschild Investment Bank". The fifth, under number 345/16-1-2017, topical question of the second question of the Athens MP, Mr Spyridonos-Adonidos Georgiadis, to the Minister of Finance, concerning the mismanagement of the Greek Defence Systems (ESA). Also, the fourth question under number 452/6-2-2017, first question by the Member of the People's Association - Golden Dawn, Ilias Kashiri to the Minister of Finance, concerning the "Chipras - Rothschild Investment Bank and the involvement of the Rothschild family in the economic life of Greece". The ninth under number 414/30-1-2017 topical question of the second question of the MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Finance, on the information about the stage of the process of implementing the investment at the former airport of Greece. The fourteenth under number 409/30-1-2017 topical question by MP II Athens of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Finance on the sale of the "National Insurance". Sixteenth, with number 400/27-1-2017, a topical question from the Z Vice-President of the Parliament and MP of Athens, Potamios Spyridon Lykoudi, to the Minister of Finance, concerning unexploded properties for which the public pays high rents. The second one under number 453/7-2-2017 is the first-round question of the Parliamentary Corfu coalition of the Radical Left, Mr. Fotinis Vakis, to the Minister of Tourism, on public tourism education in Corfu. After the Minister's reply, Mr. Polakis, I will read the rest of you so that we will not be late. The twelfth will now be discussed under number 427/31-1-2017, a topical question by the Member of the Lesvos Parliamentary Party of Greece Mr. Stavros Tassos to the Minister of Health regarding the inclusion of the Oncology - Haematological Unit of Daily Hospital in the Organization of the Mytilini Hospital. Mr. Tassos, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u132	Excuse me, Madam President, will the other questions be read?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u133	I will address them after the question has been answered. Mr. Tassos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u134	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, the Oncology - Haematological Unit of the Mitilini Hospital, which has been operating in recent years, does not even exist in the hospital body. It's a unit that accepts a huge volume of patients from the island. In 2015 he had about three thousand imports for chemo therapy. In 2016 they increased to three thousand five hundred fifty - about 20% increase - and they also have three thousand six hundred ninety prescriptions. In addition, there are emergencies - about twenty - which are dealt with daily. And in these patients, another three thousand are added, with blood problems and diseases. This unit works only thanks to the self-sacrificing and self-sacrificing medical and nursing staff. For all of these patients, there is only one doctor of oncologist, a doctor of haematologists, and four nurses who are doing the dissolution of chemotherapeutic drugs. By the end of December 2016 there was another doctor, with a block, who, of course, got fired, left and found another job. Also, this unit is housed in an inappropriate space, without windows for light and air renewal, with a roof that drips, when it rains, and there is no provision for whether and when it will be relocated, although at the Hospital of Mytilini it has become a new unit and there are new wings. But we still do not know whether and when it will be transferred to these new wings. Also, another very serious problem patients have is their transfer when they are subject to chemo. As the chemos are known, they are made at the Oncology Unit of the hospital, which is located in the center of Mytilini, and therefore patients from the other regions of the island are moved there by taxi - it is no different - and costs are unbearable for them and their families. So, Minister, what measures will you take to ensure that the unit joins the hospital, that the necessary medical and nursing staff are provided for their uninterrupted operation, that it is immediately relocated to a place suitable for patients and their families not to pay compulsory travels elsewhere?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u135	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u136	Mr. Tassos, open doors are squeezing and I'm going to say specific things. Indeed, we haven't found any organism in his right place. We have barely received a situation in which, on one night again, we said what exists, there is what is not there, which is being abolished. We have recently restored the possibility of organisations coming out of either the health regions or the hospitals - because you know, and the health regions do not have an organization - it is the work that we have said - by means of joint ministerial decisions and not by a presidential decree. And all the administrations of the hospitals in the country have been given a clear mandate - and we are starting with the health regions - but too many hospitals where there are agreed organisations, both with the workers' associations and with the agreement of the administrations, the scientific committees, etc. - and wherever we can also make changes up - these should come to the Ministry quickly, pass through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, so that the procedures for the adoption of joint ministerial decisions can proceed. The hospital’s management board and the Second Health District have consented to an amendment to the organization so that the unit currently operating under the Pathological Clinic may join the hospital body. We know the movement very well and we know very well the special weight of this unit and the needs it meets on your island. We've already announced the vacancy of the haematologist. Other positions will be set up in the Agency, i.e. another post of curator of the volume and another post of curator of the haematologist will be added. We have declared subsidiary positions and are reopened with the service document. And from what I'm being informed, the private person who will sign such a contract has been found to help serve but the one who ended the contract has left. We have the elements of the movement in both the context and the general organisation and reorganisation of the health regions, the Hospital of Mytilini has a more central role, because as you know, your island is the next one to develop on the basis of the aerospaces of the EKAB, as we did in Syros. This means that the hospital must also be strengthened with specialties - for example, we have also called for two positions of neurosurgeons beyond what you have - precisely so that it can deal with a number of incidents that will come there from adjacent islands, as it will be the third base of EKA Aerospace in the Aegean Sea. We have also strengthened the hospital and in terms of the state budget. This year, for the first time in his history, he took 7,000,000 real money, financing from the EEA. We have covered some wounds with the workers - unpaid overtime and on-calls in 2014 - with the legislation that has recently been tabled in the House. One of the hospitals that had the problem was yours. With regard to the problem of building, there is a project in progress. The administrative receipt has been completed and from what the hospital administration has informed me, they have agreed with the Oncological Patients Association to what place the Oncological Clinic will be transferred, which is the conditions that now exist are not the best. I think it is an option to join the organization. It will be strengthened with the necessary staff. I think there was no problem with the supply of all the medicines these patients needed. You're making a little mistake in evidence. Three thousand is the time move this department has. Clearly, he justifies his existence. I think that whatever goes through our hand and based on the specific things I said, we will. On the question of the free movement of patients, Mr Tassos, this cannot be resolved at the moment. EEAS covers movements in patients who are kidney patients and in some cases may also cover others. However, the question of free movement of patients for their access to Health Units will be resolved at a more advanced stage of social transformation.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u137	Here, Mr Tassos, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u138	Minister, even though you said there would be some recruitment, you haven't answered what will be done right now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u139	I told you that one of them is with the delivery note and that there is a subsidiary. And there will also be an ancillary haematologist, where there is availability from the Health Region list, it will go immediately. Appropriations are available. And they are together with eight other positions, which are under way and some have been completed, and the position of the haematologist.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u140	When you say eight places, you don't mean eight places on the Oncology.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u141	No, I mean eight permanent doctors' seats since the hospital's prior notice.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u142	Altogether.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u143	One of them is a haematologist.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u144	Yeah, all of it. Let's see.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u145	They're not a few.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u146	As far as the other issues you have said are concerned, I shall start with the issue of movement. But is it possible today, under such conditions as exist in our society, that these costs are not covered? Of course, it is only natural that there are those deficiencies when public health expenditure, i.e. expenditure from the state budget, has decreased from 23 billion in 2009 to 8.4 billion in 2015. For us, taking the prior debate that took place on the issues of corruption and in particular on corruption in health, where the Prime Minister mentioned "NOVARTIS" and CEDEFOP, the biggest health scandal is the ever-degrading health of the Greek people. That's for us the biggest scandal. And I think it's hypocritical to be surprised at the scandals of the pharmaceutical industries. We know how the pharmaceutical industries operate globally. Even crimes and murders are committed only to safeguarding what is of paramount value, to gaining from the merchandise - a medicine, because in this system and the drug is another commodity and, indeed, a commodity that produces inexcusable profits to the pharmaceutical industry. So, as I said, there can be no public and free health policy within this system, because health in this system is a commodity. If, therefore, some steps are to be taken towards alleviating the Greek people as far as possible, we must confront this policy. And, of course, this government has said many times that it is of the utmost value for it to remain in the European Union and, of course, to the capitalist system. There should therefore really be another policy in the field of health so that the health needs of the Greek people can be met.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u147	Mr. Polakis, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u148	Mr Tassos, I think I have answered you on the substance of the question you raised about Mytilini. For the general report you're making, I'll just give you a word. You have a mistake in your analysis. I have said this in the timely question, which you made as a JRC parliamentary group, on the matter of budget expenditure, etc. Look, you have to decide. We cannot say on the one hand that expenditure is cut and on the other hand, that the pharmaceutical industry is gaining. Mr Tasso, I will tell you about the EUR 23 billion in 2009, which is not the state budget, but the sum of the state budget and the money that the insurance funds gave. This is the EUR 23 billion. Inside this thing there were at least EUR 6.5 billion to EUR 7 billion black money. That is what we do not want it to continue. It reached the sum of 9.7 billion with the cuts made. We are currently almost 11 billion people, and we will be a little more and a little more year with the insurance contributions that will come in, which will increase. We know it's not enough. That is currently 5.1% of our GDP. We want and it is our goal to reach 6-6.5% of GDP, which is the European average. But be careful, Mr Tassos, what GDP are we talking about? That's why they cursed us at 174 billion or what we have as a normal country at EUR 220 billion. We're talking about the second one. 6.5% of GDP in a normal country, with growth, with work, which has no one-and-a-half million unemployed, who do not have so many uninsured people, etc. But when we get there, it's obvious that we won't share it in the same way. Even today, in the deep memorial years, the 'NOVARTIS' scandal that is now coming out and starting from a long time ago, what do you think in the memorial years? Is that while there was a horizontal expenditure cut, because it had arrived, Mr Tassos in 2009 at 7.3 billion public spending on the medicine - do you understand that? - and 6.1, the insurance funds - what they say about 5.2, while it's 6.1 - and a further 1.2 billion from the hospitals. I am talking about public spending, not private participation. And when this came down and public spending was 7 billion, it has now reached 2.6 to 2.7 billion. However, even within 2.7 billion, there was the possibility, in the way they invoiced, that a drug had to go to EUR 500, for example, to remain at EUR 1000 to EUR 1200. That's the point. We therefore want another redistribution, which means recruitment of staff, infrastructure integration and integration of primary school. Because, once the EUR 140 million, which we take from the European Social Fund to set up the first level, will have to be taken over by the state, the state budget, the insurance funds. We also need to start restoring the wage losses that a world has accepted over the past few years. And that's where this distribution of 13 to 14 billion has to go. In addition, we want renewal of equipment on some things, etc. And some may be out of this amount. That is the point, and I think we are moving in that direction. Because, you know, there's another thing about the theoretical invoicing of needs, and another thing about this particular, class-target plan of how to build it, in this world, with these social and political forces, with this strife, with this dirt, with this war, which makes at night a lot of things. Have you heard anyone get out these days and say good to the government where the three thousand hundred and seventy go in from the OAED program? Do you remember what mud we had eaten, that it will not be done, that it will be 500 euros, that it will be from permit money, and you will not find them, and what are these OAS programmes? Now they go to hospitals every day! Have you seen any media in the interactive or any channel - I say it as I say and misunderstood - say they are entering hospitals today, hired by these people with a 12-month contract, with full pay, with overtime pay, with full working rights? Does anyone say so? They're calling them from the WTO and they're filming the cockroache half an hour! That's the point. Has anyone said, say, or does it repeat that after the request of the inhabitants of the Cyclades islands, has the time to respond with the Aerospaces of the EKA, at the moment, have costs been reduced, has the transport of patients been speeded up, have we escaped airspaces in Athens? Have you seen any channels make a tribute to this? What did they show? A "shoe" ambulance, which was said to be in Kassos, while it was in Gia, which someone has donated, somewhere, once, and they said "a, look how it is". The fact that ninety ambulances went there didn't show it. That's the point.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u149	Mr. Polakis, you've been over time too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u150	I'm answering to the general. And as I have answered many times in the past - it is not about you, Mr Tassos - we will continue the course of hope and they will continue the opposition of the cockroach!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u151	Thank you. At this point I continue with the questions that will not be answered. There will not be a debate on the fifth under number 451/6-2-2017 in the first cycle of the Athens MP of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdou to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, on parental equality and the conspiracy of children. Also, it will not be discussed, due to the impediment of the Minister for Rural Development and Food, Mr. Gospelos Apostleos, on account of a workload, the first under number 448/6-2-2017 topical question of the second cycle of the Member of the Drama of the New Democracy Mr. Dimitrios Kyriazides to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on compensation for potato growers of the Lectury of Lower Neurokoti in the Law of Drama.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u152	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u153	What do you want, Mr. Lady?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u154	Madam President, because I know your sensitivity, you will allow me to note something. It's the third year I'm trying to get an answer from the Minister for Rural Development for an area...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u155	For the same potatoes or for different?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u156	Same thing. It's the third year. You know what is happening in the Lower Neuroscope, what the weather is, which this year is even more difficult. I will not talk about the continuity of this year's crops and livestock. I will speak to you about a fact which I have been trying to answer for three years.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u157	It is not just your question postponed. He won't answer three questions. I think we understand the workload because of the mobilisation of farmers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u158	Let go. That's not it. Madam President, the President-in-Office and the President of Parliament have previously called us because we are not asking questions to the Prime Minister, who may have come to answer. The ministers don't come here, now you tell me...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u159	All right, they're coming. We're making calls. They're trying.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u160	I'm saying it's the third year. And if you want to help you, let me tell you that on 25 November I asked a question, I might also get an answer. Mr. Apostle did not agree to answer me. That's why I was forced to do the timeline in the hope of coming. Why am I saying that? Because we're entering the third growing season, they've got because of a fungus spotted in the Lefkanopedio...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u161	Yes, but I can't tell you anything right now, Mr. Cryazides. So all you say is worthless to us who are here.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u162	You must ‘ pull their ears’. Not to laugh at them, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u163	Listen to me, please. I want to tell you that the growers of the Lecanopod are desperate. Humanity must be at some point from all of us. Why am I saying it? You know what area we're talking about, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u164	Yes, but what can I do, Mr. Cryazides?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u165	Let me tell you to understand it. But you don't want to understand it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u166	I understand your interest. I understand the minister's workload as a result of the mobilizations.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u167	No, you don't. We're talking about survival.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u168	Yeah, okay, but what should we do now? What can I do as President-in-Office? You understand that there is no object.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u169	Listen, two and a half thousand acres have been quarantined. There are no big farmers, landowners...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u170	It'll be redefined. Mr. Cryazides, you can't go on right now. We've got to finish the meeting at 13:00 and we're still not done.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u171	Good. So I say that the lot of these farmers is certain. It's 20 acres. The fields of many of these farmers are just at this point and they are unable for the third year to cultivate, without any state compensation. What did the Minister say in 2015? That there will now be an interest in those who have not been there for three years.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u172	No, I can't hear any more, Mr. Cryazides. I gave you five minutes, you said your complaints. But there's nothing I can do.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u173	But you must intervene.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u174	Yeah. The Conference of Presidents calls on all Ministers to reply. For those who can't do what?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u175	Your government sees it exactly. What can I say?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u176	The tenth under number 415/31-1-2017 a topical question, which is older than yours, the MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Kingdom Kegeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the deferral of the notices of the Rural Development Programme will not be discussed. Also, the eleventh question under number 348/16-1-2017 - that is, one and a half months before your own, but no one came to complain - of the MP Argolida of the PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Manatis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the resumption of the extension of the management plan for vintzotras that directly jeopardises the viability of the Greek seas will not be discussed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u177	Are you saying it to us, Madam President?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u178	No, it's not "we're telling you", Mr. Cryazides. I don't know, I can't know the history. I see you're not the only one, there are other Members who have asked questions. Have an understanding too. We're continuing with the last question. It is the 17th seventh under number 390/24-1-2017 topical question by the Independent MEP, Achaias, Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, to the Minister of Health, on the reduction of expenditure in special education for "therapy". Mr. Nicolopoulos, you have two minutes to suggest your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u179	Madam President, in today's sitting, Mr. Theodorakis heard an unscrupulous complaint about Mr. Kammenos, with whom I worked - as you know about the Christian Democratic Party - in the last elections and I feel the need, before I put my questions to Mr. Paulakis, to say to the House, to you and to those who are following us, that while waiting patiently for my turn, I saw in twitter a post by Mr. Kammenos, which I read: 'After he turned Potami into a dredge, carrying backs of the interlocutory, he has the nerve to talk to those who pay taxes, we declare income from clean sources and we are much poorer than politics'. Madam President, in conclusion, I would like to tell you that I have known Mr Kammenos since the years of Youth of New Democracy...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u180	You're wasting your time, but the question. I'm not giving you another one.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u181	I hope you'll give me as much time as you've given the others.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u182	No, I'm leaving at 13:00.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u183	Another president will be coming. What can we do? We have been here since this morning, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u184	There's no one else.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u185	It's okay, Madam President, we'll stay a little longer.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u186	But we've been doing two hours for five questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u187	You should have said that before, not to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u188	I did.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u189	You left 10 minutes ago out of the Rules of Procedure to speak. Does it bother you because I'm talking about Mr. Kammenos?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u190	Please, the tone of your voice is lower, because I can interrupt you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u191	So don't interrupt me, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u192	Come on, let's get it done.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u193	So Mr. Kammenos, whom I've known since the years of our youth, is leaving...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u194	What do we care about now?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u195	They don't care about you, they care about the Greek people. Please don't interrupt me. I won't allow you! So Mr Kammenos leaves poorer than politics. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Madam President, Minister, we will not get bored with what may happen and do. We're here to put pressure on you to get more pressure, pressure to go to that normality you said. The MEGA workers may not be paid, but you do not confiscate Mr Bobola's accounts, because he does not pay the employers'-insurance contributions. They cannot write and disprove that Mr Martinis - the former President of the Red Cross, who is now on the Corydal - gave, he says, a jury of statements and named the former ministers of health. He told them by their name. For a Minister of Health he said his mother - in - law was paid over there with a slow payroll. That cannot be said and you can do nothing. Turn the money back - that's what people want - from the vaccines buried there by another Minister of Health. A Sunday newspaper wrote for 200 million and had its picture. He was talking about the NOVARTIS scandal and no one came out of it, nor did Mr Mitsotakis. On the subject of the question, Minister, and Katerina, my colleague, and many others have experienced and experienced the problem of these blessings, which we had in our homes, with people with disabilities. The question therefore does not need any particular explanations or tons of melodramatic tone. But look. You know he has raised very serious concerns and reactions for both parents and professionals. They are in the air and the healing centers, and much more please understand with all the other economics, the psychological difficulty parents have in the middle of the year not know what they will do. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] One may recognize the effort to get the financial burden off the backs of the parents who are trying to happen, but I fear precisely because of the memorandum on special treatment. I say this because just before Mrs Papacosta told you, why do you not give up? I had the misfortune, two days State Secretary for Labour and Social Security, the first meeting of the troika with the Ministers of the Government of Samaras - Venizelos to be in our Ministry with Mr Brutsis, when these indescribable and then said that these cuts should be made today.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u196	Mr. Nicolopoulou, you're shortened. You've reached five minutes!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u197	I don't know if I did well, but I said I couldn't have a child in autism, and I, with my signature, living and knowing the problem, accepting these expenditure reductions. This does not, however, relieve either of us, of reaching this point, where you know the protests, which are sincere and intense. I close, Madam President, by reading two small letters. So he mentions the first child, Mr. Polakis...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u198	Mr. Nicolopoulou, we can't get to six minutes! Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u199	Listen, Madam President. So he mentions a child in a letter to Mr. Polakis: "Mr. Minister, it is not a good thing not to give money, because children cannot do therapies, treatments and physical treatments. That's why you're a bad Minister. Kids need it. If they don't do therapies, they won't be able to talk. If they don't do treatments, they won't be able to catch the spoon, nor the pencil, to concentrate on learning letters and numbers. If they don't do physicotherapeutic treatments, they won't be able to walk and run. I managed to talk, write, who are my friends, taught me to go to the supermarket. I do not want to stop speech therapy and treatment because I am learning new things." I say, Madam President - and I stop with this - the letters of these young children. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, presents for the minutes the abovementioned letters, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] This child may be a friend of your friend, the brother, a government minister, who took it from his father and went to another country and that child - because that country was a normal - going into Maximos, and we all charmed it, because he managed the impossible that the state should do all these children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u200	Minister, at least help you in your answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u201	I should like to help, Madam President, but I must not leave any dark points. Listen, Mr. Nicolopoulos. We are the last people who can be accused of social analgesia, when two years ago 1/3 of the country's cancer patients were looking for their drugs in social drugs - that is not what we are doing today - when two and a half million uninsured fellow citizens were out of access to public health services and had to, if they chose to go, which most people did not go to, sign a declaration that they were in debt and will go to tax. That abolition was made by us. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the House is occupied by Mr. SYRIDON LYKOUDES.]] At the same time, however, Mr Nicholas, because we are serving another social contract, we will also be doing a rationalisation of expenditure, because we want to reward real work in a decent manner rather than fictitious work, over-registration or spiritual demand. Explain yourself, so we don't get any misunderstandings. We are operating - and we will be operating for another year and a half - within a number of financial frameworks. We can't leave this until June 2018. But you also recognise that, for the first time, after constant cuts in previous years, the total cost of the EEAS to private health or health-care providers, from EUR 1,402,000,000 agreed by the previous government and, in relation to the previous years, we did so with the last negotiation this year, at EUR 1,55,000, and we do a redistribution within it, Mr Nicolopoulos. In all categories, except for the category of hospitals abroad, a limit is set on spending, because it has to go in. We need to have a picture of what we need and how far we can get. A few years ago, the government put an expense limit on a number of charges on one night. That's when a lot of people didn't talk. Right now, we've done two big sections on EPPY. The first major intersection is that 2016 is the first year that EEAS, the successor to the insurance funds, does not create new debt, because it clears with a real sample check in a large proportion of the submissions, all provided to it by each provider. If it's all right, he pays 100%. If it's not okay, then it makes the cut it has to do. So it does not produce a new debt. What was the debt of the insurance funds to private providers, Mr Nicolopoulos? It was that in IKA old depositors of 100,000 euros, it gave you the 80,000 euros or the 90,000 euros and the other “let us find them”. Never! Do you know that we are now paying from the late 2006 IKA expenditures of 2009, 2010, which is from this mechanism? This year, for the first time, our country's insurance fund has not been producing new debts since the year 2016 and has, of course, a cost limit. We're doing a redistribution. The second big part we are doing is that all EEA providers will have contracts with the insurance agency. It will not be done, as in some categories that had remained outside the contract. One of them was the story of special lawsuits. The parent or patient had to pay for some materials, some things and then go to testify and take them. This is a great relief to all families. Now we're going to make contracts. Now watch something else. By doing the contracts, we have the possibility of doing control, as we do. We are starting to make real control over all the providers, with whom we had previous years, but it was not. And I'm talking about private clinics, artificial kidney units, psychiatric clinics, rehabilitation centers, physico-therapists, etc. We, therefore, appreciated the expenditure, while comparing it and having an image of what is happening, have set a first-time expenditure limit, because it has to be done - and this is how it is to be done - for this category too. I'll give you one example, Mr. Nicholas. It is not possible that the five thousand five hundred doctors in the country, which EEA as contractors, to cover the whole population in Greece, cost us EUR 110 million and the special treatment for a number of thousands of children - I fully respect the problem and say two words afterwards - cost us 105 million euros. Something's going on here now. Don't go crazy. Firstly, I state clearly - to finish it - that no child, who needs to stay out of therapy. Secondly, there will be rationalisation of expenditure, which we are giving for these specific treatments. Look, accounting 15 euros, treatment 1.23 and psychotherapy 2.26 euros. Who's done this for so many years, Mr. Nicholas? We don't know what's going on? Who works for 1,23 euros? Don't go crazy. Therapies are written, there are workspaces paid out of there. Of course, not everyone gets that amount. They're taking from the families, too. Is that not the case? You write it in your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u202	Minister, there's a second one. You're in six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u203	I have to answer that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u204	That's what I'm saying. There's a second one.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u205	Listen to me. We know very well what is going on, because we are from the innermost of the system, we are not planters. And no one can blame us for social analgesia. On the 22nd of the month that happened, it was because then the negotiation ended, they were voted, and we had to go next year in this way. One of the few accusations, which he reacted, was the one that was out of contract so far. You have seen any of the others who had contracted so far, and which has also been redistributed - diagnostic laboratories, clinics, right - left, etc. - to react that we leave a patient who is not cured or who I don't know what? But there will be something here. Mercy! It's clear. Look out, I say it clearly. We set up the committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u206	Minister, I repeat, there is a second. Please! You're in eight minutes. Help out a little bit. There's a dentistry!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u207	I'm done. I'll just say this conversation. We therefore set up a committee after the tension in reaction. We do not think we are wrong in general - and I thank you for staying here, Mrs Papakostas - I do not think we are making a mistake in some amounts in general. However, we have to agree that these children, with these problems, need these treatments that will last for this time. For a great objection was that "if you change the EMS tomorrow, the Provider Regulation, then we will be in the "air"". So to remove any argument, we have set up a committee involving all the representatives of the professionals of special education and the representatives of the parents and university teachers and representatives of the ministry and people who are in the ERC. The problem is that the main argument they said is that "if you unilaterally change the conditions of treatment, we will be in "air". Oh, no. I'll agree with...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u208	Minister, please. You're in the nine minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u209	If this leads - because we can make accounts - by the committee and by its suggestion, which is all in it, that this means that it needs more expenditure, we will give it up. Make sure we give it to you. But be sure, too, it won't make it to 105 that it was before.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u210	Thank you. Mr. Nicolopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u211	Mr President, because many questions have not been asked today, show some tolerance. The previous ones have shown too. You've already done it, and thank you...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u212	Tolerance is given, Mr. Nicolopole, but, you know, when the three minutes are ten. In five minutes all right, seven minutes fine, but ten minutes!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u213	Thank you very much, because you have already done so. Minister, I will of course agree with you on a lot of things. I think you don't need me to agree. You know that this meeting either now or shortly afterward will be attended by most families who have this cross or this blessing inside their home. Now, before I enter this House, a police officer told me 'to tell Mr Polakis that I am giving 40 euros'. And I asked her how distraught she gets. And how many Greeks get a ditch! For one hour it'll give 40 euros! And he doesn't want to give. Do you think he wants to? But for her child, she'll give it all, and her life. Extortion? Determined by being the good therapist? But let us see what the differences are, Minister. This EUR 30 - not the EUR 40 I heard - can be EUR 1.50, can it be EUR 2? Can he?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u214	That's how it is now!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u215	I'm telling how much they're taking them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u216	We're gonna do 15 treatments. And we're going to raise the psychotherapy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u217	You do well to talk about it. To hear what you say, precisely to find a solution, because we all want to find a solution in it. As you said, and Mrs Papakostas' presence here and in her institutional capacity, I imagine that this is perplexing and demonstrating, on this issue, and I am pleased. I heard you set up this committee. But there are many issues and you know them. It won't take time to report it. And I won't make you wiser. I'll show that I know the issues. Guarantee letters. Thirty minutes, you know how...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u218	It's the least. You have the wrong information.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u219	Well done, fix me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u220	That's the least, we put it in order. They want to take it 45 at least. Let's take it. We put it on for the minimum. Because we have complaints that time can be ten minutes and charged. As a minimum downwards, not as a maximum!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u221	But there are problems...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u222	And yet, we have complaints, Ms. Papakosta!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u223	You need to solve this!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u224	That's what we're talking about! As a minimum, not as a maximum!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u225	Minister, you do well to say so, because worrying is that it will create a regime. Mr President, as you can see, a child with autism may take ten, fifteen minutes until he comes to work together.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u226	Until he cooperates. We know!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u227	We are pleased with what you say and have no doubt.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u228	But we have a return complaint, and that's why we put it! For the return, we have a complaint!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u229	Minister, there is no private debate here. You've got a second. Honestly, I mean!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u230	It is very serious and it concerns a lot of people, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u231	But I know, and it's very interesting. And I say it with great respect. However, we must respect the Rules of Procedure of the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u232	You are right, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u233	Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance. You talked about the provocative demand.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u234	Challenging!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u235	The provocative, but also many times challenging. How's it going to happen? I now come from the parents' side. Are the parents on their own signing the referral? The doctor tells him, Mr. President, that he needs so many sessions. What's he gonna do? Can the parent do less? Who's taking this responsibility? Isn't that a phenomenon? Of course, there is! "Why hide it anyway?" as Grandpa Mitsotakis said! Not only should we hide it, but also step on it! If you're in this direction, I think you'll find them again. But there's something you need to do, because otherwise he doesn't say anything. So I'm gonna close up so you have the time to tell us more interesting things. Not to reassure us, but to tell us the truth, what everyone is expecting today from you. So I think that you need to review your economic policy on this whole issue, because of course we need to see how parents can get rid of these costs, particularly in the current circumstances, with today's wages and even worse with today's unemployment. But, at the same time, we should also see all those officials, all those who play this important role. And I imagine that this is something you recognize as well, no matter how much at this time it may seem that the Ministry or EEAO is against them. I imagine you have to say that without them we will not be able to take any step forward for our children. Thank you very much, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u236	Thank you, Mr. Nicholas. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u237	Mr. Nicolopoulou, I've said a lot of things in my first talk. I will dwell on much less in secondaryism, because I think you are aware of the spirit which we possess. I'm not one of the people who trigger social reflexes and turn each other against each other. But I will say one thing: if I don't have a contract, I can't control it. It is possible to deny to the parent who comes and submits documentary and invoicing treatments, after their execution and for a number we know - because I am a doctor! - as do the services know that it's not the real thing and that they meet other needs through this way? Can there be islands in which, within two, three years, the number of people and children entering such programmes has tripled? What happened all of a sudden? We know exactly what's going on! That's why I repeat the gentleman. We set up the committee to be clean. We set up the committee...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u238	You have to punish them!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u239	But listen to me! To punish it, Mr. Nicolopoulos, I have to have an affair with him. The relationship is the contract! How else can I punish him when the parent submits to me - and not the one doing the act - a number of executed transactions with an invoice after which it is done? What can I tell the parent who's given them? Don't I approve of them? Be careful: When a patient enters a private clinic with which I have a contract, I can check if he's there. I have the right to control it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u240	Are you likely to make contracts?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u241	In my opinion, everyone will finally do.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u242	Will they be able?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u243	Maybe in some areas they don't. We'll see how we cover that. But can I tell you one thing? If what you say were true, there are some who have no need, then neither would the large private clinics make contracts with the EEA. But they all do, because they need this funding from the EEA. Because that's also a redistribution. And if you want, there's a payroll and the workers who work there. But the new social contract requires conditions of credibility and dignity. We can't afford to have some more low costs and without control of others. This thing can't be done. We need to get into another phase. I said it very clearly, too. That is why we are making this committee: for everyone to be present. And we'll talk there about the patient charges in particular. And we'll say that this kid with this problem has these needs for so long, long, longer, infinite time. This kid has these needs. This kid has the others. And it must be agreed beforehand. That will therefore produce a result.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u244	Minister, the DRGs..
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u245	Leave the story on the DRGs now. It's another, painful story. A very painful story. There was also the problem created with the CENs here and how they were invoiced. Some CEN are really, some are underestimated and some are overrated to God. So, on this basis, this will produce an economic prediction, Mr Nicolopoulos. This economic forecast, if it is greater than what we have calculated - in real terms, however - will not be drawing or expanding. So what do you want me to say? We've been told that we've been told that at kindergartens...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u246	There are problems...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u247	Wait a minute, because they think we're leaving the real need uncovered. Two-thirds of the kids go with distraction, and I don't know what else in children's stations, right and left. They've set up such families, that's. Can we clear the day from the wheat? That's the point. What's our purpose? Should we leave the children of the heavy autistic spectrum or the ones with off-treatment paralysis? Are we all right? So this need has a prediction and a reward, based on what we can give as a country. We give the doctor 10 euros a visit. You're gonna tell me, that's less. Okay. You know, however, that reasoning had 15 euros in 1993. In other words, they put it, then, 4,500 drachmas, and at the same time put the treatment at 500 drachmas. Why? How did that happen? And then it was the days of the fat cows. And then, in 2000, etc. The psychotherapy was put at 800 drachmas then. And these were translated into euros. Who put these on? Wasn't it a matter of a client system? Less, then, is the therapist offering a child with motor problems than a scholarship to the same child, which also has a problem with the speech? So this is what we need to regulate now. Some may react, but the real need, we will cover it, reward it decently and equally to the various categories and agree on some things. However, a limit of expenditure, as in all categories of EOPY providers, will exist. If we need to increase it, we'll increase it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u248	Priorisation, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u249	To be prioritised.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u250	It's all about prioritising. I don't disagree. But listen to me. In the name of...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u251	...and quality in services.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u252	In the name of the big problem, what is used as an argument is 'do not touch'. But it's not like that. Because, you know what?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u253	Control, control and services, services.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u254	We've done a prioritization. And some other things. We see these things, after a year we have sat down, a little better, and we can and can understand what happens to us because the system has balanced a little.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u255	It is more the control and more the services.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u256	Look. From the demolition and black money no social charge in Greece has escaped. There's no sanitary zone there. Don't go crazy. Do you know what we see? We see a situation - I have said it before in Parliament - and we control it now. Is it possible, in four years' time, that, in the middle of memoranda, the expenditure, like, on the suffrages of the 13 million to go to 55? Some people prescribe them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u257	Check these, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u258	Minister, please finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u259	Wait a minute. Some people prescribe them. They are not innocent of blood, nor are those who prescribe nor those who perform.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u260	Minister, listen to me. I really am saying this, frankly, that what you are saying is interesting, but we cannot, with this question, extend to the whole of the matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u261	Let me give you one last example. I want to answer with evidence. If EPPY bought the movies...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u262	Put them on the strong ones!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u263	We're putting them on. I'm sorry, are you telling me? Find someone else.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u264	Here you are not telling us the names of the ministers who signed the price lists of medicines. We all know.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u265	Mr. Nicolopoulou, let's finish this debate on the subject. Minister, there's been an interesting conversation, don't ruin it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u266	Mr. Loverdos, Mr. Salmas, Mr. Georgiadis, Mr. Vorides, signed them, since 2010, after the price sheets. Of course, and I know that some things Mr. Martinis...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u267	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u268	Just a word, 'cause he asked me, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u269	Yeah, but you said you'd say less and then you got back to nine minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u270	Mr. Nicolopoulou...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u271	There's everything. Listen to me, Mr. Nicolopoulos. The government exercises the rule of the country. The government is not in court and is not imprisoned. That's what justice does. We've sent them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u272	The money to find...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u273	The kids are interested in us.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u274	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended from the top Western theories, after taking part in the educational program "Kappostiria" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, thirty students and students and three teachers from the 1st General School of Nea Smyrni. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Guys, you are here on a day when parliamentary scrutiny is being carried out, that is, Members are asking the relevant ministers on matters of interest and the ministers are answering. Unfortunately, you came to the last question. We don't have any further meeting. You entered the Chamber when the last of the questions that have been asked today ends. Therefore, as long as you sit here, you will hear me announcing the questions which will not be answered, because the Minister responsible has a coma, and then the sitting will be closed. Ladies and gentlemen, the third, with number 457/7-2-2017, a topical question by MP II of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis, on the permanentisation of the five-year obligation firefighters, will not be discussed because the Minister has a coma and cannot be present. Also, the fifteenth, under number 382/23-1-2017, a topical question by MP I Thessaloniki, Mr.Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister of Interior, concerning the plan to weaken the Police and Fire Force of Macedonia, will not be discussed for the same reason. The fourth under number 454/7-2-2017, a topical question by the Independent MEP, Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras, to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the urgent need to regulate housing loans in a Swiss franc, will not be discussed, due to the unsettled obligations of Mr Papadimitriou, who cannot be present. The thirteenth, with number 328/10-1-2017, a topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the education of the applicants, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister of Education Mr. Konstantinos Gavroglou. The second question, under number 455/7-2-2017, of the second question by the Member of Parliament, Iraklios of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the major problems and unjust charges of high insurance contributions, will not be discussed, due to the impediment of the Minister of State, Mr. Petropoulos. The sixth question under number 456/7-2-2017, first question by the Member of Parliament, Mr Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the workers and self-employed, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. The debate on the topical and urgent debate is closed. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-10-S1-commons.u275	With the consent of the House at 13.26 hours the sitting on Monday, February 13, 2017, at 18.00, on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny: topical questions.
