ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-14-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour to inform the House that the Standing Committee on Public Administration, Public Order and Justice presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights: 'European mandate for investigation into criminal matters - harmonisation of legislation with Directive 2014/41/EU'. Also, I have the honour to announce to the House the topical and urgent question issue of Friday 15 September 2017. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 1481/12-9-2017 topical question by Congressman I Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition, Alexandros Triantafylides, to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject of “Credit entitlement to red loans from borrower I – Preferential status”. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Under No 1457/11-9-2017, the current question by MP II of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdus to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Number developments in the investment of ELDORADO GOLD" in Halkidiki". 3. Under No 1449/8-9-2017, a topical question by MP B' Thessaloniki of the Union of Centres Mr Aristides Fokas to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "An unjustified delay in the progress of work by ELLINIKOS CHRYSOS". Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS We will begin with our second question under number 1484/12-9-2017, the first question of the Athens Parliamentary II of the Communist Party of Greece, Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: "To abolish the interventions by Law.4387/2016 in the Statute of the Personnel Insurance Fund of the Commercial Bank (TEPETE)". Mr. Katsotis has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-14-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, it is well known that all the funds were integrated with Law 4387/2016. The EFF had been subject to the Personnel Insurance Fund of the Commercial Bank under Law 3371/2005 and Law 3455/2006, without prejudice to the conditions, conditions and pension benefits of the insured until 31/12/1992. However, employers’ contributions were reduced to facilitate the sale of the Commercial to ‘CREDIT AGRICOLE’ in 2006. The Government of L.4387/2016 attempts to abolish the conditions and conditions of retirement laid down in the Fund's statute. They were reduced at the same time as the law to 3,314% for each year of insurance to 1.75%. The pre-retirement scheme on the time when the pension entitlement provided for in the statute was based was abolished. Thus, it is exonerated by the government's legislative intervention once again by Alpha Bank, as successor to the Commercial Bank, of course by charging the cost of insurance to the insured persons themselves. At the same time, with the inclusion of the services of the TATTTE health sector, as a former TAYTEKO branch of EVKA, a number of benefits such as children's camps that are also a condition for the collective OTO - banks contract, are degraded and costs are borne by Alpha Bank's obligation to social security. The questions, Minister, are whether you intend to take some measures. In particular, if you repeal those specific articles provided for and mentioned in the question, which refer to the pre-retirement provision of the EFF, which also refers to the reduction of the rate of replacement and whether you will apply the terms and conditions of the fund's statute, since it is known that the EIF has not been dissolved and still exists as a fund. Furthermore, if the competent ECA department of EKA is to provide pre-retirement benefits with the necessary staff, in order to implement fully and without infringement the Statute of EKA and to obtain insurance and pension services and benefits for nine thousand insured and retired persons, without any problems and delays. We're waiting for your answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-14-S1-commons.u3	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-14-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Katsotis, this kind of fund, as was the case in the banking sector, was set up at the initiative of the bank and within the framework of collective autonomy between trade unions and banks. Unfortunately, however, in the meantime, they were mainly used to facilitate the banks, in order to be exempted from staff with voluntary exit programmes, with programmes which caused the damage to social security. Unfortunately, this continued after 2005, under other circumstances. The then government with Law 3371 has indeed transferred to social security all the obligations now. It did not, however, make a proper account of the burden on the banks. You all know that. That was an announcement then. The Single Insurance Fund for Officials was designated as not a body but a lorry leading to the death of the rights of staff members of staff. It was well known because the economic study at the time led to a very small, asymmetrical burden on the obligations of the system towards the insured. In other words, the sums which would cover the benefits provided for by the documents were not paid. It was therefore a process undermined from the outset. It was known that it would reach a point in the EBRD that it would no longer be able to pay. This time came in autumn 2016. On the basis of the financial data, the maintenance period of the EBRD was scarce and could not continue. The only way, therefore, to save the core of the right of insured persons was to make them subject to the Single Social Security Agency, and indeed, with a better level of insurance than other categories, there is provision for an increase, which you mentioned, of the order of 1.75% for each year. In the subsidiary, this increase was set at 0.546% per year instead of a 0.46% replacement rate. That is what we could do in this case. The question of bank obligations is a matter which has been brought before the courts and which is pending. Under no circumstances did we, with these arrangements, give up the banks who have to pay the amount that they should normally define, and the courts will judge it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-14-S1-commons.u5	Mr Kattotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-14-S1-commons.u6	Minister, our position is known, as far as L.4387/2016 is concerned and who comes to serve. It is an incision, as you have said, on social security - we say it abolishes the social character - and it is, of course, coming to level the total rights and the conquests of the insured. It comes to relieve employers of the contributions and to charge the total cost of the contribution on the back of the insured. Here too, you exempted Alpha Bank from the obligation to pay contributions by transferring costs to the insured persons themselves. You're saying the banks didn't pay their contributions. You have nothing but to look for them. You have only through the bill, by the law you have brought, to impose - if you like - this solution to the payment of contributions from banks and not the easy solution that has been to remove rights and reduce benefits to the insured. You have, however, chosen what the system wants: the free movement of workers and the state from insurance contributions and the logic of social security remuneration, effectively abolishing the redistributive nature of the person who has to pay, which is the employer. So, here you have preferred and chosen what the previous ones have chosen, namely to reduce the cost - as you say the non-wage cost - by reducing the cost of the labour force as a whole in terms of participation in social security. As far as the workers at the Commercial Bank are concerned, they hear what you say, they hear whether they will actually have better benefits through the EBRD. They see themselves that the reductions that have been made are large, huge and consider them unfair. The statutes of the fund itself exist even if you intervene against a statute which exists, operates and is supposed to provide benefits to the health care sector and also to the pension sector. We urge you once again to see these interventions, to stop and restore justice for the benefit of the insured of the Commercial Bank
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-14-S1-commons.u7	You have the floor for your dentistry, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-14-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Katsotis, we have the sensitivity to really see the sudden change in working conditions as a real problem, and we must take it into account in our policies. But the source of the law for the regulations of the EIB is the private sphere. It was the private initiative among him as this agreement between the union and the employer was created. There is no source for insurance law, the public social system. That is why it was structured in a logic of the possibilities that the bank would have in the future and, as I explained, in the interest of the bank, it chose to build such an entity, because the contributions it held and used them on its behalf, did not transfer these contributions to IKA, such as other employees. It was not the main public interest money, which was served by social security. It was her own interest. So he saved money he didn't really give. The cashier kept it. And the second side of the use of this kind of body was to use the fund as a tool to get rid of staff, which it wanted to reduce. That's what happened. That is why, and you know that, we all know - and many times the banks - are not just this, but there are other employers, who had such forms - they gave as an incentive to withdraw to the last grade a month, to raise the salary too high for an increased pension, because the pension was granted on the basis of the last salary in many cases, like the TSE. As long as the bank was the guarantor to pay and there was, that was a matter of its own. However, when it comes to social security, we must see that we intervene to salvage the core of the right, which is the appropriate measure for our rightful intervention in the name of social security alone. When we talk about a replacement rate of 3,314%, we are talking about the thirty-five years, which was the usual retirement time, which exceeded wages. I mean, we had a pension of over 110% compared to the wage. They couldn't keep these things inside the FDA. It was impossible. I told you that this dispute has been brought to the courts. In fact, it became an account of such an account that was not fair, it did not assess the obligations of the bank and the other banks in the system. He's going to the courts. As far as the procedure for the operation of the EIF is concerned, I will inform you that there is no pension pending. A special section has been organised, fully staffed and, at least in this respect, serves the insured. There are no loose ends. He has been staffed and works normally for the needs of the employees. There is no problem with those insured in this respect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-14-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, too, Minister. Before we move to the next question, I would like to inform the House that the first question under number 1459/11-9-2017 will not be discussed in the second cycle of the New Democracy MP, George Koumoutsakos, on the subject: "The Greek Government's stand against the continuing intransigence of Macedonia", due to the obstruction of the Minister of Foreign Affairs Mr. Nicholas Kotzias, who is accompanied by the Prime Minister in Corfu. Nor will the fourth question be discussed under number 1357/29-8-2017 in the context of the second question by the MP of Heraklion of the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMARKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKMMMMMMMKMKMKMKMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMVVVVVVMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMM For the above reason, the fifth question under number 1329/28-8-2017 will not be discussed in the context of the second question of the Chios MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Andreas Michaelides to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Completion of decorating and fenced area at the airport of Chios and construction of an extension of the road of Christos". For the same reason, the sixth question will not be discussed under number 1114-29-6-2017, a topical question from the Seres of the Democratic Compact of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.MAR.Michael Jelegis to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "The creation of three new toll stations on the Promahona - Serres - Port of Thessaloniki is disastrous for the Prefecture of Serres". Likewise, there will be no debate on the seventh under No 1248/18-7-2017 topical question by the Member of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Stavros Tassos, to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on "To take immediate action to compensate for earthquakes and the damages in Lesvos". Nor will the first question be discussed under number 148/11-9-2017, the first question by MP Kavala of the New Democracy, Nikolaos Panagiotopoulos, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Reimbursement of farmers of Kavala Law for the damage from extreme weather phenomena", due to the obstruction of the Minister for Rural Development and Food, Evangelos Apostolos, who is involved in a mission abroad. The eighth Question No 1242/18-7-2017, published in the Official Journal of the European Communities by the Member of Parliament, Mr Maximos Charakopoulos, to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Public and private buildings in possession - hide official evidence - steps to liberate them", will not be discussed as a result of the impediment of the Minister responsible, Mr Toska. Finally, the third with number 1455/11-9-2017, a topical question by the Independent MEP, Eftathios Panagoulis, to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject of “Incomplete delivery of the individual political ideas of the Panagouli family and the removal of documents”, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the relevant Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-14-S1-commons.u10	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-14-S1-commons.u11	Yes, Mr. Panagulis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-14-S1-commons.u12	Mr President, I would like to protest strongly against the Bureau because it is the sixth time that the Minister for Civil Protection, Mr. Toskas, does not appear in the House! The five previous times involved another question. This question concerns democracy, Mr President, and it is a disgrace to Mr Toska, who does not come to answer for an officer of the Greek Army George Panagoulis was the first officer to stand up and leave, not to serve the junta. And Mr. Toskas isn't coming to answer. I understand why he's doing this. Mr. Toskas is an enemy of this Chamber, for at that time he served with faith and devotion as a hope for the junta.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-14-S1-commons.u13	Allow me, Mr. Panagoulis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-14-S1-commons.u14	Wait a minute, Mr. President. Let me finish. It's a matter of democracy now!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-14-S1-commons.u15	Let me tell you that we are not asking a question now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-14-S1-commons.u16	If you let me go, I'd be done. So, today, Mr. Toskas comes to hide the contacts that MOSAD had with the Greek CYP, the then Prime Minister of Israel with George Papadopoulos, for the disappearance and the consensuals that the junta made for the surrender of my brother, who is missing. Why isn't Mr. Toscas coming? Do you want me to show you Mr. Toska's family pictures of the junta?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-14-S1-commons.u17	Mr. Panagoulis, I have a delivery record in front of me. It seems that the evidence has been delivered. In any case, in the absence of the Minister, it is not appropriate to say this.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-14-S1-commons.u18	Since Mr. Toskas never comes!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-14-S1-commons.u19	I gave you the floor over and over! You know how much I respect the story of the Panagouli family. You know very well that I respect her in practice. But please. I have given you the floor over and do not take the opportunity to make allegations in the absence of the Minister, because it is not right to do so.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-14-S1-commons.u20	You gave me the floor, Mr President, as you had to. You didn't do anything for me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-14-S1-commons.u21	No, wait a minute. I didn't say I did you a favor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-14-S1-commons.u22	It's the sixth time he doesn't show up!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-14-S1-commons.u23	All right, can I tell you something?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-14-S1-commons.u24	It's the sixth time he doesn't show up!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-14-S1-commons.u25	It's over!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-14-S1-commons.u26	Why doesn't Mr. Toscas show up?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-14-S1-commons.u27	Thank you. The second question will be debated now under number 148512-9-2017 in the second cycle of the Member of Parliament of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on developments in the 'Europe' press distribution agency. Here, Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-14-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, there has been an extensive redistribution in the press - for paper and electronics - which is, of course, linked to developments at political level, but also to economic reclassifications between business groups. So we have new business fireplaces, which invest in the press. Of course, these investments are not for the purpose of information - everything else - they are for the purpose of supporting parallel business activities carried out by these fireplaces, of supporting the system as a whole by manipulating popular discontent on the one hand and of supporting urban political parties and their political staff in various ways whether they are in a government position or in a opposition position. Of course, these new fireplaces with the old may be killed for what will dominate, but the subject of this competition concerns only one group, it is only the group of workers in this area. So we have extensive overturns with redundancies, with unpaid and dismissal workers, with delays in the payment of recruited workers, overturning working relationships, with unpaid recruitment and very cheap workers. And that, of course, does not only relate to journalists and technicians, it also relates to workers in printing and press distribution agencies. Two are essentially press distribution agencies, Europe and Argos. The shareholders in these agencies were the issuers themselves. At the beginning of August, the issuers - shareholders of the "Europe" agency suddenly left and moved massively to the "Argos" agency, with the result that the "Europe" agency does not have a job. Workers remain unpaid. They owe them most of the July, August, the leave allowance, and the September wage that runs now. And of course, all the press distribution activity was transferred to the Argos agency. It did not reduce the activity, but the Argos agency also exploited workers from Europe, as well as rented workers. In fact, the heads in Europe were calling on the workers to leave without compensation and to go to contractors to work in Argos. Throughout this process we have a development. The "Europe" company has asked to join the bankruptcy procedure, with the result that the future of the workers is uncertain. What we are saying is that the publishers have agreed exactly through such a process to "root" the rights today at the "Europe" agency and tomorrow at the "Argos" agency, setting up new shops of possible events, after the old have been bankrupt, to have very cheap workers. This question to the government is what measures will be taken to ensure the rights of workers at the "Argo" agency, the full payment of their employees, the safeguarding of all jobs with full employment and insurance rights, without a negative change in their working situation. And since the whole item of press distribution has been transferred to Argos and the workers at Argos do not arrive to meet the needs - we have seen it with our own eyes, because we have seen too many rentals and contractors during the tour - the workers of "Europe" must themselves be transferred to the Argos.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-14-S1-commons.u29	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-14-S1-commons.u30	Mr Karathanasopoulos, you raise a very serious issue concerning the overall lives of hundreds of workers in the press, especially in the distribution sector. The Ministry of Labour from the first moment dealt with the question of workers in Europe. As you know, already at the end of August, he became a first tripartite in the Ministry of Labour, in the presence of the Secretary-General. There the workers said that there was a transfer of Europe's turnover - one, that is, from the two press release companies - to Argos, that they were due for two months, and that they were concerned about safeguarding their jobs in the new company, in fact in the company which is also active in the press distribution area. The Ministry of Labour asked the company to submit a plan for repayment of debts within five days and invited them to take the necessary steps to consult and inform it provided for by the Presidential Decree in these cases. The company "Europe" did not meet this requirement of the Ministry, and a tripartite meeting was held at the beginning of September at the Ministry of Labour, where the company "Argos" was attended by its representatives. Both the employees and the representatives of the company "Europe" said that Europe's turnover has now been fully transferred to the company "Argos". Argos, of course, refused this because this would have meant the company's confession that we have a transfer here and therefore would have to keep all jobs with the same rights and the same wages. The Ministry of Labour argued that we should - and we are committed to this in the next few days - in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice to see whether they have separated any fraudulent actions by shareholders and issuers for this process of bankruptcy or if there is a clear case of transfer of the company. I should also like to inform you that the co-legislative ministries have submitted a question - an intervention in the Competition Committee, because it seems that conditions of a pure monopoly are being created on the market, with repercussions which are dramatic for the workers themselves. So, from the point of view of the intervention of the Ministry itself, we are in constant monitoring of the case to do what is foreseen by labour legislation. At the same time, the Labour Inspectorate has acted intensively in this case. Checks have been carried out in Athens at the printery "Iris", where employees of the company were found to be workers in Europe. Europe was, of course, denied it, there were no announcements about their overtime, undeclared worker, the relevant fine of EUR 10 500 was imposed. The same is happening in Thessaloniki. Labour differences have been scheduled in the next days of September and early October. The same in Crete, where workers have been checked and found, who have argued that they have separated informal lending from "Europe" to "Argos". The company of course refuses these. However, all complaints are investigated by the Labour Inspectorate and the relevant administrative penalties have been imposed. I therefore believe that the Ministry shows that it has full contact with the workers and what happens in this case. The crucial thing here is to be able to determine what workers themselves have to say, that we have a clear case of transferring the company to ensure that the workers' jobs in the "Argos" operation are ensured, but also their rights, as they had been built up by the previous company.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-14-S1-commons.u31	Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-14-S1-commons.u32	The fact that we have a carabine transfer does not need to be looked into much, Minister, since all of Europe's activities have been transferred to Argos. There's no other agency. There were two of them. So those who left "Europe" went to "Argo" directly. Since shareholders in "Europe", as in "Argos" are the issuers themselves, it is like me that I am the shareholder of a business and publisher at the same time leaving my business and going to my competitor. That's what happened. In fact, at the second meeting at the Ministry, where she participated as a representative of Argos, she admitted that a large publishing house, which had gone to "Europe" and then two months later she left to "Argos" until early September, had not signed a contract. The "Argos" served the publications "CRECTRIBUTION" without having signed a contract. Where is this thing if it's not such a thing? One single one was the target. They found the opportunity through this process to break the rights of workers. Can you give us, for example, the information from the beginning of August, about how many rentals and contract workers are employed in ‘Argos’? In fact, many of them are in childhood, who are employed in very heavy jobs, in the transport of the press. Second element, Minister. You also referred to the intervention made by the Ministry of Development on competition issues. This does not, however, guarantee workers' positions. What does that intervention say? That there must be a second or a third agency, if any, to distribute the press. However, they do not refer to labour rights. They could build a new agency. Charging back the past, the new shareholders who buy the publishing companies will build new distribution agencies and get workers without pre-service, much cheaper, without collective agreements, without stable labour relations. So we have a deep overthrow. This will also result in the workers who are currently in Argo and have certain rights to lose them. We say this because the project has been played before, Minister, by transferring and moving publishers from one agency to another, of course on a smaller scale. What was the result? And reduce the wages of workers, but also reduce the staff by 50% in seven years. From nine hundred fifty workers at the distribution agencies, we have now reached four hundred fifty. Five hundred jobs have been lost, making a substantially similar volume. So it is a plan that exists, a counter-working plan at the expense of workers, to further reduce their rights and the price of the labour force and to break them. This is where the Ministry is playing the role of Pontius Pilate. Excuse me for saying that, but why am I saying that? Because it has formed a reactive, anti-reactive framework and this framework is maintained. In fact, I would remind you that just last week in your Ministry's bill, we asked you to accept the JRC's amendment to the Banking Code. Today, Europe is becoming bankrupt, so workers must forget what they owed, because they will not get a penny of sacks, because they come from third countries and are sweating in the ranking. First the banks enter, after the state, the taxes and the insurance funds, and at the end, the workers. So you can't guarantee them from there since you didn't change your bankruptcy code, because you brought these overturns. So on the substance, it remains the question: what tools do you have in your hands to ensure jobs, without any loss of rights and employees' enslavements? We specifically want you to analyse these.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-14-S1-commons.u33	Mrs Ahchioglu has the floor for her denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-14-S1-commons.u34	Mr Karathanasopoulos, I think that from the evidence I have presented - and I could be more detailed, but it makes no sense to permanently quote information - the only thing that does not arise is that the Ministry of Labour has played the role of Pontius Pilate. Since the first moment the issue emerged, as early as August, the tripartite meetings and the Ministry of Labour immediately took place in favour of the protection of workers. He made specific requests to the operation. It is pressed by all the means it has and at the same level the Labour Inspectorate, with constant checks, fines, labour disputes. Now, they gather, if I am not mistaken, and the relevant responsible statements to make the monthly reports of the non-payment of the accrued. We therefore see that of the two central tools that the Ministry has, that is, its central agency and its control mechanism, it frames the whole issue in a fairly intensive way. As far as the result is concerned, I will not disagree that the substance here in the case is to be proved legally, because I, too, have no doubt that there is a transfer here - that transfer and legal payments are provided for - as you know, under the law, there is a total guarantee of jobs and acquired rights, wages and so on. Therefore, this would fully guarantee workers and their follow-up. But, as you remember, a few days ago we passed a law that matters to workers' lives, because it shields the existing framework from unpaid work and undeclared work. I will not go into the overtime issues that are extremely important, but I insist that you should not underestimate that. This is an issue that, for the first time, enables the worker to issue a enforceable title against the property of the employer, and this does not exclude anonymous companies, as you have stressed many times.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-14-S1-commons.u35	But there are no employers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-14-S1-commons.u36	I didn't interrupt you. So it does not exclude anonymous companies. A payment order may be issued within a very short period of time to execute the property of the employer, the legal person of the employer. From there on, as far as the bankruptcy code is concerned, it will indeed require a great deal of effort. This will also be a difficult effort towards lenders, so that there can be a reform of this kind that can guarantee some elementary for workers who are due to them. Therefore, I will not disagree on this issue that we need intervention there to be active in order to reshape the order in the Banking Code. At the same time, of course, we should not underestimate everything that is being done at the present time, given the restrictive conditions and given the committee's different approach to the labour market, which is the strengthening of the Human Resources Labour Inspectorate, which has now been recruited to over ten new jobs, so we are actively supporting the Labour Inspectorate's work inspectorate with human resources - and we have been constantly tripartite in the Ministry - over the past few years - 25 million people have been hired to earn their wages, because they are their jobs, but they have been paid and thanks to the active intervention of the Labour Inspectorate. In other words, I think we are also proving that we are doing everything we can to strengthen the rights of workers. There is too much to do. The bankruptcy code is one of them. You're right about that. We will continue to work in the same direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-14-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, too. I have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights has forwarded to Parliament, in accordance with Rule 86 of the Constitution and Law 3126/2003 "Prime responsibility of the Ministers", as is the case, on 13-09-2017: 1. Criminal case law concerning the officials who have been in office since 2011 and from the ministers of Finance, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Public Order and Civil Protection, 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Criminal proceedings concerning the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport Mr Christos Spirtzis, 3. Criminal proceedings concerning the former Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights Mr. Charalambos Athanasios, 4. Criminal case law against political persons; and 5. Criminal proceedings concerning the Minister of National Defence Mr Panagiotis Kammenos. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minutes of Monday 10 July 2017 have been distributed and the House is asking whether they have been ratified.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-14-S1-commons.u38	The minutes of Monday 10 July 2017 were therefore validated. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-14-S1-commons.u39	With the consent of the House at 10.15 ́ the sitting for tomorrow, Friday, September 15, 2017, at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of this House's work: (a) a reference to the International Day of Democracy and the Day of National Remembrance for the destruction of Asia Minor Hellenism, and (b) parliamentary scrutiny, topical debate.
