ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 29-11-2017, the minutes of the LG's meeting of Wednesday, 29 November 2017, with regard to the vote on the whole draft law: ‘Greek Institute of Byzantine and post-Byzantine Studies and other provisions’.]] I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent question issue of Friday 1 December 2017. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1.H by number 471/28-11-2017 a topical question by MP II Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Dimitrios Mardas to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Mondocultures: Significant losses of public revenues to the public the inability of new permits and illegal activities". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 468/27-11-2017 by MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Financing from PPC S.A. the work of improving the street Pournaria - Kyri Bridge - Mygdalia, amounting to 500.00 euros". 3. The question by No. 396/23-11-2017 of the Vice-President of the Parliament and Deputy of the Athens Union of Centres Mr. Marios Georgiadis to the Minister of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information on the equal visibility of all parties in the media. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 405/24-11-2017 by Congressman I Thessaloniki of the Association of Kentroes Mr.Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the protection of real estate of up to 300,000 euros from auctions. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Under No 306/16-11-2017, a topical question by MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: "Expansion of a project in the second phase of the expansion of the telecommunications network Megalopolis Arcadia." 3. The Question No 253/7-11-2017 by Independent Member of the Evia Parliament, Mr Nikolaos Michou, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "PPC cuts off the current in the Karystia Evia". Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS We will begin with our second question with No 403/24-11-2017 on the second question of the Parliamentary Attica of the Democratic Association of the PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Friday Christophilopoulou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: ‘Security of the Personal Support Account of the National Bank (LEPETE)’. Mrs Christophilopoulou, you have the floor for two minutes to develop your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, as you know, days that are sixteen thousand five hundred pensioners' families of the National Bank of Greece are experiencing an exceptional anxiety. They are struggling, because the aid credit is at 13% for December and they are very afraid that for the next month this may fall to 10% and the next month there will not even be any assistance for these pensioners and their families. Minister, you are well aware and you have supported the form of LEPETE and its autonomy as an agreement, as an account arising from an employer-working agreement. After all, you yourself, as a legal person, have given an opinion that it is an account of guaranteed benefits. However, since October, there have been warnings - I will not say threats - involving the form of a threat to the employer that he has no obligation to provide the benefits, to give the money for the benefits of the assistance, but of course, as you know well, and health and care for pensioners, both in terms of the second part and in respect of the workers of the National Bank. The LEPETE account is actually in bankruptcy, in liquidation. I would therefore like to point out here that it is not enough to say that we are pressing for a solution to be found between employers and workers, because we all know and I think that no one in this Chamber will argue that the best solution would be to have an employers and workers agreement that would ensure the sustainability of the benefits of health and health for these pensioners. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll be back in a minute, Mr. President. What we expect from the government, Minister, is something more and not just one attitude that we want this agreement to be and to ensure the viability of LEITE. We expect you to take more active action, a more active political initiative, so that all the factors can sit on the table and find a solution now, immediately. The sixteen thousand five hundred families are demanding this, which are currently experiencing the prospect of a first poverty.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mrs. Christophilopoulou. The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs Christophilopoulou, I am sure that in your dentistry you will propose the solution that you would give when it was in your government's responsibility for all this and when the administration of the National Bank decided with its General Council to regulate the issues of LPETE, as it has been and so have come to an end. Because you have referred to my own opinions in the capacity of legal counsel, the lawyer, to put things in place - I have said it again, I will say it for the last time, I hope - my opinion has been posted and there is at the Association of National Workers. In 2008, I expressed the view that on the basis of what Mr George Mirkos himself mentioned in his related book, the Governor of the National Bank in 1995, when the General Council took the decision that it was the guaranteed benefit account - so the Bank itself said - and that it would pay a contribution that in 1996 in particular gave an increase in the replacement rate to about 1,29%, which led to an increase in the payment of supplementary pensions, as it linked them to each time increases in the wages of active employees. These too, without the relevant reserve. Because, as the Bank claimed at the time, there is no need to reserve LEITE, because the Bank itself guaranteed it. That's what he said then. And what I said in my opinion is that, according to the Bank, they are guaranteed benefits and, on the basis of these provisions, they promoted voluntary exit programmes with the certainty that those who came out with voluntary exit programmes will receive this benefit at the level they were given and that was the term of voluntary exit programmes. Where such circumstances existed, in the circumstances that I am referring to, there is indeed an issue of non-contractual obligation, particularly those for which it was guaranteed. All contracts, and in particular contracts of indefinite duration, are known to the legal theory that they are subject to changes. There is no unchanged contract. The International Labour Office set out in its opinion in 2005 that these agreements must be made with agreements of a general nature, between trade unions and employers, and this recommendation was then made to Greece, which we support today. It is not a avoidance of responsibility when we say that the bank should discuss workers. It is also under the relevant report of the International Labour Organisation, an obligation that exists for the employer. Yesterday, as I was informed, the National Bank agreed to set up a committee - I do not know if it is doing so - to negotiate with the workers so that, over a period of about twenty days, they could come up with a proposal. I do not know if the administration of the National Bank is right to manage this issue, I hope it will be handled properly and put the data down. This data should take into account the legitimate rights and expectations of workers and should not attempt to transfer to the responsibility of the public social security system, to the EIB now, the burdens with which the national is obliged to deal with this issue. The rest in my dentistry, and I'm waiting for your suggestion.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Minister. Mrs Christophilopoulou has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u6	Minister, it is beautiful to throw the ball in the platform or otherwise wash our hands as Pontius Pilates, but this government's manner "for everything the previous ones are to blame" also applies in this case. We have done self-criticism, but we are proud of a lot that we have done and now that you are implementing it, such as corruption, e-prescription or electronic auctions, you are not talking at all. Then you voted against them and you were in the bars. But let's leave that. I will leave this because the issue we are discussing does not require a party confrontation. You're the hands of wrongdoers. So I answer you this: so many years, even after the 2005 law - brought by Mr. Alolossoufis at that time, with whom we had disagreed - there has never been any problem with LEPETE and all the administrations have done everything they have to do and you know that, as the thousands of pensioners who are now experiencing the problem. All these years, there's been no problem. You're three years of government. In these three years, with incredible amateurisms, with terrible even criminal acts - Varoufakada in 2015 - banks arrived, and in particular the national have a problem. Listen, Minister, we, the Democratic Reconciliation, and the enlarged new institution will not dismiss the responsibility of counter-population and we will also make proposals at our conference. Let me tell you, though, that you are enough to tell me what you have said now, to refer to ILO, or to refer to general issues and not give me an answer? Indeed, there is this negotiating committee. I'll agree with you. Let's see where it's going to end up. Is the government going to keep an eye on this? When the bank has public money, when the main shareholder is the Financial Stability Fund, where is the Government? Why doesn't the government put down the agencies? This concerns not only you personally, but also Mr Drasakis and the government as a whole, which, because he created the problem, has to give a solution. I, Minister, expect your proposal. Our proposal is that the government cannot do what it does not understand and wish, as you wished - in the wishes we might agree - that the problem will be solved. Nor can it keep up with the paralysing attitude that it has been holding up to now. What the government needs to do is to act politically, to see from all sides - I mentioned the way - how a sustainable solution can be given. If we leave the committee and time passes, the pensioners will not have any assistance. And so many years they have done their contributions uninterruptedly. So I expect, Minister, that is more than 'we see the trains pass'. You seem to be intolerant to the Bollocks and Ruvik, anyway, as a government. The same tolerance I see you are showing to employers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mrs Christophilopoulou. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr President. I expected to see how my colleague managed this. Now called the Change Movement, I thought it would change the line.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u9	Funny.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u10	No, because you talked to me about party controversy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u11	You did it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u12	I am thinking of what the river will be in this respect and what DIMAR's position on this matter will be.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u13	That's our thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u14	I'm just wondering. You spoke about party controversy which I did not attempt.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u15	Do you throw the ball at the platform again?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u16	Minister, don't open a dialogue. You ask questions that are forced to comment and open the dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u17	When you ask me, I think that you have studied the matter, and that, at least, you have asked prominent members of the "National BANK", who are members of your party. Those to tell you, who were responsible for handling all these issues and from a trade union position. Do not force me to go into matters which I do not usually comment on, because my position - as a responsibility - has to look at all the issues, together with the state of the 'NATIONAL BANK', which must be based on a prospect of sustainable development. So do not judge me because the problem does exist on the basis of specific reasons. If anyone doesn't see the reasons, he can't find the solution. The reason is that today we have ten thousand three hundred retired by LEPETE by supplementary pension and have only four thousand eight hundred insured, when the workers at the NATIONAL BANK are approaching ten thousand.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u18	Three years you've been government. Why didn't you change it?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u19	Mrs. Christophilopoulou, you don't sound on television. Sounds like me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u20	I don't have the right to tritology.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u21	Do you think that in such a critical situation you should prevent me from developing my reasoning, which really helps find a solution to the problem? In 2005 - when what happened with the Law of Horse-Skuffs - with the inclusion of all of them in the EIF, a mortal fund with the EFF was left behind. But you come here unprepared. Without asking what is the position of the National Workers' Association today - the majority of which have an extrapolation of your own political options and directions - or what OTOO says. A different attitude is perhaps from what you say. If OTOE and the National Association tells me to join the EIF now, let's talk about it. Tell me, though. They haven't told me. You say that. If that's what you're proposing, we'll look into it and we'll talk about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u22	You said so. Is that a solution?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u23	We do not, however, think that we should - without trying to resolve the problem by the bank itself - transfer the burden to the social security system, to the public sector, and that is not what we are going to accept. The burdens will be borne by the bank within the social security system, and that will be done. We didn't get there. We are at the forefront of trying to find a solution. We can finally have a little overdue discussion. Yesterday, as I have heard, a committee was set up to negotiate the relevant issues. I would remind you that Mr Arapoglou in 2008 had announced the abolition of LEPETE clearly and Mr Rapanos in 2012 by a PASOK government at the time - there was no responsibility for our Government - he also announced that LEPETE would end. There's no way it's over. We will not do that in the way our predecessors are thinking about doing so in the government, namely, irresponsiblely and leaving the source of pension funding to be deprived, because this has happened in all the ways I have mentioned. We will, of course, be in a position to seek an appropriate solution. But we will not relieve the bank of its obligation to seek it to find a solution now. And you're pushing me to quickly give a solution that the banks would want since we took over from the government.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u24	Not you. The government.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u25	I know very well, because I was in a position of responsibility at the Ministry, that these guys wanted and pushed there to give the subsidiary to the EIF, what you're asking me now. We won't.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u26	Did I ask you to do that? Mr. President, excuse me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u27	Mrs. Christophilopoulou, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u28	He can't falsify what I'm saying. He can't put words in my own words.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u29	We cannot start the dialogue, however, at the moment.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u30	You can't do that. Such misleading practice.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u31	Mrs. Christophilopoulou...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u32	Minister, at the moment, you have opened the dialogue and it is not a point of order. Before entering the next two questions, which will be answered by the Minister for Culture and Sport, Mr Connordou, to read out some which will not be answered. The Question No 410/27-11-2017 by MP Carditsa of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Panagiotas Vranzas to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "The vertical drop in the price of sheep milk and the real risk of feta" will not be discussed due to the absence of the Minister responsible, Evangelos Apostolos, abroad on a government mission. Also, the current question by MP Arta of New Democracy, George Stylios to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Annombria and shortcomings in irrigation infrastructures are dramatically reducing the income of olive growers", will not be discussed due to the absence of the Minister responsible, Mr Apostolos, abroad on a government mission. The Question No 473/28-11-2017 by MP Achaias of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the workers at the press distribution agency "EUROPE", will not be discussed due to the absence of the relevant Minister, Ephes Achtioglou, abroad. Under No 470/27-11-2017, a topical question by MP II Athens of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdus to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, on the subject: "The position of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for the so-called transnational agreement with Saudi Arabia", will not be discussed due to the absence of the relevant Minister, Mr. Nikolaos Kotzias, abroad on a service journey. Finally, the question by No 475/28-11-2017, by MP II of the Communist Party of Greece, Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on "Security of the State's sole responsibility for the universal and equal provision of public, free, modern and secure school buildings, hospitals, judiciary and other public buildings, as well as for the jobs and other working rights of employees in the company "KITIRIANS INDICATIONS S.A.". (ICT SA)’ will not be discussed due to lack of competence. The relevant Ministry, which could answer that question, is the Ministry of Finance. The third question under number 367/21-11-2017 of the first cycle of the MP of the Democratic Integration PASOK - DIMARMAR M.Michael Jeleli to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport on the subject "The creation of three new toll stations on the Promahona Road - Serres - Thessaloniki Port is disastrous for the Serres Law", will not be discussed due to the obstruction of the questionable MP. We will continue with the seventh under the number 304/15-11-2017 topical question by MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odyssea Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "The investment in Greek is in danger of canceling: EUR 75,000 new jobs and EUR 8,2 billion. The euro will be lost because of the tricks of the government." Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u33	Won't she answer Mrs. Kefalidou first?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u34	No, it's Mr. Constantinople.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u35	Because I had that show.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u36	No, as I have it here, on the list, Mr. Constantinople is. Either way, you're gonna answer it. Do you want to answer Mrs. Kefalidou first?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u37	I don't have a problem. Whatever the Minister knows best.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u38	I know them both. I just had that show.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u39	I imagine the Minister knows both. We don't think so.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u40	If you want to change it, we can change it. I don't have a problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u41	No, to God!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u42	All right, let's move on with the ninth number 293/13-11-2017 topical question of the Second Cycle of the MP Drama of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Kefalidou to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "Danger of the ending of the Museum and the archaeological site of Delphi". Madam Colleague, you have the floor for two minutes to develop your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u43	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by thanking the Ministry for its response. On 3 November, therefore, a timely question was tabled by the Democratic Reconciliation on 13 November. Then there were written questions from colleagues, because the matter had been raised too high, it had taken a great deal of publicity and scope. And today, at the end of the month, we are discussing the matter of the ending of the Delphi Museum. What timeliness are we talking about, I leave this to your judgement. However, I am glad that the leadership of the Ministry of Culture, although late, shows that it has reflexes. And I'm glad twice because the visit I made on November 17 to Delphi shows that he helped, he mobilized the Ministry. Why else explain the - by magic - a solution found by the Ministry - and announces it through my fellow Member Fokidas, Ilias Kostopanagiotou, on 20 November - which tells us that the Delphi Museum will function properly because fifteen contractual archaeological guards will be recruited under a contract of five months and the museum and archaeological site will be fully operational? Madam Secretary, can we agree on something? If a timely question and a visit to me is an appropriate and necessary treaty to resolve the problems of the Ministry, I promise you that I will organize all of Greece in order to find an incentive to solve your Ministry's problems. And to be serious now, you know very well that there is a direct danger that the Delphi Museum will be closed one day a week due to a lack of staff. On November 6th, you announced that on Tuesdays the archaeological site of Delphi will be open to the height of the temple of Apollo, the room of Haniochos will be open at the museum and the sanctuary of Pronia at a ticket price of 6 euros, or half. It's from the whole good thing, too. But, let's think in a museum with ten rooms closed the nine and an archaeological site, unique, to be only half a visitor. Does that give a solution to a problem? It's a backup and a patch. And because you also said that this is a temporary whole, until the recruitment process for fixed-term staff is completed, I will tell you that I was delighted to read in the daily press on November 27 that there is approval for the recruitment of four hundred people under a fixed-term private-law contract. The conventions are five months old and the specialties are ancient guardians, cleaners and workers. But, you know, something, Minister? This question - that is, the Delphi - was the occasion to discuss a very wide-ranging issue concerning the lack of protection in the monuments and museums of the whole country which ultimately fail. And I will tell you that the way this whole thing works is a huge blow not only to the local economy, and not just to the economy of the country, because there is another factor, that the country's image is being annulled abroad. And it is national tragic - I would say to you - and ridiculous on the other hand for a country that sells tourism mainly through cultural heritage and invests a great deal of its expectations of growth in culture and tourism, to have this picture. And I really want you to tell me what your thoughts are about the possibility...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u44	Please, finish this because you've already doubled your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u45	I shall conclude, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance. We rarely have the opportunity to discuss cultural issues in this Chamber, so I thank you in advance for your tolerance. How do you think, then, of dealing not only with the Delphi issue and what actions and initiatives will you take, in order to ensure both the correctness and the daily - I would say to you - the operation of museums and monuments in the country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Mrs. Kefalidou. Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs Kefalidou, thank you very much for giving me the opportunity to raise an issue which is of particular concern to the entire Greek territory, but of course also to the Ministry of Culture, which is the smooth and daily operation of the museums and archaeological sites of the country. This is a permanent objective, anguish and struggle of the Ministry of Culture and Sport. Daily care of all regional and central services is the uninterrupted and secure - and I stress it, safe - operation of organised archaeological sites, historic sites, both for visitors and for cultural heritage. We all know that there is a great need to recruit prisoners. The deficiencies in prison staff are created, they arise every time after the seasonal and permanent prison personnel leave. That is something we do not realize. There are people who are retired, there are workers who are transferred for family reasons, there are diseases, there are permits. All this creates shortcomings that have not always been made in advance. The agency's proposal was, therefore, non-functional for one day - on Tuesday - of archaeological sites and only for a few weeks. I stress this, because as the media projected, it was like getting into the Delphi Museum suddenly, which is something that, as you know very well, is not happening. We were talking about one day and for a few weeks, until the seasonal, winter staff of the four hundred guards we managed to secure. Therefore, in order to ensure the proper functioning of the Delphi Museum and of the Galaxy Museum collection, antiquities emancipation included in its action plan the recruitment of a certain period of prison staff and the sum of EUR 900,000, which was approved and certified in good time by the Ministry of Culture and Sport. This was calculated and spent for the summer on the basis of the thousands of three hundred and fourteen people, who know that they were hired as seasonal for the summer season. But there is also a lack of 400,000 euros, calculated for winter hours. Therefore, you see that there had been an appropriate preparation and preparation. Already since the summer, you know very well that we had announced that we had asked for four hundred more people for the winter season. This was possible with the approval of the Ministry of Administrative Reconstruction. So we were able to ensure these four hundred people, which will be distributed to all the museums and archaeological sites in the country during the winter period, with a duration of five months. Seventeen permanent at the Office of Fokidas at the moment, because there were two casualties. I note that last year's period was supported by a large number of OAEDs, which was not possible this year. I stress this, to see how much care and importance the Ministry of Culture gives to always having a cover, especially in large museums and archaeological sites with great traffic. This year, then, it will take fifteen more guard workers and two cleaners. I must therefore stress that the effort to recruit staff at this time when we are going through is not an easy case. We cannot hire, whenever we need, permanent officials and always seasonalists to follow a procedure through ASPD, which sometimes creates a need for temporary solutions, such as the one we have given now, where we have managed to find the solution to the individual operation of the archaeological site and the museum. I would like to stress here that closing museums and premises one day a week is not something that happens only in our country, but internationally. For example, the museum of Louvre is closed one day, the National Archaeological Museum of Naples, which is connected to Pompeii is closed one day, the Munich Glyptography, with this famous collection, is closed one day. Of course, we fully understand the anxiety of the local society, which is directly linked to its development with the archaeological destination of Delphi, and therefore we are making all these efforts to stay open all week, as are other relevant sites in Greece with great traffic.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, forty-six students and three educational sessions from the General Lyceum of Piraeus. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] For you to know, at the moment you are following the procedure in which each Member is entitled to ask a direct topical question to the Minister or Minister concerned with this question. The Member and the Minister respectively shall develop the subject matter. Mrs. Kefalidou, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u49	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, I have followed you very carefully, and I have told you from the outset that I consider the Ministry's good intention to be given. Is that enough, though? It's such sloppy and so inadequacy that what we're talking about right now is like throwing ashes into the eyes. I say this because we are talking about seasonal recruitment and it is already the end of November. Recruitment approval has been obtained, which is via ASP. Do you know how long it takes for the guard to be in every museum? I will tell you that we will get to the best of cases if everything goes well, without any problem, in January. The winter season begins on 1 November and ends on 31 March. So, let's think about it a little: Can we make it through the winter season that runs? I would point out, because, you know, it sounds very nice what you say, that the Ministry of Culture is about to hire seasonal staff to museums and archaeological sites to stay open and function, as is appropriate in a country like Greece. Sounds really good. But is that so? I'm telling you it's not because they just don't get math out. Seasonal, then, we needed now, at this time. The Ministry's getting approval. It has not yet been put out unless, today, because of the debate, there is also the proclamation ready, which is extremely positive. So we're gonna get through by the middle of January, for sure. And we're not just talking about Delphi. I will tell you that, unfortunately, the same picture exists in Olympia, which only on weekends is not visited. Weeks are, however, the most visited days. Millions have been spent to build the Museum of History of the Olympic Games. My colleague knows why he's in his area. Well, weekends are closed. Not to go to Naxos, which only works Tuesdays and Fridays. And when they have tourism, when people have planned years before they come to see our cultural heritage, you understand how great a problem this lack of staff we are talking about creates. Finally, Minister, who is responsible for the residual operation of museums, shops and refreshments, which do not work in the way they should and have not taken care of them in good time? What about me? Don't you know how long the contracts last? Don't you know that winter hours in museums want personal? Don't you know that from 1 April will begin summer hours 8.00 p.m. to 20.00 p.m. and that's where you'll need a thousand more for guarding? Because we are talking about staff, I would like to remind you that in this Chamber we had also voted to hire two hundred permanent archbishops in 2016. In fact, these two hundred are added to another hundred fifty permanents who have won legal judgments. Why haven't the procedures proceeded? Do you know that in September 2016 their recruitment by the General Accounting Office of the State was approved? Do you know that in July 2017 the final signature was taken and, rather, in some of the Ministry's drawers, you are stirring up the process and yet these people have not been hired, the ministerial decisions have not been made? I'm saying this because I'm supposed to have done a three-year programming. And we learn that there are more than eight hundred permanent staff gaps for daily guards and night guards in the ministry's new establishment plan. How are you going to cover all this? In any case, all this shows that there is an irrationalism in the Ministry of Culture. That is why, Minister, after admitting that during this winter season we lost it, I would like to see whether in the coming summer, starting on April 1, 2018, we will be able to catch up with it and, most importantly, whether what we have experienced this year, namely the lack of timeliness, we will not relive it next year if the Ministry has learned its lesson. So answer us. But answer your colleague, the Minister of Tourism, who says that this year we will have an increase in tourists in our country. He's talking about thirty-five million tourists. And all of these will be visitors in half-closed museums and archaeological sites that remain in operation! Note that. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Answer the tour operators, who say they want to plan at least two years earlier, so that they can have plans and programming. Especially with regard to Delphi - you know it very well - it is a space and unique, but it is combined in tourist packages with one-day or two-day visits to Attica and Olympia.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u50	And if you want to finish this, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u51	Finally, I say this to you - and I say this to the local bodies because they have the uniqueness of living in the dormant landscape, but this also has the corresponding limitations on the opportunities for professional use. These people live exclusively from culture and tourism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, Mrs. Kefalidou. Madam Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u53	Mrs Kefalidou, I imagine that you will have already been informed, but I have to say again, that in order to fill the empty organic seat of permanent prisoners the process of filling forty-seven permanent organic posts in the Occupational Safety and Information Division, Occupational Safety and Fifty-three permanent organic posts in the Occupied Territories Division, has already been approved. The Ministry is already in the process of sending all elements to the AACC to issue the notice for filling these empty organic positions, in conjunction with the new organisation, which we have tabled and on the basis of this organization, will gradually cover these permanent posts. Therefore, the coverage is gradual. We can't have eight hundred people...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u54	Two months, it takes a minimum...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u55	You don't sound, Mrs. Kefalidou. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u56	Excuse me, but I didn't interrupt you. We can't have a dialogue like this. I would like to stress that it is a great obligation for us to keep the spaces open, and I assure you that we are making a great effort to make timely preparations. However, it is not always easy not to have these gaps that require some temporary solutions. The four hundred young workers will enter the next month. Therefore, the winter season is not lost and we should not raise this issue. Also, the tour operators are always informed of the hours of operation of the archaeological sites and museums. As far as you are concerned, that our country is being abstracted internationally, I believe that the biggest issue we should be concerned about our international image is the question of the safety of archaeological sites and museums. We have a great responsibility and I can assure you that both the managers and the workers have a very high sense of responsibility for the safe storage of archaeological sites and museums. We should not relive what happened in Olympia some years ago, namely the robbery of our treasures. So this is a parameter that we must not forget when we often raise issues through media and give the wrong impression of getting a lock on all museums. I would also like to stress the fact that we are very concerned about the well-being of the people in the region where their economy is, in fact, linked to the archaeological site. According to ELSTAT's data, which I can keep in mind, especially in the Fokida area there is an increase of 27.5% in the period January to July 2016, as well as in the corresponding period of 2017. In other words, there is this 27.5% increase. Also, throughout the country there is an increase in traffic in archaeological sites and museums 17% to 19% respectively and an increase of 20% to 22%. This has already been recorded and is a reinforcement of the local society, even if for four or five weeks the archaeological site operates halfway through. This really is being collected by local society, and we should not overlook it. We are therefore interested in the economy in the region and we are making every effort to meet the needs.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u57	Next is the seventh with number 304/15-11-2017 appropriate question for the second cycle of the MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "The investment in the Greek risk of canceling: 75,000 new jobs and 8,2 billion euros will be lost, due to the arts of the Government". Mr. Constantinople has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Mr President. Madam President, first of all I would like to wish you, in the near future, for the last week. Of course, the government on the Greek issue has been sick for over a month and a half and is not coming to answer us. I hope that this process will be completed so that he can come to answer us. And because there are young people here who are watching us and are interested in starting jobs so that they can work, I would like to tell them that the Greek investment is the biggest investment that is currently in Europe. It's in the order of 8.2 billion and it might reach the Olympic Games. It is an investment that will give seventy-five thousand new jobs. Madam Minister, you, as a government, along with the 'LAMDA DEVELOPMENT', namely the investors, signed two conventions. You made the one contract in July 2016 and the validated one in September 2016, which you themselves brought to the House. In this, as one of the two parties, you, as government, set terms and rules with which this investment should work. You would, of course, know that at the time you were in Germany, some people made tough statements about the CSCE. We didn't do it, but Mr. Flambury. And from Mr. Tsipras' office, they had assurances that nothing could change. Of course, Mr. Friend was outside. These are the well-known games that play in SYRIZA to rinse out one story after another. But these were the Prime Minister's announcements. So there are two issues the investor puts today, with which you have brought an agreement. It says that you have failed the terms - you will have seen the letter - which you signed, as a government, both in terms of archaeological and heights. Furthermore, because you who brought the contract change the terms, it raises a question, if the investment can go ahead, so it will work in favour of the Greek interests. And since you say you want the investment to be done, I ask you, did you change the terms? Why did you change the terms of the investment? Is there a matter of implementing the project on the basis of heights and archaeologicals, which you decided to do? I would ask you to let us know, because we have no choice but to talk to each Minister separately, because the government has been in a two-and-a-half months' time - when our group has tabled a question, our group does not come to this House to answer us.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Mr. Constantinople. Come on, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Mr Constantinople, for the question, because you are giving me the opportunity to deal with issues, which are very confusing as they have been. We're talking about terms. Allow me, Mr President, although I am usually not abusing time, because it is a serious matter, to refer to one of the conditions laid down in the decision. These terms generally protect and highlight the scattered antiquities within the airport, based on the archaeological law, which is provided by archaeological law, whether declared or not. Let's take one, one of the terms. The term 1 is about St. Kosmas. It has already been declared since 1960 and redefinition in 2014. He's in company knowledge. The term 2 relates to the burial enclosure, which is transferred from the present position, in which it is transported, which facilitates the investment. Previously, this was a embroidery for the investment. It wasn't to facilitate the investment. It was done in order to find its true position, which was found on the basis of scientific documentation and will thus be transferred to its initial position. The term 3 relates to the ancient quarry, surrounded by a green radius of fifteen meters. It was already known and printed in the company's topographics, Mr. Constantinople. The term 4 relates to the maintenance study of already known temples. The term 5 relates to the interconnection and creation of a cultural route in the metropolitan park, which in essence gives added value to the investment. Generally these terms give added value to the investment, and that knows and has been admitted by the company itself and does not want to ignore it. The term 6 relates to the newer monuments, the Pagoda and the Saarinen building, the former East, which were already preached and their presence was familiar with the investors. The term “residence” means the housing of antiquities provided for in the amending contract that has already been signed by the Government in 2016. The term 8 applies to topographic charts. Terms 9, 10 and 11 relate to studies. The term 12 is the height for which a lot of ink fell. The height, as you may know, is not a responsibility of the Ministry of Culture and Sport, but it is essentially the responsibility of the Ministry of the Environment, which will also be issued by the Presidential Decree. So the term is a potential term, it has a euphoric character and not a binding one, according to the view of the Central Archaeological Council. I'm on my way to term 13. These are excavation work, land or airways, which will be monitored on the basis of the Memorandum. 14, from the first to the second are the other terms, which were already known under the memorandum, and 15 and 16 are standard terms and do not hinder the investment. Therefore, Mr Constantinople, there is no overthrow of the terms, there is no surprise. We believe that this decision does not prevent investment and we believe that at the moment cultural heritage is being protected, but at the same time investment can continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, Minister. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u62	Madam Minister, thank you very much for the detailed questions as you have raised them. I would like to tell you that, in order for there to be credibility between the state that is in contract with a private person, the state cannot govern and change the terms and make a contract. All these issues must be raised in the original contract. You quite rightly said, although, as you will have read, the company itself says of an additional archaeological site. But I am going beyond that, and I am going through something else that you have said, because that is very important today. As you can see, with regard to tensions and focuses, you will remember that in the CSCE they came from Maximos mainly, I would even say warnings that the project must go ahead. You were gone, but I think you read them. They said that they should go ahead because, as you can see, there is Mrs Vlazaki in the CAS. Mrs Vlazaki is not there either as an archaeologist or as a member of a movement. It is appointed by the political leadership, like you, and has political responsibilities for how the investment should go ahead and it must keep up with what is signed by the state, the government, together with any individual. I wanted to say that today you have raised a subject which is very different to the issues that are being raised. I think we'll all hear them. As to what you have said about the level, firstly, you do not seem to have had the power, but in any case you have said it and it has no binding effect. This is very important. The second is that you're sending us a question again to the Ministry of the Environment. It's okay. We'll do the Ministry of the Environment. Because the government doesn't come overall, it sends us to each other. But this is the first time, Minister, that the government has said in public or, at any rate, the media - but you could say so publicly with a statement from you - that the level is not binding. You know what? For the President-in-Office's decree to come in the next few years, I think you know that well, in December, it cannot be signed, as the procedures go. So the bulldozers Mr. Flampoures was saying will be late, we will be caught in winter. And because I think that everyone in this project wants to start to help our country, young people to find work, today came out one of those who will help to complete the project and said that the next time will increase production, for example, by 70% cement on the basis of this project. So because we are interested in not going to the thirty-five million tourists, and because you know that on the basis of the Greek, two million more a year will come for this great investment, I would like to believe, Minister, that today you have made something clear and we will also go to the Minister for the Environment, which will help to move forward with this great investment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, Mr. Constantinople. Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u64	Thank you. Because you have touched on my absence twice during the Councils at issue, I would like to point out that I was here. So I was taking the plane from Germany, coming and leaving as soon as the C.R.D. ended. That's all three times. So I have not neglected my duties. Because you said it and because it's written, it's an opportunity from this position to answer it. Furthermore, as regards the issue of the CSCE decision on the small declaration of a number of three hundred acres in the investment, I would like to stress that there is a small historical on this. You know that, I guess. There were three proposals, one larger of the voyage, one less than seven hundred acres and one less than three hundred acres. There was an in-depth discussion of these three proposals. I would like to stress here that the CSCE, through a very polite climate from extreme voices from all directions, has succeeded with soberness, with a strong sense of duty and with scientific adequacy, to decide and prefer the least of these three suggestions, which in fact characterises the areas that were not, in any case, expected to be exploited by the company. We are talking specifically about the area of the tram train station, which in any case did not exist within the intentions of the development, the top of Lofus Hasani. I can assure you, because I have read all the minutes, that there has been a very thorough discussion about the Hasani Hill and it has been decided that only the top of the hill will be called, as it is unclear to the hill boundaries, mainly due to the interventions made in the Olympic Games. Also, ‘Zone A’ has not been declared, which means that construction is not inhibited. The designation does not prevent construction in the area. I would therefore like here to express my appreciation to the Central Archaeological Council for this very calm and with a sense of duty in order to protect both the cultural heritage and the continuity of the investment. The CSCE is an independent advisory body. I would like to say that, because perhaps people don't know. It is composed of scientists of unknown prestige, architects, political engineers and archaeologists and is a representative of the Law Council of the State. Therefore, as you can see, this does not prevent the continuation of the investment. After all, according to recent statements by the representative of the ‘Lamda Development’, the company is ready to start the project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u66	Mr President, could I have the floor for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u67	Mr. Loverdos, first we wish you many years.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u68	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u69	Mr. Loverdo, tell me what you'd like. I suspect, of course, but know that if it is about your question, I will interrupt you. But tell us for a minute what you want and we'll talk about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u70	Mr President, because I am in the second cycle and at the same time meets the Ethics Committee on Immunities and I have the unpleasant duty to be there, replacing Mr Papatheodorou for today because of the philosopher of St. Andreas Patras, I would ask you very much now to address the deferred questions so that...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u71	I've already delivered yours.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u72	I was upstairs, I came down and I'm going back. Please, very much for mine, as long as I have the right, as we function customarily, give me for a minute to say something about the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u73	You just know that there is an answer letter to you on a certain date.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u74	I know that very well.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u75	So you normally don't have right now...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u76	I have the possibility, and I'll explain why. Please very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u77	Here, then, you have the floor for a minute. Please be brief. If we get out of the process, you know I won't leave it like that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u78	We won't get away from it at all. Mr President, I have said on several occasions to other ministries about a ministry which has many ministers - one minister, one Deputy and two Deputy Secretarys - that it has the ability and the luxury, especially in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on many journeys by the ministers, to present to parliamentary control another member of the Ministry - I mean a political official - and to give answers. It has even happened with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs months ago when I asked the Minister and the Deputy Minister answered me. When I was the State Secretary at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, I remember, Mr President, that many Members with some years of experience in this Parliament did not accept a State Secretary responding to the position of the Minister - I do not have such problems - and they were making a fuss because they are not here as Minister. But the Minister must be in India, he must be anywhere, he has his duty. I totally understand that because I have the experience. I have no problem with Mr. Catrugalos coming, Mr. Quick or Mr. Amanatidis coming, but not to come is a matter. And since, next week, the Minister will be absent and my questions will not be simple, I would like to ask the Bureau to convey my request to the Foreign Ministry next time to be one of the State Secretarys to take the floor. After all, Mr President, and with this in mind, I should like to draw attention to the documents submitted by Mr Kammens concerning the Ministry of Foreign Affairs last Monday, as I showed yesterday and today, it appears that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs knew everything about the convention with the Saudis. And - that's my last sentence - the famous mediator melted his shoes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u79	But we are escaping, Mr Loverdo, not discussing the substance of the question. Your message is clear. He'll be transferred to the Ministry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u80	I'm done, listen to me, it's my last sentence. The famous mediator has shaped the contract, which Mr Kotzias finally signed. The Minister filed it and I redeem it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u81	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u82	But please, because...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u83	Mr. Loverdo, please. We're starting at the moment and you're talking about the substance. We can't do that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u84	Listen to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u85	I left you on the question, you spoke about the procedure. And now, at the moment, we are entering the essence of the debate and you want to say something about the question. It is not about the procedure, but it is not about the procedure, and you know it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u86	Mr President, I would like to say something about you. When we raise questions about the presence of the Ministries here, the President-in-Office, not only you, everyone, says - this observation they understand - that the Bureau has made efforts and will take them to the ministers. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u87	That's right, and that's gonna happen. We cannot go into the substance and, above all, the question you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u88	The Bureau cannot take the view that it has completed its duties by mentioning in the Chamber that it understands Members' objections.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u89	But there's also a letter from the Ministry, which has given you an alternative for Mr. Kotzias to come and answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u90	You don't understand what I'm saying to you. Then let me understand, so you can answer me. The President-in-Office says they understand the problem. It is not a question of understanding the problem. I therefore ask you to pass on the request from a member of the National Representation. We must not expect the Minister to be in Greece after 15 days. I would ask you to have the Deputy Minister or one of the two Secretarys come next Thursday to have this debate finally concluded.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u91	But it's gonna be what you said. We'll say it. We'll transfer it. From that point on, the Minister will take over on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u92	Thank you. But I want to know and I want to be sure that you will be transferring it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u93	I'll carry it, you'll be sure of it. Happy birthday again. Good morning.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u95	Mr Spirtzi, before we begin with your last question, you will allow me to read out the questions that will not be discussed because of the impediments of the relevant ministers, because two of them are at the CED in Ioannina. The second, with number 399/24-11-2017, timely question of the first cycle of the New Democracy MP Kilkis Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgiodas to the Minister of Administrative Reconstruction, on the subject: "Incomplete and fragmented the results of the Government on digital organograms", will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister. The second question with number 415/16-10-2017 question of the circle of petitions and questions by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMARKKKKOS KEGROGlou to the Minister of Administrative Reconstruction, concerning the mobilisation of members of one-parent families in the recruitment procedures through PAP and in the notices of L.2643/1998, will not be discussed due to a blockade by Minister Gerovasili. In addition, Mr Skourletis will be in Ioannina for the CEDEFOP conference, and therefore the third with number 394/22-11-2017 a topical question for the Attica MP of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Ioannis Giokas to the Minister of the Interior, on the disasters of floods in Western Attica and the necessary flood protection in Attica, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister. The fourth, with number 476/28-11-2017, topical question by the Member of Parliament, Aetolokarnania, of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr. Nikolaos Moraitis, to the Minister of Interior, on the lack of staff and equipment in the Forest of Amphisia, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. The fourth question under number 465/27-11-2017 in the first cycle of the Athens People's Association - Golden Dawn, Eleni Zaroulia, to the Minister of Home Affairs, on the subject: "until immunity arrives and the coverage of the criminal activity of left-wing gangs at universities, it will not be discussed because of the impediment of the Minister of the Interior, Mr. Nicholas Toska, because of misappropriated obligations. Finally, the first question with number 182/05-10-2017 question of the circle of petitions and questions by the Member of Parliament Drama of the New Democracy. Dimitrios Kyriazides to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the intentions of the Ministry to review the framework of financial support for the social care structures of the beneficiaries themselves, will not be discussed due to a meeting of the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity Mr.Theanos Fotou with the institutions. For all the above, there is also a letter from the Secretariat of the Government. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after taking part in the educational programme of the "Democracy Workshop" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, nineteen students and students and a teacher from the 21st Municipal School of Kallithea. The House welcomes you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u96	You will allow me, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u97	Here you go, Mr. Cryazides, tell us.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u98	Mr President, I would like to accept that it is indeed a cause for meeting with the Troikas, which Mrs Fotio is not present. However, I would like to say to you, Mr President, that since April I have been repeating this particular question, which has now come to be a topical question. Today I was expecting an answer. At that time, Mr President, I had made the reference to the problem arising from the lack of staff, the lack of funding for the social forms of construction in Drama. I have pointed out this risk. Unfortunately, I was forced again, Mr President, to raise the issue, because they started to be 'exported' from the orphanage, from the home of the AME children, because they were not staffed and not financed. Since April, I have pointed out this risk. But this was not understood or understood by the government. On the government side, the needs of sensitive social groups, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, would be covered. In practice, however, we did not see it. I was expecting an answer today, which I unfortunately do not have.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u99	It's clear what you're saying. Mr. Cryazides, you will necessarily follow the re-entrustment procedure. We enter the last question of today's procedure, in the eighth under number 261/10-11-2017 the second time question of the Second Cycle of the New Democracy MP Mr. Dimitrios Kyriazides to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport on the question of the road connection between Drama and Egnatia Road and the vertical axes. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for two minutes to develop your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u100	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you will allow me, after about three years, at last we are here and I would like to believe in a straight position on a huge issue concerning my place. I shall avoid the introductory part of the question, which may even be obsolete. I do not know the developments, but I mentioned the enthusiasm of the suggestion that there is no political will on the part of the government to carry out this project, in the sense of the road isolation of Drama from the rest of the country. I would ask you, Mr President, to add the time of the prototype. I asked specific questions, Mr Minister: what will happen in the course of the studies already delivered? Will the work of building the Drama - Amphipolis section proceed and when? Thirdly, with regard to the answers I have received from time to time in my previous question, progress has been made on the issue of vertical axles as a whole and what is that? When will the projects ultimately be implemented? Those were the questions. I'm waiting for your answers. I hope there will be a satisfaction in this huge issue involving a prefecture isolated.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u101	We thank Mr Kyriazides and his respect for time. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u102	Mr President, thank you too. I do not respond to the development of the reasoning you have in the timely question, although I have a lot to say. I'm going straight to the point. These roads, like many in the whole country, my dear fellow Member, are a classic example of both the clandestineness and the total lack of serious planning that characterised the way the projects were in our country. We have motorways without vertical axes, without connections to cities, ports and airports, with parts without beginning and finally with zero consultation with local society. You know very well that in the region of Eastern Macedonia and Thrace there are two completely distinct ones - if you like - visas. There is the view of the regional council and the region that puts the burden on the road axis Serres - Drama - Kavala for other reasons and the view of most of the bodies in the subregion of Drama to become the street of Drama - Amphipolis. We recognise that both roads serve different needs and need to be made. But to do so, we must have studying maturities. We have different levels of planning on two roads and different problems. For the specific road from Drama to Amphipolis, the situation of the studies is as follows: We have the part of the south-east bypass of Drama, four kilometres long, which is responsible for the "EGNATIA DUE". The preliminary studies of the unequal nodes and the side road were prepared and approved to connect the bypass of Drama to the axes of Drama - Amphipolis and Drama - Kavala, which has been approved - EUR 850,000 for the project's agreement on the study maturation. For the section from Drama to Paleokome, i.e. Drama - Mavroulouki - Paleokome, which is thirty-nine kilometers long, the company "EGNATIA LODOS" has received part of the studies carried out under the responsibility of other bodies, that is, the region and earlier of the Ministry, until it goes to the company "EGNATIA IDO" and awaits the other studies under and approved. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] The studies completed are environmental impact studies, final study, hydraulic studies and five final technical studies. The final studies of 10 techniques are pending. There is still no approval of the register and the labelling and safety studies have not been carried out. Finally, the Paleokkomi - Amphipolis section is about 10 kilometres long. A road study on new engravings, east of the existing road, i.e. to the subordinates of the Pangea mountain, is required in order to implement the homogenisation of the cross section and the remaining characteristics of that subsection with the previous subsection on the axis. This section is certain that there will be delays if the work necessary for the archaeological work in the region does not take precedence, but is not a critical part, as there is an existing alternative route. We believe that these studies must go ahead and that is what we will do. In particular, a technical consultant has been hired to assist in the procedures for the maturation of the remaining studies. Don't make your hand like that, because I'll start drawing you maps on what's happened in the past few years...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u103	Get out, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u104	Don't. Move your hand, Mr. Cryazides.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u105	Don't start dialogue, please. Mr. Cryazides, let the Minister finish. Minister, you have a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u106	Mr President, it is a tragic thing to do.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u107	Finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u108	We have a road called "Egnatia Street" with its problems and construction and operation, as we found it...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u109	We're talking about the vertical axis, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u110	Mr. Cryazides, let the Minister finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u111	We have a wonderful road that has left all the areas, which are not crossing, outside - whether it is a critical infrastructure, whether it is a port, a tourist area or a city that the Egnatia Road does not cross - and they also ask for the change. We have more than fifteen years of project studies being broken so that we do not have a single study of vertical axes. And they come and say, "When will the works finally finally be done?" Well, we'll tell you what we're planning to do. The logic of Mavroyaluros "and road we will also make sea we will bring" end! Secondly, then, we have arranged for it to be done, it is to entrust the remaining studies for the thirty kilometres of the second section to a scholar. Our aim is to complete the study maturation immediately and immediately thereafter the cost-benefit studies will follow to investigate the viability of the project, so as to start the process of finding funding for the construction of the project. I want - if I may - a minute to clarify something, so that the region can also end populism: in order to make a project and, now, to be financed from the European Commission's money, from the new ESDP, the project must be sustainable. If it is not sustainable we cannot use money from there and this is one of the major crimes that have been committed in the review and reduction of the physical object of motorways. If we cannot prove the viability of a project, then it must be financed through the Public Investment Programme - which, as you know, the cost of these projects, especially for the two axes of Drama, for which I can immediately have an approach to how much they cost and in my second speech, is such that they cannot be financed as a whole by the Ministry's Public Investment Programme - or by lending from either the European Investment Bank or elsewhere. So we're committed to direct studying of the highways and the vertical axes of Drama.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u112	If you would like, Minister, please complete, because we've already reached eight minutes. You've got a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u113	I am done, Mr President, and I am sorry. Don't move your hands, though. Because these studies began a few decades ago.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u114	That's clear. Mr. Kyriazidis will now have the right to develop and say what he wants.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u115	Yeah. I also said to avoid putting myself on the question's thinking, which says we're afraid of coming to answer. That refers to the rationale. At a time when the one date Mr Kyriazidis mentioned I was in Sofia, the second one had a Ministerial Council that week, I was in Luxembourg the third. For God's sake! If nothing else, don't write these.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u116	It became clear, Minister. Here, Mr. Cryazides, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u117	Minister, I expect you to respond more seriously and responsibly to us. And you disappointed us and you caused us. I didn't mention my protology about your absence, but...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u118	But you're writing it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u119	...it's not a recent fact. In a timely question two years ago, at the very same time, Mr Sguridis answered, to come to what you are saying today and which nothing to do with reality, unless, indeed, it is so paralysed and you don't care about this region. We have to bring you back to reality and see who it is. So Mr Sguridis answered my corresponding question that by March the Drama Kavala studies will be over. I'll give you the minutes and the answer. Regarding Drama - Amphipolis in July 2016. What did you do? You said there was no design. And your design was given a specific direction with the take-up of the whole project by the "EGENATIO WEBSITE S.A." was given to you and to ensure that the relevant line was given to you. You confess to that in your answer. When is that? In March 2017. And what do you think? You say that after so many extensions I have made - in June 2015, end of 2015, in June 2016, end of 2016, by February 17, 2017, we were now going to finish the studies. And now you say to us: 'if we find funding'. It was guaranteed the amount, which was also given in addition by the increase in VAT. We do have your answer at the same time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u120	Give it to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u121	Of course, I'll deliver them to you. Today you're lying. I don't know why. These are your texts, Minister. And what do you say beyond that? You say that the delays that have been presented are not the responsibility of the contractor, it is our responsibility. It's your responsibility, Minister. You confess to that in your answer. So leave them here today. You have nothing to tell us and you have come here today in a way and you are causing our intelligence. That's the bad thing. You should have asked for an apology because three years now you have not done anything. We met at your Ministry collectively and you told us the same thing Mr Sguridis said that the studies would have finished - one part - in March 2016 and the other in July 2016. We will be in 2018, any minute, and you tell us: 'If we find funding'. All of this is documented. It is your responsibility, because public expenditure will become the road, the vertical axis of Drama - Amphipolis, associated with E61. You haven't done anything, and you tell us that this is a cheating dream, it'll end in 2050. That's what you're answering. So you haven't done anything. You haven't ensured anything. You come back in this way to challenge us without answering. You have started and arrived at the maturation of the studies, when the relevant line is secured, unless the line in question has been assigned to it elsewhere or you have counted it against the surplus, so that it can be measured. Unfortunately, Drama does not expect any development for all of this, and unfortunately you are responsible, Minister, because it does not have the political will to connect Drama to the vertical axis, to the trunk of the rest of Greece, having a prefecture isolated. You are apologising because after three years you have not taken a study measure, a street measure. With regard to the funding you said through the funds and the planning by Mr Sguridis answers: "Yes, all this has been guaranteed, an Interministerial Committee has been set up with universities, in consultation with the European Bank, the relevant funds have been found through packages and all this is a matter of time to be implemented." After three years you have not done anything and it has come down, Mr President... Mr. President, can you hear me?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u122	I can hear you, Mr. Cryazides, clearly. You need to finish because you're in five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u123	Mr President, I did not exhaust the first year. The Minister spoke twice and twice a year. Let me say and what exactly happens with the danger, in the sense of moving goods and human resources from a road dangerous. It delays and contributes to the isolation and non-development of the site to a very large extent, but also to the wheels. It has become a hundred and forty-four traffic accidents, with twenty-two wounded, dead, because road, in the hope that it will be built, has been completely abandoned. It is the government's responsibility because it does not contribute in this direction.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u124	Finish it, Mr. Cryazides.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u125	The government must apologise in this respect, because unfortunately it has abandoned everything in connection with the linking of Drama to the roadblock of the rest of the country. It is a pity, Minister, because today we have waited - frankly I say this - that you would have something to say to us that, in any case, projects are going on and will be implemented. You're transferring us every little bit and a little bit on other dates. You have now taken us to the end of 2018 for the studies and the funding, of course, will end up with the responsibility and the backs of New Democracy as a next government.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u126	Thank you, Mr. Cryazides. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u127	Mr President, if Mr Kyriazidis wants to continue to develop his thinking, I am here, I have no problem of time. Mr Kyriazidis, however, there are schools here and you remind me when we were young in primary school and said that beautiful poem: 'In the Fishes on the whole black back'.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u128	We're on our own.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u129	Just like that, Mr. Cryazides, there's the placement...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u130	Mr. Cryazides, you don't sound. The Minister didn't interrupt you. So you respect him, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u131	He did. He's been doing a lot of it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u132	That's exactly the placement...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u133	And you, Minister, do not cause, because you understand...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u134	No, I challenge it because I challenge it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u135	Yeah, but we'll start now...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u136	If I'm not a jewel, stop me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u137	Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u138	So, just as, in the Second Municipality, we've been saying the poem "In the Fishes on the whole black back", so you've been continuing to say the same poem in the last sixty years, mocking the citizens of all of Greece. You walk around the regions of Greece, when you were in the government, you were walking around and you were already feeding...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u139	I'm talking about Drama, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u140	And for Drama, what you told them was a drama.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u141	You don't sound, Mr. Cryazides.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u142	Let me get you the paperwork. What can we do now?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u143	For Drama, Mr. Kyriazides, unfortunately, you were dramatized! You commissioned this road to three different bodies. In the district, Egnatia, the Ministry to study a road. Each study had a different section. Another part of the study had LEAs, it didn't have it elsewhere.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u144	A Joint Ministerial Decision was signed in 2013, ‘ENGINATIA S.A.’.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u145	For God's sake!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u146	Mr. Cryazides, you don't sound. The Minister didn't interrupt you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u147	I said, if you want, continue to develop your thinking. You don't want to. Others, then, had been done by one body to study the road with another section and with LA, elsewhere had no LEA. In Amphipolis you would find Alexander the Great, and you obviously stopped. On Drama Street - Kavala the world knows that the terrible studies you have conducted predicted will pass through the protected forest with incredible...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u148	I'm sorry, Minister, I'm going to have to interrupt you to make an announcement, because then the meeting will be concluded. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, fifty-four students and students and four educational sessions from the 7th Kavalas High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u149	We have schools from the area, so they can testify. On Drama - Kavala road, then, the dreadful engraving you thought, passed through the protected forest. It is not just legislation, it is reactions to protect it. So, obviously, this department cannot have a curriculum maturity. How did you guys see that you had it all taken care of? Resources you hadn't committed. How did you do the plays? You're Houdini? And because, Mr President, things are being heard here and put into the government's mouth, this is the answer by 23 March. I'll read exactly what he says. "Egnatia Street", neither Spirtz nor Sguridis nor anyone...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u150	I have Mr Sguride's answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u151	Evidently Mr Sguridis' answer was reading the response of the responsible body, namely, the company 'Egnatia', and he says - and you have the document from the company 'Egnatia' - to understand what the poem says to us every time, each Member of the New Democracy is like. "For the bypass section "Drama - Mavroulouki - Paleokomi", as he says, "subject to the inclusion of relevant expenditure in a financial programme. For the last subsection ‘Palokomis – Amphipolis’ if funding is provided, it will be awarded by means of a tender for a road recognition study, which will deal with a new development in more detail on the existing road. So, Mr Kyriazidis, what we responded to you in March is going on in very difficult economic times. No more poems to the Greek people, 'on the whole black back'. They're going this from us at least. That is why you will never go out again, because you have flammed the Greek people with lies, with works that you would have done and never did, with works that you would have finished and never finished, with expropriations that you did after ten years, with supposedly studying maturities that never existed and so on. And Drama knows all about that. Mr President, I would like to show a typical example of the areas which Egnatia does not go through. Here we have a road - to have it in your office to calm down the works of the New Democracy - that starts with a field and ends in a field.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u152	Let's see yours when we're gonna burn them down.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u153	The world that uses them all over Greece is enthusiastic. It's awesome. We should have it. I'll put it in my office. We're talking about a road! Take them and give them to Mr. Cryazides. Enjoy them!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u154	As you can see, they don't look exactly, but you file them in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u155	Yes, I'm filing them and getting a copy. I can give it to a bigger one. I'm going to print them in on a shooter. And let's go see what we did on the second part of the question with the vertical axes. We're done with the vertical axis in the Rhodope Antiregion, we're done - while you had ten years stuck - with that of Evros.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u156	Will you tell us about the Peloponnese now?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u157	In your question, you say about the vertical axes of Egnatia. For Drama, I've answered you. Studying maturity. We found money for the first division and the second one that's 30 miles [30 km] to grow. We start the I.D. and preliminary study for the last section that you didn't find Alexander the Great in Amphipolis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u158	That's what you said in 2015.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u159	Mr. Cryazides, you are not listening and you are not respecting the Minister. You don't give him the right to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u160	This is the style of the New Democracy policy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u161	He has not interrupted you, and I must acknowledge it to the Minister. As long as you were talking, he would listen carefully. Complete, Minister, because we are getting away from time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u162	Thank you. And then we'll do, Mr. Kyriazidis, and you'll learn that, too, a sustainability study. If there is no sustainability study, which proves that the project is sustainable, you will continue - as you have done for sixty years - to mock the people of Drama. You will continue to mock the citizens of Drama.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u163	So being isolated is sustainable?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u164	Mr. Cryazides, you don't sound. You're embarrassing me. I have commented on you so many times. Please. Please. Continue, Minister, and if you want to finish, because we have escaped and we have to hand over the Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u165	Mr Kyriazidis, Mr President, and a large part of the populist part of the New Democracy party, and not only, he considers that we need to move Drama to be on the Egnatia. It can't be done. They tell me the same thing about the railroad. If you can move the Drama, you, with pleasure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u166	Leave her where she is, abandoned.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u167	You've done it like this for decades now. You have set the aim of Drama not only in name but in practice also to make it a drama and ask for the change. Now we're going to Rhodope...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u168	Minister, I'm sorry to finish this, please. We must deliver the House on the special agenda.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u169	I shall conclude, Mr President. The vertical axis was completed in Rhodope. In Evros after decades the works had been stuck with downfall contractors and with total immobility, the vertical axis as a whole is finally completed. In Xanthi we have a curriculum maturity and the auctioning of the vertical axis in Antiregion Xanthi begins. And then we will have the two curriculum maturities that connect Drama and Amphipolis and Kavala, the sustainability studies and the finding of resources for the project. And, of course, the same thing happened with the country's connections to Kastoria, which we inaugurated and completed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u170	Thank you, Minister. I have to say you challenged him to answer. But from there, let's finish. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. We will suspend the sitting and continue at 11.30 p.m. with the special agenda for immunity.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u171	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. We enter the SPECIFIC FACILITY ORGANIZATION Requests for the waiver of immunity of MPs: discussion and decision, in accordance with Rule 62 of the Constitution and Rule 83 of the Rules of Procedure of Parliament, on applications for waiver of immunity from Members of Parliament of Mr Paul Paul Polakis (four procedural proceedings), Spyridon - Adonidos Georgiadis and Vasiliou Yoyakas. The relevant Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics announced its report on 24-11-2017, according to which the members of the Committee proposed by a majority that Mr Paul Paul Paul Paul Polakis should not be removed in all four cases. The relevant Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics announced its report on 24-11-2017, according to which the members of the Committee proposed by a majority that Mr Spyridon-Adonidos Georgiadis should not be lifted. The relevant Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics announced its report on 24-11-2017, according to which members of the Committee proposed by a majority that Mr Yoyaka's absence of immunity should not be lifted. Under Rule 83 of the Rules of Procedure, the House does not enter the substance of the cases, but is only investigated if the act in respect of which the waiver of immunity is sought is linked to the parliamentary or political activity of the Member, or to the prosecution or prosecution or the clemency conceals political feasibility. Also in accordance with Rule 83(7) of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, the Parliament shall decide by raising the hand or rest on the request of the Public Prosecutor, in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 108(1)(b). The floor shall always be given, on request, to the Member to whom the request relates and to the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups or their alternates. I would remind you that, in accordance with the decision of the Conference of Presidents on 23 March 2005, we have accepted on applications for waiver of immunity, the House has decided by roll-call vote and by roll-call vote. The vote in which each fellow Member lists his name, his constituency and his parliamentary group will be registered in the respective Minutes. That is how we respond to the provisions of Rule 83 of the Rules of Procedure, which requires a clear vote. After the debate on the cases of today's special agenda is concluded, we shall proceed to a roll-call vote, as I have described. The first, the second, the third and the fourth cases relate to Mr Paulo Polakis. The fifth case concerns Mr Spyridon-Adoni Georgiadis. The sixth case concerns Mr Vassiliou Yoyaka. Is there a colleague on the first request asking for the floor under Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure? Nobody. Is there a colleague on the second request asking for the floor under Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure? Nobody. Is there a colleague on the third request asking for the floor under Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure? Nobody. Is there a colleague on the fourth request asking for the floor under Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure? Nobody. Is there a colleague on the fifth request asking for the floor under Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure? Nobody. Is there a colleague on the sixth request asking for the floor under Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u172	Can I have the floor, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u173	Here, Mr. Yoyaka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u174	This is an additional statement that I was asked to withdraw my decision, as Prefect of Thesprotia, in 2007, where environmental conditions had been approved for the establishment and operation of a mixing plant and packaging of mineral oils and six overhead tanks. The revocation took place, due to the new figures presented by the Municipality of Syvoton, where this unit would be active, the strong reaction of the local residents, because it is a major tourist area, as well as press releases that said the area would become Scaramagas. All of this was done by suggesting services from the building section. I would like to say that the whole procedure has been dealt with in other courts, it has also been held in the Council of State and there is no question. From there on, I am at the disposal of the House, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u175	Thank you very much for the clarifications, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, there will be a roll-call vote on this item. A list has been drawn up with the names of colleagues for requesting the waiver of immunity. Every colleague will vote next to the Members' names on whom the waiver of immunity is sought. Anyone who votes in favour of the waiver of immunity will take note of the name of the Member whose immunity is called upon to waive the word 'NAI'. Any colleague who votes against the waiver of immunity will take note of the name of the Member whose immunity is being sought to waive the word 'OH'. Any colleague who refuses to vote will take note next to the name of the Member whose immunity is called upon to be lifted, the word 'PARON'. You have been distributed and white notes. Every Member of Parliament will be named, his constituency and the parliamentary group to which he belongs, and will sign it, because the vote is rolled out in accordance with Rule 72 of the Rules of Procedure. Subsequently, with his name on the list of colleagues, he will deliver the ballot to colleagues Mario Katsis from SYRIZA and Apostolos Vésiropoulos from New Democracy, who will sign it and announce that the MP has voted. After the end of the vote there will be a counting of the votes by the Members I have mentioned, as will be the result of the ballots, which will be recorded together with the protocol of vote in the Minutes of today's sitting. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u176	So the House unanimously agreed. Finally, I would like to inform you that letters or faxes have been sent to the Bureau by colleagues, pursuant to Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure, to which Members refer. These votes will be announced and taken into account in the count, which will be followed. Parliamentarians are called on the list: Mr Anastasia Gara by SYRIZA and Mr Dimitrios Kyriazides from New Democracy. Please start reading the directory.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u177	Is there a colleague who didn't hear his name? Nobody. The sealed letters, which were sent to the Bureau by colleagues, in accordance with Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure, will be recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u178	Ladies and gentlemen, the vote is adjourned and I would ask the voters to take the counting and sorting of the ballots and exporting the result.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u179	Ladies and gentlemen, before I announce the result of the vote, there is a request for permission from Parliament's work. MEP Mr. Konstantinos Skrekas asks for permission from a short-day absence abroad from 2-2-2017 to 9-12-2017. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u180	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of a roll-call vote on the request for waiver of immunity from Members of Parliament. A total of 154 Members voted. On the first case by Mr Paul Polakis: In support of the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'NAH', 9 Members voted. They voted against the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'OH', as they voted 139 MPs. They voted for 5 MPs. Undone 1. The request of the Public Prosecutor is therefore rejected. [[The protocol and the roll-calls of the roll-call vote shall be recorded in the Minutes and shall be as follows:]] [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[Insert Protocol p. 104a and 104b ballots]] On the second case by Mr Paul Paul Polakis: In support of the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'NAH', 9 Members voted. They voted against the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'OH', as they voted 139 MPs. They voted for 5 MPs. Undone 1. The request of the Public Prosecutor is therefore rejected. On the third case by Mr Paul Paul Polakis: In support of the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'NAH', 9 Members voted. They voted against the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'OH', as they voted 139 MPs. They voted for 5 MPs. Undone 1. The request of the Public Prosecutor is therefore rejected. On the fourth case by Mr Paul Polakis: In support of the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'NAH', 9 Members voted. They voted against the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'OH', as they voted 139 MPs. They voted for 5 MPs. Undone 1. The request of the Public Prosecutor is therefore rejected. On the case of Mr Spyridon - Adonidos Georgiadis: In support of the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'NAH', five Members voted. On the question of immunity, i.e. 'NO', they voted 134 Members. They voted for 14 MPs. Undone 1. The request of the Public Prosecutor is therefore rejected. In the case of Mr Vassiliou Yoyaka: In support of the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'NAH', five Members voted. Against the abolition of immunity, i.e. 'NO', they voted 147 Members. Vote "PARTS" 1 Member. Undone 1. The request of the Public Prosecutor is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u181	Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-30-S1-commons.u182	With the consent of the House at 12.46' the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday, December 1st, 2017 at 10 a.m., on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
