ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-01-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent question report of Monday, 4 September 2017. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 1332/28-8-2017 by the Member of the Dodecanese Coalition of the Radical Left, Elias Kamaterou, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: “Subsequently based on the old history of a building”. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No 1324/22-8-2017, by MP Kavala of the New Democracy Mr Nikolaos Panagiotopoulos to the Minister of Health, about the coverage of the service needs of the Department of Nuclear Medicine of the General Hospital of Kavala. 3. The 1359/29-8-2017 topical question of Attica's MEP from the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Giokas to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, concerning emergency measures in the schools of Acharnes and Violence. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by No 1325/22-8-2017 of the New Democracy MP, Dimitrios Kyriazides, to the Minister of Health, about the oncological Clinic at the General Hospital of Drama. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by number 1361/29-8-2017, by MP Lesvos of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Stavros Tassos, to the Minister of Health, on "Problems in the functioning of the Limnos Hospital". 3. The 1294/21-8-2017 topical question by MP Magnesia of New Democracy Mr Christos Boukorous to the Minister of Finance about the full and effective exploitation of the Panthessalian Stadium in Volos. 4. The question by No 1219-12-7-2017 of the Member of Parliament of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Koutsoukos to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The commitments to the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the prerequisites for the evaluation without informing Parliament." 5. The Question No 1251/18-7-2017 by F' Vice-President of Parliament and Member of Parliament Laris of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.George Lamproulis to the Minister of Health, concerning the non-payment of employees of the company "SYKOS PM". & SIA E.E.’ at Larissa University Hospital. 6. The question by No 1246/18-7-2017 of the Member of Parliament for the Representation of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Konstantinos Barriotas to the Minister of Health, on the topic: "No need for monitoring and evaluation of the need for channels, waterways and airspace of EKAB". 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The 1119/3-7-2017 topical question by H' Vice-President of Parliament and Member of Parliament II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Finance regarding the theft of electricity. 8. The Question No 1032/16-6/2017 by H' Vice President of the Parliament and MP Mr Piraeus II of the Independent Greeks Mr Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Finance regarding the bet companies. 9. The Question No 1026-16-2017 by the Independent MEP Mr. Dimitrios Koukoutsis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The perspective and needs of the international airport Kalamata". 10. The Question by MP Halkidiki of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr.Save Vlachos to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Missures of ambulances in the Halkidiki Prefecture put the lives of citizens at risk". 11. The current question by No 923/1-6/2017 of the Member of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Pappas to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: “Following the “Tax of the nation””. 12. The question raised by Mr Georgios Amyras at number 931/2-6-2017, concerning the 'SIEMENS' case. 13. Observations of the Court of Justice The 1181/7-7-2017 topical question by MP II of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdus to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Application of measures in favour of the small savers who lost their money with the debt cut in 2012". 14. Observed. The Question No 948/6-2017 by MP II Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Sakis Vardalis to the Minister of Finance about the Greek Vehicle Industry "EL.B.O. A.B.E.’ 15. The question raised by Mr Georgios Styriou, Member of Parliament, Mr Georgios Styriou, Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on "A loan of EUR 138 million from the European Investment Bank (EIB) for the construction and renovation of buildings and facilities in PI". 16. Observations of the Committee of the Regions The question by No 1257/21-7-2017 of Independent MEP 2 of Athens Mr. Theocharis (Haris) Theocharis to the Minister of Finance concerning the taxation of public benefits and charitable institutions. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question referred for a preliminary ruling under No 5958/576/30-5-2017 by the Independent MEP Mr. Georgios-Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Finance on the subject: "Are alternatives or not to avoid a new reduction in pension expenditure with the latter on the basis of Article 4472/2017?" Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS Five of these are the topical and urgent questions that will be discussed in today's sitting. We will begin with the second with number 1322/22-8-2017, a timely question for the first time in the New Democracy MP Evros Anastasios Prussakis to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the subject: “Samothraki has been cut off during a tourist season! In despair, residents, tourists and businessmen in general!'. The question will be answered by Mr. Kurublis. Here, Mr President, you have the floor for two minutes for your prototype and the development of the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-01-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. [[At this point Mr Georgios Dimitrios Karras presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Minister, Samothraki lived a warm summer this year, but not because of the tourist movement, but because under the responsibility of your Ministry she stayed the island with a boat and even a day and a half without a connection to the capital of Evros, Alexandroupolis. I have had to table a timely question in order to activate your Ministry and exert pressure through parliamentary control and also to raise local society, as expressed by the mayor of the island, as well as by the institutions and bodies of the region. You were not moved and did not entertain the agony of all these people. And we're talking about an extreme area that's been trying to improve its tourist profile even more in recent years. Why, Minister, has there not been proper planning on your part so that we do not face such problems? Your ministry hasn't been activated. The two requested licences were not issued as regards the launching of two highway vessels on Alexandroupolis - Samothrace. And I ask you, Minister, if you really have planned from now on that problem that Evros - Thrace - in relation to the favourite island of Samothraki, will happen in the next summer tourist season. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-01-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, too, actually. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-01-S1-commons.u4	Mr Colleague, you know that I also appreciate you and because I am a deeply parliamentary person - I believe in parliamentarianism - I particularly respect the role of the Member, the anxiety and the concern that he has over his home affairs. On the other hand, however, I have a strong feeling that when we come to Parliament, we must read and when we put questions, they must have targets to claim answers that will benefit the society we are talking about. I fear that today you will bring to Parliament a question which has no value at all. Perhaps you remember the seasons of the New Democracy in the islands and the Aegean. It changed, Mr Colleague, which is why you are listening to the Aegean regions - which people have no reason to say that things have changed in the Aegean. That's why you don't hear Mayor. You asked a question, but the mayors say other things. Yesterday he was the mayor of Alexandroupolis in my office and thanked me for what has been done. Every day three ships make two routes a day. You don't know that? Didn't you find out? What licenses are you talking about? When were licences submitted and not taken into account? The Ministry - and it is not self-sufficient - operates at a speed of light on these issues, because it understands what exclusion means, but, on the other hand, the government has drawn up a plan. We have made the best use of the economic potential, and we have really been able to close wounds and connect the islands, especially the small islands, with lines that gave them life. These, as a Member, you must know and follow them. If you want, we'll go to Samothrace together and see what they'll say to you and what people will tell me there, because I have another picture. We connected, after the Prime Minister's decision, Lavrio with Samothrace and Alexandroupolis, which you know what was happening there and there. You're not talking about this. We are already talking about the actors in the region, and the mayor of Alexandroupolis and the mayor of Samothrace, to see things that I expected you to ask me about today. New things that can best use the money that the Greek state has in terms of what we say barren lines and in this particular case. Already, I have to tell you, there is, examined and solved these days, and the routing of a fourth ship on the Samothrace line. Samothraki where it was an abandoned island, and you know it well what happened all the years, my dear colleague, today becomes a person. And it acquires the possibility of communication, the comfortable, fast and direct communication with Alexandroupolis. This interest will continue, because we owe it to what is termed 'the frontier'. You know very well from the other ministries from which I have passed and I imagine that the mayors both in the Dimotich and in Alexandroupolis and throughout Evros and throughout Thrace, but also throughout the border, how this government treats them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-01-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Minister. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-01-S1-commons.u6	Minister, the tourist season begins in June for Samothraki. The launch of the two high-speed craft was completed on 27 July. The application for authorisation was made on 15 May. These are the dates that people know and they can assess you as the Minister of Shipping. Also, in terms of revival for a quarter of the Alexandroupolis - Samothrace - Lemnos - Lavrio line, of course, we had your own decision and it will be judged. However, it created problems because we had Samothrace a day and a half without a route, because what was taking place on the Alexandroupolis - Samothraki line was on the line I said. The spare, however, is in Perama's waters for inspection. Unfortunately, he's gone. But today, in my dentistry, I would like to ask you, as far as the maritime connection between Alexandroupolis and Samothraki - Lemnos - Mytilini - is concerned, because the natural area of the markets in Thrace - the Minister for Development knows it in the past - is the Thracian Sea and the north-east Aegean. We held the conference in Alexandroupolis that all the mayors of the islands that I said before participated, all the institutional actors of the regions of eastern Macedonia and Thrace and the islands of the North Aegean participated. Your ministry shone in his absence, even though he was invited. I have come to your office and personally informed you of the importance of this line, and I have even raised four other issues, which I am told that I am not dealing with issues, but with the economy of time, Mr President, I shall not refer to them unless the Minister gives the green light to me. I've been waiting for his answer for five months and still answering, I think he'll invite us. Also, a corresponding conference will be held shortly in order to highlight the importance of this line, which is useful to promote our products in the northeastern Aegean and when one arrives in Mytilini, it can easily reach the central Aegean and the southeast Aegean. We envision the new maritime Egnatia, which will button on the respective road in Alexandroupolis. And that is why we expect you to participate in this conference to be held in Lemnos or Mytilini, as decided. But above all, we want you to plan. And we are sure that the Greek coasters will be interested in this line, which we believe will be efficient, sustainable, because one day they can take the boat from Alexandroupolis to Mytilini and the next day they will recover. We want the products of the northeastern Aegean in Thrace, as they want ours. In your hand is, you are Minister, you have the state stamp, you have the signature of the Minister. Well, make up your mind. We welcome you, as you said, to come to Thrace. I would also like to refer to a line that you are looking for a small island to turn it into a tax-free paradise. We recommend, Minister, Samothrace. We have Samothrace's Victory, put it as an image, but also as a logo, so that we can get this dream and your vision to do it. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-01-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Come on, Minister. You have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-01-S1-commons.u8	I, Mr President, expected this to be discussed today and not what you have brought in writing. Well, as far as the first one is concerned, I think I've answered. The society in the region knows how the Ministry worked and solved all this looseness, which was a timeless loose end, not to forget it. I believe that Samothraki will now have a very important transport link that will respond to the issues of isolation that she has felt over the years. Now as far as this new proposal is concerned. I told you then that it is a proposal that we are considering, because the case of Lavrio, which we discussed, will be assessed, to see if the money we give is a place. We have already had a relevant conversation with the Mayor of Alexandroupolis. We will have a meeting when we have the results of this line and will review the possibility of enabling the islands of the region to be interconnected with Lemnos. You don't tell us what Lemnos has been pulling all the years, what isolation she's been living in. Today this isolation has become part of the past because it has changed the policy and the way in which money is used for barren lines. Once the money served shipowners, they now serve society. Things have changed, they say in my village. So I say to you that we are open to discuss this case in order to test the possibility of this relationship between Mytilini, Lemnos, Samothrace and Alexandroupolis. Such a choice can prove much more developmental. And in such a spirit, we will all work together, because we understand that everyone has the same concern for this region. I have received the same interest from the Members of the region of all the parties who really have the same anxiety about better transport for the islands of the region. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-01-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Minister. Before we continue, I would like us to approve a licence for the absence of a colleague. Parliamentarian Halkidiki of the New Republic Mr George Vayonas is requesting permission from a short-day absence abroad from 16 September to 20 September 2017. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-01-S1-commons.u10	The House therefore approved the requested permission. I shall then read out the timely questions that will not be discussed because of the blockade of Ministers. The third, with No 1253/18-7-2017, topical question for the second cycle of the Member of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Kashiri to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: “Research and drilling for hydrocarbon deposits in the area south of Crete and more generally in the Greek Exclusive Economic Zone”, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister for the Environment and Energy Mr. Georgios Statakis. The reasoning is 'not discussed'. The third, with No. 1380/29-8-2017, topical question for the first cycle of MP II Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Sakis Vardalis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy on the subject: “Protection of the National Park of Delta Adequacy - Loudia - Aliakmon” will not be discussed due to a blockade by the Deputy Minister for the Environment and Energy Mr. Socrates Famelou, because he will be on a government mission in Thessaloniki due to meetings with institutions before the ID. Similarly, the first question under number 1323/22-8-2017 of the New Democracy MP, Isona Fotella, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: “Will we finally be given a solution to the issue of “AMIADIT”?”, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister for the Environment and Energy Mr Socrates Famelou, because he will be on a government mission in Thessaloniki due to meetings with institutions before the ID. We continue with the four topical questions which will be answered by the Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Stathakis. First of all, the first question under number 1331/28-8-2017 of the Parliamentary Chania Coalition, Evangelias (Valias) Vagioniakis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the institutional protection of the region of Elafonissos Chania, will be discussed. Mrs Vagonakis, you have the floor for two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-01-S1-commons.u11	Minister, in 2009 perhaps even at the beginning of 2010, it was submitted by the Museum of Natural History of the University of Crete and by the OADYK Special Environmental Study of Lafonisiou. For the great biological, ecological, aesthetic, scientific importance of the region does not need to be said much. But we must say that it belongs to the NATURA and I think it is one of the most recognizable areas in our country. This special environmental study, which has been submitted, is a product - and this is also important - of a long consultation with the inhabitants of the region and bodies and is the product of unanimous decisions by the City Council of the former Municipality of Inahori. It shields the region from the great interests that occasionally persecuted the region. Mostly, however, it is a proposal for mild development in the region and is, in fact, a development tool. Minister, in recent years the region has been under pressure from the intense tourist movement. A whole ecological movement had been developed to defend Lafonis in the past. In fact, I would say that together Chania’s institutions put pressure on them in the same direction, and many people worked to save Elafonissi. Minister, the residents and the institutions, the institutions of the region - and I refer to the mayor and the municipal council at the time - did their duty. Seven, eight years after the state has responded to the task of defending the environment, but also to the need for a development organised in the region. I would therefore like, Minister, to ask what extent is the adoption of the special environmental study and the subsequent presidential decree? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-01-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, my colleague. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-01-S1-commons.u13	As we all know, the issue of Elafonissos is a major issue for the county and for Crete, of course, because it is a unique point of protection. The area is obviously included in the NATURA network. And we have a special environmental study since 2009, prepared by OADYK, the Development Agency of Western Crete and the Natural History Museum of the University of Crete. In addition, the area has already been declared a ‘wildlife shelter’ in 2002 by FEK and a regulation has been laid down since 2009. In addition, the restrictions and prohibitions of Articles 5 and 13 of Law 3937/2011, entitled ‘Conservation of biodiversity and other provisions’, apply in the area. I say this because I want to make it clear that there are already strong protectionist provisions to prevent illegal activities, which are obviously responsible for the implementation of the local Forestry, the Environmental and Spatial Planning Department of the Decentralised Management of Crete, the Police, etc. We are therefore not in the absolute vacuum. And because it accepts a huge amount of tourists with obvious consequences, there is already an institutional framework, which would be a good starting point. Now, this study was carried out on the basis of the 1986 institutional framework, which enabled specific studies - environmental and other protection - to be carried out by various bodies, as was the case in this case. As a result, many studies have been made in several regions of the country without certain uniform rules being observed - perhaps with the exception of the study on Elafonisi, which is excellent - and a large number of special studies have been accumulated, which in many cases did not reach the Ministry and which did not go any further. In 2011 the legislation changed and brought the whole process of preparing these studies under the control of the Ministry of Energy and the Environment. In the context of this new legislation, the initiative we have taken is as follows: We publish the project "Building of specific environmental studies, draft presidential decrees and management plans" for the whole NATURA 2000 network and for the whole country. In particular, we will be proclaiming four hundred nineteen areas already included in the 2011 Act plus twenty-seven new areas. The idea is simple: for all NATURA areas, there will be special presidential decrees and management plans, which will follow uniform rules. In this context, there will also be an update of this study and a final approval based on the planning of the Ministry. I repeat that the study is excellent and by updating it we will be able to reach the desired result.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-01-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mrs Vagonakis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-01-S1-commons.u15	Minister, regardless of what you said, there will be regulation in total, because you yourself said that it is excellent for the specific environmental study of Elafonissos, I cannot understand why we should wait for all other environmental studies. Given that this study is a condition, in a way, for SWAP to be voted on, because that is where the whole specific environmental study is contained and because things are sometimes done uncontrolled, precisely because of the tourist pressure and over-exploitation in winter, I stress the need for the immediate signature of the special environmental study and the consequent Presidential Decree. And much more - I would like to stress this - the people of a region, such as the area of the former Municipality of Inahori, the region of Elafonissio, have the right to determine how they will go on development. So I do not understand how the state, which is essentially competent, responds to this. Much more, Minister, I would like to stress that if in an area such as Chania, where 45% is an NATURA region, progress will be made in this study on Elafonisi, it will also be an example of the other areas that exist in Chania, which are precisely NATURA areas. I would therefore like to ask that you see this region separately, that there be a direct signature of the relevant specific environmental study, and that we therefore press for a presidential decree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-01-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, my colleague, and the economy in time. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-01-S1-commons.u17	The fact is that the Prefecture of Chania has taken many steps forward in relation, possibly, to other areas. It is a clear example. It is a prefecture in which 45% are NATURA regions. But it already has a protection body for the Samaria gorge, a model management body, along with protection and special legislation. And the management body operates in the county. We also have the case of Elafonissos with a local government, which, in fact, well before anyone else, has carried out very serious studies and has tried to guarantee environmental protection and development like that we want, compatible with strong environmental constraints. There is therefore no doubt, therefore, that on the question of Elafonissos there has been a delay on the part of the central administration, under the current regime, in 2009, to proceed to a rapid institutionalisation, as anticipated, I repeat, the 1986 law. In 2011, following the changes that have taken place, we have to adapt to this: as long as we have a ready plan, this means that it will be done relatively quickly. We have just secured - I repeat - that the way in which it is dealt with is uniform, universal and has the same criteria. So, since in this case - I repeat - we have an excellent study, we will not expect any further studies or anything else to be completed. The study will be updated and a direct institutionalisation.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-01-S1-commons.u18	Is there a timeframe, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-01-S1-commons.u19	As far as I can assure you - I think Mr Famellos has also committed himself to this procedure - we are talking about the immediate communication of the programme to which I referred, for the overall protection of all regions, plus the twenty-seven young people we add.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-01-S1-commons.u20	We continue with our second question with No 1252/18-7-2017 on the second-round question of the First Vice-President of the Parliament and Member of the Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: “Electricity breaks in Rhodes, in the middle of a hot and tourist season”. Mr. Kremastinos has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-01-S1-commons.u21	Mr President, the question is rather unreasonable now because it would have been timely if it had been answered at that time. It's not the Minister's fault. But what can we do? We're talking about her now. When the question was raised by the PASOK - DIMAR, I told the Minister, that the services, PPC, should be careful to ensure that the islands and especially the Dodecanese, and especially the Rhodes, are rallyed. And the Minister, apparently from the information he had from PPC, said that everything would be fine and that there would be no problem. But when the heat wave came, the Rhodes newspapers headed - which I will testify - said: “In the mercy of the heat. Anger and indignation prevail in the world. Without power and water on the island." As you can see, the concern was great, because what would happen if there would be a second time a heater? It seems, however, that the good God also protects PPC and has not come to a heat second time, so we do not have to say that measures have been taken which, in any case, have helped us to cope with the second heat. He didn't come in. As a result, what remains from the question - and remains serious - is that, Minister, we must not be or are you - say as you wish - in the service, because the services are beautiful. The reality is, however, different. The 15-year-old who I was in Kos, became small - not large - power breaks and the hotel I was staying, automatically put its generator into service and did not seem to be interrupting. In other words, there are indeed problems. They are neither theoretically nor physically opposed and I think you should deal with them on the substance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-01-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr President. The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-01-S1-commons.u23	There is one element of exaggeration, I think, in the question and we need to be clear. Current holidays did not take place in Rhodes, with the exception of Saturday 1-7-2017 when we had a limited interruption - to put its measure - 15MW to a total of 200MW and lasted the interruption - hang on! - from 11.50 to 12.25. So less than 1/10. At a certain point in time, that is, for half an hour there has been a problem, resulting in the fact that we had two units available for 20MW each, which had been damaged and unoperated, and at the same time during these repairs a third unit was unpredictablely decommissioned by the activation of a fire protection system. I repeat that throughout the summer there was a very limited - and scale and duration - power shutdown - for half an hour - in a very small part of the network due to an extraordinary juncture where all three units - were scheduled for the third was unforeseen - suddenly inoperative. What measures have been taken to ensure that there is security? After emphasising that such damage, like the one I have implied, is obviously happening - one cannot say that it is not happening - the TEN has ensured that the system is fully adequacy. PPC, as recommended by the DEDDIE, transferred and installed portable power-generating pairs to Rhodes to cover possible power deficits. This summer's balance sheet is absolutely positive, which is something that the local press in Rhodes - I am referring to the publications of the 'DIMMOCRATIC' on 22-8-2017- recognises that throughout the peak period, during the tourist season, the needs of the island have been fully met. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-01-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr President, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-01-S1-commons.u25	The problem, as I said to you, is neither an issue of opposition nor of exaggeration, since a newspaper writes - and a newspaper with great local traffic - on its front page that: "In the region of Rodin and Ascension since this morning, the inhabitants of the regions are now facing the problem of electricity dismantling, plus that they have no water, which has caused severe reactions in the world". So when it is a front page, it cannot be an exaggeration in any way that we do so and the news is judged by the local society. For you realize that if it were not true, the newspaper is automatically disproved. So it's not an exaggeration. As I said, I believe the Minister's assurances, but on the other hand there has not been a wave of heat to test, in a way, whether the assurances of the services are sufficient. After all, what you said - the Minister - about the lack of units, their incompetence, the newspaper writes it, that two PPC diesel plants in Soronis have been put out of service, and a gas turbine is also inoperative. That's what you said in the paper. But what do they actually say? They are all saying that we want protection from a new possibility of heat, which fortunately did not come - the season is over, and of course it will not come - and that this protection must be taken seriously into account by the Ministry and PPC of course, and should not be subject to the assurances. What I told you was my personal experience from Kos. It wasn't even written in the papers. But it was a little vacation. I am not talking about them, which, if necessary, must be treated, because not everyone has the power, to have automatic machines that operate and to bring the electricity back, only large hotels. In other words, small producers, professionals, the various small and medium-sized enterprises in any case do not have that possibility. Therefore, during a tourist period, there can also be health hazards, because, as you can see, there are products which are sensitive which are affected by minor interruptions. So in conclusion, firstly, there is no question of opposition. There is a matter of substance and the second and most important is that I would ask you, Mr Stathakis, to see it personally.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-01-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mr President, for the time. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-01-S1-commons.u27	I do not want to speak, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-01-S1-commons.u28	We continue with the fourth under the number 1158/4-7-2017 topical question of the second question of the Member of Parliament, Florina, New Democracy, Ioannis Antoniadis, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Total and not partial relocation of the Community of Achladas of the Prefecture of Florina". Mr. Comrade, you have two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-01-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Mr President. Good month, everybody. Minister, it has not been an honor to anyone to wander this matter for months. He's completed five to six months. We said you were inaccurate, but we want you not to lose you. You must be useful. Of course, I will tell you that the second alarming thing is that after six months, nothing has changed. This timely question is still a timely one, and of course it concerns the overall relocation of a community, in this case of the Florina Axle Community. This is a community that is'sitting' on a wealth of hundreds of millions of euros, and I am talking about lignite. There is a private company, which, around the village, has opened craters - and this is how it is, of course, mining, but I mention it, because environmental restoration is partial, too many large parts of the area have been without restoration - and now it is time - because the stocks are over and from these stocks, which had to have been provided by the company for years to make a total relocation of the village. However, no plan has been made, there is no programming, and the worrying thing is that the ministry has agreed first to a partial relocation and forced expropriation. Following the pressure of events, you also approved the forced expropriation of the other two settlements beyond one. In other words, the whole community was separated into three settlements. Questions are two very important, because they give us the mark of your political intentions and yours and the private investor, the representative of the company's owner. We need to know from official information per settlement, how much lignite is hidden underneath, because we will also know the real intentions of the company and whether you are determined to make a total relocation or to contribute, in any case, - because we have a specific, peculiar regime with the private person there - to help make a total relocation of the village, which helps the government, and you, and the private person, but above all helps the people we are all interested in.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-01-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-01-S1-commons.u31	Good. First of all, let us make it clear that this problem should have been solved by the previous government. In other words, the long period of contracts, the individual who took over the exploitation of this mine by concession, should - I stress it - have to compensate the entire community that will be transferred, because the data on lignite reserves are data. I'll report them right back. From the outset, there was no question either of a partial movement of the settlements or anything else, since area I of the settlement has a lignite stock of 6.5 million tonnes, area II of the settlement has 5.2 million tons and area III even more of 13.1 million tons. So we're talking about a community that's on the lignite field. The lignite field is granted, along with the private commitment to pay for the relocation of the settlement. The private person declares inability to do so and introduces the idea of partition, part, first part, first part, second and second, to proceed with the compensation. That's impossible. The present government has committed itself to seeking a transfer solution now of the entire settlement. There's no other way. There's no other way. The problem we have to solve is this: by declaring the private inability to pay this whole, how to find a way to relocate as a whole now, by committing the maximum possible contribution to financial costs, and by seeking to fill in the rest - which will, of course, be given in the future - with a financial arrangement which will solve the problem and will currently overcome the weakness on the part of the company as regards the immediate payment of all the money needed for the relocation. So our position is clear. Relocation of the whole. There is no question of that, because this has to be done. The cost under the contract must be borne by the company as a whole. The company declares unable to cover all costs and we are trying to find a consensual financial solution, which will respond to the primary problem and at the same time will not, of course, lead to an exit to the farm, which is so vital to the operation of Meliti I.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-01-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Antoniadis, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-01-S1-commons.u33	Minister, I am glad that you are honest, that you are indeed saying that this was the intention of the company to become a division. I am also pleased that you say that the political will that exists from you is to find the solution to become a whole. But I will tell you something you may know and I would like you to take note of that. First of all, regarding the expropriations of 2011 and 2012 made by the company in the village. The primary and secondary court has ruled, in February 2017, has passed and in eighteen months, and yet the company refuses to pay compensation. What's he saying? He says: "Get away, get an action, I'll go to the Arena Ice." From 2011 to 2012, people have received compensation. It is important that this issue should be brought about by this company to bear the burden of relocation in any way and with any consensus. We must put this on the table, and at some point these people should also take these allowances and not open up a wound with the new ones. In other words, whatever happens there, we must certainly ensure that these people get their money. But I would like to say to you this: in the region, Minister, this is very important - for many years, and I do not exclude all the previous ones from the responsibilities - the wealth has come to an end. There is a wealth of billions of euros. Of the 130 billion people in the region did not get 10 percent, neither 5% nor 1% took 0.2%, and this 0.2%, which is 2.4%, on the one hand, took it and on the other hand lost it. And that's why? Because we showed up with high fictitious GDP and we get less money from the NSRF, less jobs. The Prime Minister comes to the development conference in western Macedonia, announces nothing about Florina and when he goes to Central Greece, Mr. Bakoyannis, recognizes fictitious GDP and gives 210 million extra money, while we are not giving anything. Also at a meeting we had with Mr Panayotakis - and I'm glad he accepted it and which was his opinion - you know what the irony was about the region? This region has the highest unemployment throughout the European Union. Our children go to the islands to find work and work as waiters and we subsidise each year with 740 million electricity - listen! - Mykonos, Rhodes, Corfu. Finally this has been captured on the paper and all the citizens of Greece see what is going on and where PPC's money goes! I'll also tell you something else. For the relocation of the Anargira it has been three months. We said in a week, in a month. The residents are worried. The winter comes and they don't know where their children will go to school, if they're gonna have to scratch, what to buy and what to do. The same goes for the Valtonera. I want to tell you that a state of emergency has been declared up there. All you know is what's walking, Minister? Awards of millions. I don't know if you know this, but because of the emergency PPC has the ability to award and all it walks, it's the millions in the area. There's a party. I put it in your mind to investigate it and see what's going on. I also want to say that there is a major problem with the issue of Amyntium - Philotas. If he closes, it's gonna be a nuclear bomb for the area. Direct workers are a thousand five hundred and another thousand five hundred perimeter with the contractors and if it closes, there will be a huge crater that will swallow us all. We want you to tell us what's going to happen. In any case, Minister, as you have been here for the Anargyrs, we invite you to come back once to listen to the inhabitants. I don't say it in opposition. I'm in the interest of not coming and complaining to you. But come once to listen to the inhabitants and tell what your plans are. Minister, the Amyntau mine and the Amyntau AI must certainly be operational, as must AIO Meliti and become the second unit. Also tell us a few words about what the plan is, what is going to be done for the region, which is of major importance both for PPC and for the government and for us up there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-01-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, my colleague. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-01-S1-commons.u35	First of all, I find it incomprehensible that you have criticised regional conferences and especially the Prime Minister for taking care of both regional conferences, because we are talking about two regions, which, according to per capita income, are, for specific reasons, excluded from the European Union's regional aid map, which is the framework within which regional aid is granted. It is completely unfair to criticise, because both in Central Greece and in the Regional Conference of Western Macedonia it has become clear that we are talking about specific development programmes, which take into account the specificities of each region and try to seek, find and support new resources, beyond the regional aid system, the particular problems that each region has. And I repeat that western Macedonia and the special programme it has announced, which has been drawn up and which has almost all been accepted by the government, is not about Mr Karapidis, it is about a special development project for the region that is trying to deal with the problems. I therefore consider this criticism unfair, precisely because in two very important regions of the country, where we have a high per capita income - in one case because of PPC and in the second case because of the concentration of industries that left Attica - the government with a measure of reasonable and structured thoughts is in dialogue with local society in order to find solutions. With regard to the other themes you said, as you know, Amyntheus has visited it many times, while in Kosani I go more often than in Chania. The last six I've been six or seven times. There is therefore no idea that there is no particular concern for the region. Especially because of developments in energy, at the heart of discussions and negotiations with institutions is the issue of lignite plants and mines and the disinvestment of PPC. It is therefore the number one issue which we are discussing at the moment, and at the same time we have a special concern to address all the issues of the relocation of the regions. I am not going to go into the details of the Amyntheus because it follows another question from Mr Carras, so I will be given the opportunity to reply there. In conclusion, however, I would like to stress once again that on the issue of Achlada we are now trying to find the solution for the overall relocation of the community, overcoming the problems it has created - I repeat, for once again - the contractor, the concessionaire, the company that has the obligation and commitment under the law to move forward with the complete relocation of Achlada and that is what we are working on.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-01-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Minister. We shall now proceed to the fourth and last questions that you will answer, Minister. The first question under number 6397/602/15-6-2017 will be discussed and an application for the submission of a document by the Independent MEP II of Athens, Georgios - Dimitrios Karras, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Destructive slash at the Lignite mine of Amyntaios". Mr. Carras, you have the floor for two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-01-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Mr President. When Amynteios was slashed, the well-known issue that has been troubled and publicity in many respects, I tabled a question, so that Parliament and I can see the actions of the Ministry and the time within which the problems can be solved and dealt with, so as not to exclude the lignite field of Amyntaio from productive activity. We all understand that, as long as the treatment is delayed, employment and economy issues in western Macedonia are at stake, which, as far as I have heard from Mr Antoniadis's previous question, is based on the exploitation of these fields. In addition, because of the critical nature of time, the government is currently discussing, as the Minister has said, with the institutions, the question of PPC's disinvestment in the PPC's and its lignite fields, not excluding Amynenes at the time of the negotiation, because then we will not deliver 40% to third parties, but a much greater percentage than this wealth, which is natural. Lignite is not a renewable natural resource, so that we can say that we have unlimited quantities. Unfortunately, I was not satisfied with my reply, Mr Minister, from PPC and the Ministry. My questions are summarized in a critical one: How much time is it necessary to control the phenomenon, ensure the safety of the plaintiffs, return to productive activity, so that the tons of lignite that have been covered can be made productive and do not become sterile for rejection? And this is the only way to maintain the level of employment and the contribution to the economy. Unfortunately - and that is why I asked for it to be turned into a timely question - the answer I received from the Ministry, in particular with regard to the report of the mining inspectors which had been announced - and indeed the Minister had promised that by the end of July he would have been tabled in response to a timely question from a colleague - was that the autopsy report to be drafted by the Mining Inspectorate will be forwarded to the competent Public Prosecutor and the Defence Police Department. I don't care about the criminal aspect, who was to blame, who did or didn't. It concerns me, and I think it concerns the region more widely - and here I sum up my questions, and I have taken note, Mr Minister, of all the dossier you have forwarded to me in cd, environmental studies and approvals - the issue of the return of this lignite field to full production activity. I would ask you to answer that question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-01-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Mr. Carras. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-01-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Mr President. To begin with, as you know, the mine of Amyntian suffered a very great disaster. PPC's services at the time when this development took place systematically monitored the evolution of the phenomenon. In fact, they had stopped from early June to exploit the lignite mine before the disaster. For this reason, we did not have human victims. Thus, the mine had virtually died, since it was "predicted" that there was a risk of landslides. So this is the part of the phenomenon itself. The consequences of landslide and the future exploitation of the mine are a second theme on which PPC makes various measurements and captures things. It assesses the financial cost of how the mine will return to operation, which of the pieces of landslides can be exploited, which part of the mine from the intact can then be exploited and how etc. As far as the operation and adequacy of the Amyntaios AIA are concerned, as you know, he works with seventeen and a half thousand hours. Its function is limited. This part that has not been hit by landslide continues to fuel it, while at the same time the procedures are speeding up, if another look is needed, the Lakkias. So the issue of Amyntium and the operation of the station has been addressed. Now we are entering into the essential issue of the illusion of the causes and how and why this slash took place. There are three conclusions we expect. One conclusion is from the Mining Inspection Department of our Ministry. That came from the law. They have done their study, they have conducted autopsies in it. The evidence of the autopsy is due, obviously, to the public prosecutor and the Ministry. This is the one process carried out by the Ministry's mining inspectors. At the same time, two special committees have been set up and this has been done immediately after the flooding. One committee was formed by PPC to study precisely the size, causes and conditions of this landslide. And the Ministry, we, have at the same time decided to set up a second independent committee to ensure that the findings of these two committees are 100% independent in assessing the causes of this landslide. That's the data. I think we still need a little patience, if we have all three findings at the disposal of all, so that we can really assess what the causes were and at the same time see - this is a technical issue that concerns PPC above all - the final printing of how the mine will be exploited after what happened.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-01-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Carras, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-01-S1-commons.u41	Mr President, thank you. When I received the information he sent me the Ministry, I printed a thousand pages, Minister, because you sent us a CD. So I sat down and saw them as far as possible, non-technical. I've seen a series of mistakes, and I have to write them down. The Amynteios mine and the Lakkias mine cannot operate without environmental conditions from January 2014. It is a tragic event that deceives PPC as such and renders the indifference that exists. Why am I saying that? It turns out very clearly. The initial environmental conditions of 2004 were set for a period of 10 years. They will be submitted, Mr President. It is 23-1-2004 that the environmental conditions of the mine are. They are amended in 2007 without changing their duration and expressly referred to in the 2007 amendment that they are valid as long as the initial GDP of the General Generation of 2014. It then comes to PPC and submits a new GDP study on 3-6 2014, i.e. in time that it no longer had environmental conditions. There is landslide and it is a major issue which, if environmental conditions were to exist, I feel that it would be predicted, because from the 2004 approvals, at least, it speaks of soil cracks, which means that the dolphinists had to have installed, measured and taken measures to avoid the phenomenon. And it now comes as a result of what I say, Mr President, the Special Standing Committee on the Environment of the Parliament on 29-6-2017, which discussed the question of the restoration of the lignite fields of western Macedonia and the responsible sector of the environment of PPC for the mines, says: 'If the mining industry of Amyntaio is concerned, the environmental study is in the services of the Ministry to be licensed'. The same thing is said by the environmental operator in charge of the mining activities of the Ministry of the Environment that: "Indicative is that the Amyntaio mine will now be updated again because of the landslides". I ask now and I raise the question: if environmental conditions existed and there were predictions of conditions and these conditions had been implemented, would it not have been possible at least in time for landslides to occur? Because the mine was closed six days before the slash. But would measures with geotechnical studies, with security measures, have been dealt with? I therefore believe that any debate - and to end, Mr President - on the findings of PPC, the Ministry, the Mining Inspection at the moment is secondary to the fact that we cannot speak of a mine without environmental conditions being approved. I don't know if there are any responsibilities on the part of the Ministry of the Environment. The study has been submitted since June 2014. Not approved. I don't know why. I don't want to comment on the reasons. But I see that at the moment PPC is in a transitional phase and a change of ownership, which will affect not only the adequacy and stability of the country's electricity supply but also has huge economic parameters as far as the value of the transfer of the lignite fields, the PPC, or the negotiation with the institutions is concerned if it is 40% or more of PPC's investment and at a time that PPC does not actually collect a large part of its demands due to the inability of the Greek population, we are depreciating and that is why I fear that the government policy of the last three, four years is responsible, because we cannot talk about PPC, we cannot talk about the largest mine in the country without environmental conditions. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-01-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Mr. Carras. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-01-S1-commons.u43	I will look at the details that you have said about substantially updating environmental conditions and whether there has been a delay. I don't have the lead right now. In any case, however, it must be clear to everyone that it is an old mine, a very large mine, in which there is obviously the environmental framework, which is updated according to the progress made in the exploitation of this mine. The second element, which is important in this respect, is, of course, that this will show us the findings, whether the exploitation of the mine was rational, whether it had taken all the data into account, or whether the causes eventually fall within a system of unforeseen, unforeseen dimensions, which could not have been taken into account. These are the elements and findings, from which, above all, in a documented manner, we will be able to understand precisely why what happened. Obviously, what happened has not happened for reasons of one or more bureaucratic or other delays. I think that the reason and the causes for an old mine, which is under way and with a huge future on the basis of stocks, must be clarified in a systematic and methodical manner. Now, Amyntheus remains - I repeat - on the basis of the first estimates for its exploitation in the debates. We include it in the valuation of 40% of the deinvestment. So at least it does not directly affect this debate, because we have it, at least with reduced amounts, in relation to the past, a mine for recovery. Therefore, it only affects the part of the mine for which we still do not have a clear picture of how much of this is recoverable. However, the remainder is obviously included in the 40% valuation. And we believe that the prospect for the Amyntaios also, of course, continues to exist as an integral part of the exploitation of the country's lignite potential for energy production. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-01-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. There is a letter from the Secretary-General of the Government on the timely questions which have not been discussed. I would like to thank you for the smooth conduct of the debate and the respect of the years. So I think the month, at least parliamentary, has started well. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-01-S1-commons.u45	With the agreement of the House at 11.15 p.m. the sitting for the next Monday, September 4, 2017, at 18.00, on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical and urgent questions.
