ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 31-1-2017, the minutes of the Council meeting of Tuesday 31 January 2017 were ratified by the Bureau of the Council on Tuesday, 31 January 2017, with regard to the adoption of the draft law as a whole: ‘Creation of the Montenegrin Protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty’.]] Before entering the special agenda, I have the honour of announcing the topical and urgent question report to the House on Thursday, 2 February 2017. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 404/30-1-2017 by MP Carditsa of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Chrysula Katsavria - Siropoulou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the drafting of a national plan to support cotton farming. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by number 398/27-1-2017 of the Member of the Dodecanese Parliament, Mr Emmanuel Konsolas, to the Minister of Tourism, about the lack of secondary and specialised processing of arrival data, which creates a false and inaccurate picture of our tourism. 3. The Question No 393/24-1-2017 by MP II of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Helen Zarulia to the Minister of Finance, on the "definition of judge in the administration of the supreme deprivation". 4. The Question No 392/24-1-2017 by the MP of the Democratic Association of the PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Friday Christophilopoulos to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity concerning the non-participation of representatives of the members of the Board of Directors. the Single Social Insurance Institution (ESMA). 5. The Question No 409/30-1-2017 by MP II of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Finance about the sale of the "National Insurance". 6. The question by No. 406/30-1-2017 of the Member of Parliament of the Greek Independents Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Finance regarding the transfer of PPC's users to companies of alternative electricity providers. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The question by No. 402/27-1-2017, by MEP I Thessaloniki, Mr.Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister of Health, concerning the reduction of the cost of diagnostic tests for breast cancer. 8. The question by number 400/27-1-2017 of the Z' Vice President of the Parliament and MP of the Athens I of Potamios Mr. Spyridonos Lykoudis to the Minister of Finance, concerning unexploited properties for which the public pays high rents. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 405/30-1-2017 by MP Greven of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Christos Beyala to the Minister of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, on the transition to the digital signal for large parts of the province. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 399/27-1-2017 by the New Democracy MP, Jason Fotella, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, concerning the delay in the project to extend the Peninsula Canal to Western Achaia. 3. The Question No 394/24-1-2017 by MP Aitolakarannia of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Konstantinos Barbarousis to the Minister of the Interior, concerning measures to modernise the water supply network in the city of Aitolikos, in order to protect public health and the health of the inhabitants of the region. 4. The 396/25-1-2017 topical question by MP II of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdos to the Minister of Culture and Sport on the situation in the Athens Concert Hall. 5. The Question No 408/30-1-2017 by Mr Ioannis Giokas, Member of the Attica Party of Greece, to the Minister of Health, concerning the serious problems of families and workers in special education services. 6. The Question No 367/20-1-2017 by Evia MP of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nicholas Michou to the Minister of the Interior, on the "unacceptable displacement of thirty-six thousand seven hundred sixty-sixteen Greek children from day-care stations". 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The 366/20-1-2017 topical question by Congressman I of the Central Association Mr.Ioannis Saridis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy on the restoration of injustice in the production of electricity from domestic photovoltaic systems. 8. The Question No 365/20-1-2017 by MP Achaias of New Democracy Mr Andreas Katsaniotis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs about the reopening of transitional sections of the TEI of Western Greece. 9. Under number 338/13-1-2017, a topical question by MP I Piraeus of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Kouzilou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the "perspective of residence of the twenty eight islands that upgrades the national sovereignty of Greece and strengthens the sovereign rights of the country". 10. The Question No 337/13-1-2017 by the Vice-President of the Parliament and Deputy Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Health regarding the scope of the application of telemedicine in Greece. 11. The Question No 333/12-1-2017 by MP Achaias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Theodoros Papatheodorou to the Minister of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information on the financing of journalists and websites. 12. The 313/5-1-2017 topical question by Piraeus, Union of Centres Mr.Theodoras Megalonikou to the Minister of Health, concerning the risk of children and adolescents staying without treatment. 13. Observations of the Court of Justice The Question No 345/16-1-2017, by MP, Athens, Nea Spyridonos - Adonidos Georgiadis to the Minister of Finance, concerning mismanagement issues in the Hellenic Defence Systems (ESA). REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 1735/5-12-2016 question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR. Mr Vassiliou Kegeroglou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, concerning the separation of cases of the real rhetoric and the assessment of possible unrecorded consumption and inclusion in the settlement of the thirty-six instalments of PPC of all categories of consumer debt. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 89/5-10-2016 by the Member of the Dodecanese Parliament, Mr Emmanuel Konsolas, to the Minister of Health, concerning the completion and segregation of the Oncology Department of the Rhodes Hospital. 3. The Question No 89/5-10-2016 by Vice-President of the Parliament and Deputy Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Health concerning the completion and segregation of the Oncology Department of the Rhodes Hospital. 4. The number 2117/100/19-12-2016 question and application for the submission of documents by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, concerning the delay in the completion of the Panormos-Exante project. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Mr. Voridis, it's all really good.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u2	For us well, but it's a little mourning from there.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u3	You fill us with optimism.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u4	Mr President, we have been hearing about the complexion...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u5	We know that you are always optimistic or reluctant for the country alone, so your optimism reflects throughout the Chamber and fills us with those who listen to us with very positive feelings.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u6	So, Mr President. You have interpreted the feelings of this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u7	I'm absolutely sure. And yours.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the SPECIFIC FEDERATION In accordance with Rule 148 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, the Committee of Inquiry's findings concerning the investigation of the legality of lending by political parties and the owners of media companies from the country's banking institutions submitted to Parliament on 25 January 2017. The Committee of Inquiry, which reached the conclusion under discussion, was set up by a unanimous decision of the Parliamentary Assembly, taken at its meeting on 15 April 2016. Her statement was lodged on January 25, 2017, communicated to the House, registered in the minutes of this meeting and distributed to colleagues. [[Due to the large volume of the finding, its text is not entered in this Practice and is in electronic form at the link http://www.hellenicparliament.gr/UserFiles/510129c4-d278-40e7-8009-e77fc230adef/ORDER%20EXFERENCE%20FORMITY%20FORMITY%20COMMUNITIES%2017.pdf]] I have the honour to take into account the unanimous decision of the Conference of Presidents in organising the debate on the conclusion, which will be carried out in accordance with Rule 137(2) of the Rules of Procedure, i.e. in accordance with the procedure for the generalised debate, as it has been observed in the past. In particular, the debate will begin with a first cycle of nine, as a matter of priority, speakers, one of each parliamentary group and one independent MEP, with speaking time for every 10 minutes, without a right of secondment. First he will take the floor of the Member of Parliament's Group of the Radical Left coalition and second Member of the Greek Parliament's Group of Independents, who have tabled this proposal. Here, ten minutes will be fifteen. It has been requested, but I would ask that it be observed. In other words, there is a comfort to the Members who handled things from the position of the main rapporteurs and within the committee to express their views. We will then enter the speeches on the single list, pursuant to Rule 65(5) of the Rules of Procedure, made up of two circles of speakers. Each cycle will consist of fourteen MPs, five MPs from the Radical Left Coalition, three MPs from New Democracy and one from the other parliamentary groups. The speakers and speakers in the single catalogue will be given the floor for ten minutes, without the right to a second. The parliamentary groups have already submitted statements of speakers and a single list of speakers has been drawn up by the service in proportion to the parliamentary power of the parties. We say that the MPs of the Co-Population will alternate with the MPs of the Opposition as follows. That is something we will see in practice. The speaking time of the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups will be laid down in Rule 97(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure, i.e. the length of speech by the Prime Minister and the Chief of Staff Response will be up to twenty minutes and the Presidents of the other six Parliamentary Groups up to fifteen minutes. The ministers will talk ten minutes an hour. Parliamentary representatives will be speaking for twelve minutes. However, as the chairman of their parliamentary group speaks first, they will speak for six minutes. I would like to inform you that on behalf of the Government - because I said to the ministers - Mr Skourletis, as Minister of the Interior, will speak - this is also about the conclusion of contracts relating to the economics of the parties - and Mr Papapas, particularly in relation to the media, Mr Kontonis and Mr Papagelopoulos, from the Ministry of Justice and Mr Famelos, who also had the chairmanship of the committee for a possible period of previous years. I propose that the debate on the findings is closed by 12 o'clock at midnight. That's to do, it takes a lot of restraint, or we go one, two at night. As far as I know, there is no provision for voting or for opening a procedure which would lead to the specific procedure of pre-inquiry. So the whole debate will be about the hours that will be consumed. It is possible that all political leaders may also speak. Because they have already said four plus two, which we know, namely, six, it is very likely that everyone will talk or almost all of us, so I tell you that there is a tightening of time and we should be stricter. I would like to inform you of the nine first speakers, whom their parliamentary groups have indicated. These are the following colleagues: Mr Balomeni, Mr Metarakis, Mr Metarakis, Mr Kasidiaris, Mr Koutsoukos, Mr Karathanasopoulos, Mr Saridis, Mr Mavrotas and Mr Nikolaopoulos. Furthermore, the rest, which the groups have indicated, there is no need to read to you, we will see them in the next two cycles. Let's go quickly, I'd beg, without pre-trial proceedings.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u9	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u10	Just a minute, Mr. Loverdo. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended from the top Western theories, after taking part in the educational programme "Research and we are discussing Governor Ioannis Kapodistrias", which organizes the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty-three students and students and two educational attendants from the 2nd High School of Gerakas. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Loverdos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u11	Mr President, you have rightly invoked Rule 148 of the Rules of Procedure, under which this House regulates how it can deal with the findings. Paragraph 3 of Rule 148 speaks of discussing the conclusions in plenary if they request it. I would ask you very much, because obviously this has been arranged, to distribute the text of the sixty Members. Unless we don't have that text, so we're gonna have to see it again.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u12	There has been a statement in plenary, it has been recorded in the Minutes and the system has been posted in good time. It's been distributed, that is.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u13	First of all, I do not want to make it difficult. If we need to facilitate it in some way, our parliamentary group is willing to make it easier for the debate to take place. But we cannot have any violations of the Rules of Procedure. What you say about the submission to plenary and registration in the Minutes regulates Article 148(2). However, Article 148(3), ladies and gentlemen, Parliamentary Representatives and rapporteurs, regulates what happens next, after it has been announced and registered. It says, then, that if there is a proposal from 1/5 of all Members, that is, 60 Members, the conclusion of the examination is put on the agenda to discuss, as you rightly say, 137. Please give us the proposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u14	On 26 January 2017 a proposal was put forward and announced in plenary, in detail. It is registered and is located in the Special Secretariat of Parliamentary President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u15	Why don't you distribute it to us? To be distributed to us, to see the signatures.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u16	It's never been distributed before, from what I'm told, but we'll do it. There's no reason we don't. What for? We all understand what this is all about. It'll be distributed. It's over. We get it. For signatures, Mr. Loverdo. They've got it. Do you mind giving the secretaries and parliamentarians of all the parties? Don't make three hundred copies. To be given to all parties.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u17	Pick up the signatures first, then.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u18	Mr. Loverdo, Mr. Rizzo, please. Because the easily understood one time is not omitted, the signatures are gathered and will be distributed to you. It's over. The minutes of the sitting will be distributed. There's no hint of any type of poaching. I would ask Mr Balomannakis to take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mr President. Good evening. Ladies and gentlemen, the decision to set up the Committee of Inquiry has served as a necessity. It was consistent with the government's proclaimed intention and commitment to investigate and strike the argument, bringing to light all the cases of abuses, fine acts and illegality, for which until then there were many indications, but a complete and complete picture had not been created. The eruption of interlocutory was also, and remains, a key political project of SYRIZA, a key component of its regenerative program, which served and served it consistently and responsibly, having been given a clear command from the Greek people for this reason. The Commission's long-term work has brought to light and leads to justice dozens of cases, which are not just special and individual credit operations. They are part of a fresco, a gigantic, if you like, of the system of political and economic power of years that preceded relations of all kinds, addiction, mutual services, overlapping, facilities of all kinds. An underground branch connected power parties to systemic media and to the administrations of the banks. It was only visible in its broad lines, so that we all know they are there, but there is no access to the details that are now discovered. Details which, as was revealed in committee, knew and regulated by a very small circle of people, namely the leaderships of the PASOK and New Democracy parties, with executive bodies, their economic operators, the governors and the majestics of the banks, the owners and trustworthy directors of the information groups. The products of this grid have been scandalous loans, without bank criteria, in breach of banking and common legislation, which is the subject of our debate today. Here I will make a first reference to the arguments against, that is, in which PASOK and the New Democracy attempted to escape from their obligation to take a clear position. The'so they all did' and the 'was a era of fat cows' is the first part of this argument. The second and most corrosive part is: “What should we do? How could we predict the unforeseen change of circumstances?' There is no doubt that other economically strong players have borrowed at the same time, also in breach of banking rules. As the financial capital becomes increasingly specific in modern capitalism, the increase in its role mainly benefits big capital, which thus increases its power and enforcement. This is a historically confirmed finding, which I assume Mr Karathanasopoulos will speak about, but without the copyright being part of it, because it belongs to society as a whole and to every citizen thinking about it. There is also no doubt that by the crisis many designs, even householders, fell out. What is it that differentiates the case that we consider? First, that the infringement of the excessive lending functioned as a link, the common element of the triangle of interlocutory. Secondly, that he had taken a generalised character. As we will hear from the Members who are going to take the step, the infringing bank lending has been, with very few exceptions, the rule, the sole source of funding for the establishment of newspapers, radio and television stations, which belonged to very wealthy, otherwise. Thirdly, that violating lending has not only continued to exist in the years of the crisis, but that is when most and most serious violations have been committed. These are the separate features, ladies and gentlemen, which give these parties and SMEs their extremely problematic character. There is, however, one more thing. The particular role of the parties and the means of communication in the functioning of democracy obliges us to be much more demanding, more sensitive, if you like, for the place where they are lending. The New Democracy and PASOK parties have dominated for forty years, until the popular disapproval, for their inability to predict and above all to manage the crisis and the convenience with which they transferred its weight to the poorest and middle layers of society, has originally sent them to an anomaly and has subsequently led to a dramatic reduction in their sometimes dominating percentages. The supremacy of these parties was due to the sense of eternity given to them by their almost absolute sovereignty. Their insight into power has led them to behaves that are criminally flattered, as will be exposed by the subsequent Members. The systemic means of communication, on the other hand, had to deal with the expansion of social media, but they collapsed financially from 2009 onwards, not only because of technological development and not solely because of the crisis. This was due to their precedent, as they supported almost every anti-linguistic measure taken successively by the governments of Giorgos Papandreou, Papademos and Samaras. This depreciation was translated into a dramatically smaller circulation, a reduction in advertising and a continuously negative economic position. Both parties of interlocutory, and especially the large media, have found easy bank lending as an antidote to their financial difficulties. While the whole country, businesses, the people of production were tested by the crisis, the bands took the wonderful KAUs, common bond loans, with the scandalous conditions that the committee has highlighted and resurrected. PASOK and New Democracy used the banking system as a means of doubling their revenues. The numbers are glossy. The time before the crisis began and while their debts had reached unthinkable heights, tens of millions of them were still being borrowed each. In just a few years their total debt had been detonated twice. The Greek people deserve to remember who were leaders of these parties at the time. Antonis Samaras had just taken over the leadership of the New Democracy and George Papandreou was the prime minister and leadership of the PASOK. At that time there was still room for sound and responsible management. It was indicated by the then economic operator of PASOK, Mr Salayannis, in public, but without being heard. Instead of that, the leaders of the parties chose the way in which payments were made, which even took the form of a legislature. In other words, the debtor has decided that he is not required to pay his debts. I am referring to the two regulations of 2012 and 2014. It was really a global originality. In order to obtain free foreign money, the two parties showed provocative indifference and contempt for democracy itself. They used over-lapping to continue imposing political life with a provocative demonstration of power, through the wasteful management, with the moving crowds in the elections, the great election expenses of projection, which were absorbed by most of their lending. At the same time, it has been demonstrated, in their funds, that money was also made available from other sources, such as the infamous 2%, by the hatreds of 'SIEMENS', for which Parliament has finally stated that it existed. Here I am going to make a second reference to the arguments which, shortly, are expected to be developed by the officers of the officer, in particular, of counter-population. They're not detecting, they say, political responsibilities. Some address this finding with relief. Others do so to degrade the importance of the conclusion, therefore, of the whole project, even mentioning an unproven account. There are our fellow citizens who receive this finding with disappointment. I would therefore like to make this statement by addressing the last category of citizens. Perhaps Ignorantly, a confusion has arisen between the personalised political responsibilities required by Rule 158 of the Rules of Procedure and, consequently, Article 86 of the Constitution and refers to members of the current government and those who held two meetings before, namely, a very small and limited number of persons, and those political responsibilities which have arisen and have detailed responsibility and documentation in the finding and concern the entire political system that was built up. These responsibilities are involved in criminal responsibilities and are specifically personified. They are politically responsible. Those who signed on behalf of the leaders of their parties and as their representatives the fine loans. Those who misled with or without collaborators to creditors, to accept bilateral concessions or triple concessions, falsely confirming that it has never happened before. Those of the state mechanism that had made sure that there were no responses to the banks' questions as to whether other concessions were prioritised. There are such cases and they will be examined further. Those who were "forgotten" - of course in introductory terms - the existence of loans from their parties. Also, those named in the Ghost Report, the recovery of which is requested by the finding. Those who have orchestrated and executed the scandal of the rural Bank, with the appointed party presidents, according to their own confession before the committee. Presidents who were posted, as they have said, on an orderly service - that phrase exists, ladies and gentlemen, in the Minutes - and the loans to their parties have been multiplied on their terms of office. Political responsibilities, possibly criminal, have the faces of the leading core of PASOK, which will turn out to have known, received, managed, completely opaquely disposed of 15 million of fluid found to have remained in its funds. It is very much the amount to be detected in terms of origin and availability. The need for the investigation was understood by everyone, apart from the person directly associated, i.e. the representative who had in the committee the shape in which PASOK is currently involved. I hope that either he or someone else from his party, perhaps Mr Scandalidis, who, from what we have seen, was registered with speakers and was a major executive at that time, could now at least consent to the need for further research into this phenomenon. The fact that the core of the people they knew was very close and was in direct contact with the leadership revealed this very eloquently by Mr. Lambrou, who was a member of the Central Committee of PASOK and head of ATE in the years of the great "part". These are his phrases. I would like, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the government majority, to assure you that it is only now that a cycle of judicial investigation is taking place, which will produce concrete results. The decision taken by the committee at its last meeting, by a overwhelming majority and with the exception of New Democracy, to send the finding to the Prosecutor of the Ice Bay, means that those who are named, even for those who arise directly or indirectly, will, in the legal order, be called to provide explanations. On the basis of the evidence and documentation contained in the finding, we are absolutely convinced that many will receive the status of defendant either as self-government or as moral perpetrators. This is our answer to those who raised 'carbons the treasure!'. This is our response to those with irresponsible populism who are talking about covertly, not being able to or rather not want to understand the institutional outline in which we ought to move. Ladies and gentlemen, there are opinions that take precedence over matters which were not the subject of the committee. In these easy prosecutors, we say, there is no objection that the conflict has too many persons, that there is a great demand for punishment for the people. But there's a front that doesn't close here. There may not be the speeds we all want, but in fact every good-faithed citizen will note that the forefront of the interlocutory is and remains firmly open, constantly adding new findings, new dark landscapes are illuminated and illuminated, since the battle of the interlocutor has an absolute priority for the government. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, I must say, for those who did not have the opportunity to perpetuate the text, that a first gathering and recording of the criminal offences detected extends along with the oligology historical to dozens of densely populated pages. The finding is found by crimes such as felony infidelity, misappropriations, false assurances, frauds with moral perpetrators apparently benefited. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will conclude with one comment. Extreme views prevailed in the Civic Opposition once again. Citizens would expect a party that appears to want to rule on whether or not there were any illegalities or if all the things that write the conclusion were the result of a group offense and, above all, should explain, like the PASOK, the money that is due and how they will be paid. There's an opportunity today that will follow today to at least agree that the finding needs to go to the Prosecutor of the Ice Bay. At least this can be said and somewhat mitigate the image of its claim, that the epitome of interlocutory is SYRIZA, a view that you will, of course, also listen to its extensive opposition - if it were not so sad, it would be a comedy one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr Balomannakis. Mr. Dimitris Kammenos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u21	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this is an important day today both for the Greek Parliament and for the Hellenic Republic, but also for us younger Members, who two years ago have given an oath to uphold the Constitution and to work and vote in the interests of the Greek citizen, who is also our trustee. It is a very important day because, after many months of hard work, innumerable hours of study, writing and copying of practices through the room where the confidential information available to our committee was kept, we have managed and produced a finding that is a work that will always be a deposit in the Greek Parliament. No one can cancel this job and it will never be cancelled. I did not bring it here, because I could have misunderstood that I am doing it for reasons of impression to see the tumor. It is a huge task that has been done, and I would like to thank Socrates Famelos as chairman of the Committee of Inquiry from the beginning and Mr Balomenakis for following after the Minister of State, Mr Socrates, and it was a great honour for me to chair this committee. All persons invited should be recorded and reported. I shall therefore mention the list of witnesses, because it is important that they should be recorded in the Minutes of the House. It is very important, although the committee had a very large view and there was a great deal of interest both from the media and from the citizens for the entire examination process, that the Greek citizen should know who we have called and who the people came to be exposed - because that is how the law stipulates - and whether they adequately justify or not others being degraded as managers, some even as characters. I'm not afraid of words, and we'll talk about everything slowly. Mr Leonidas Frankiadakis, Managing Director of the National Bank, Mr. Fokion Karavia, CEO of Eurobank, Mr. Dimitrios Manjunis, Managing Director of Alpha Bank, Mr. George Poulopoulos, Managing Director of Piraeus, Mr. Alexandros Antonopoulos, Managing Director of the Bank of Attiki, Mr. Theodore Pantalakis, former Governor of the Agricultural Bank of Greece, who has given approximately 90% of the loans specifically to the major parties, who of course transferred to Piraeus Bank after the merger, Mr. Now we're going to the media. Mr.Ioannis Alafouzos, executive president of the SKAI, Mr. Fotios Bobolas, CEO of "PHASOS" and TELETYPOS, of MEGA, followed by bankruptcy, closure and everything we have seen. Mr Stavros Psycharis, who said "I will not come, I am sick", but he came to show us that he is alive and then his son came and the universe was degraded. Mr. Dimitrios Kontonias, former owner of the group ‘ALPHA’. Mr. Panagiotis Psykris, son of Stavros. Mr Themistoklis Aafouzos, brother of Mr Giannis Aafouzos, key shareholder of the newspaper "Kathimerini". Mr. Ioannis Kourtakis, publisher and major shareholder of PARAPOLITICA and "PARA NA". Mr. Dimitrios Stoubos, CEO at the publishing company "AGEI". Mr George Kouris, shareholder of the Alter television station. Here we say that he has more than 100 million of 'ALTER' and that - I note one, because we do not have much time, as I read the names - that Mr Kouris's complaints are one to one, or that he needs a public inquiry, or Mr Kouris, to be invited by those who complain about fraud, false conviction or a personal offence or those who are complaining about being summoned by the prosecutor. Mr. Kouri's complaints are incredible. It's all in the record. Mr Giannis Vardinoyannis, businessman at STAR, was also invited. The Bank of Greece was invited by Ms Papayannidou, Mr Paschas, Mr Provopoulou, former Governor of the Bank of Greece in a difficult period, within the memorandum. Mr. Ilias Tsigas, CEO of the MEGA. Mr. Ioannis Stournaras, Governor of the Bank of Greece. Mr Themistoklis Anastasiades from the "PRO theme", Mr Efstratios Liarellis from the "ANTENNA". Mr. Athanasios Skordas, Treasurer and Director-General of New Democracy, Mr. Nikolaos Salayannis, Director-General of PASOK, Mr. Dimitrios Dariotis, Financial Officer of SYRIZA, and Mr. Nikolaos Sophianos, financial manager of the Communist Party of Greece. I only said it about the Minutes, to see the scope and the first time that the SYRIZA - Independent Greek Government has managed - and this has to be done - to clarify the whole case and solve all the questions and all the shades of evidence that existed until the committee was set up, what happened with the money in Greece, the loans of parties and the media. Let me start with the parties, which for me are the most important, because they are pillars of democracy. We are the parties, those who decide for the citizens, and we need to set the good example and be, if you like, the good standards of good management of at least our finances and others. I will present my report with all the balance sheets of the two major parties, PASOK and New Democracy, from 1996 to 2001, in euros. The drachmas have all been made in euros. From 1996 to 2001 they have received regular grants from the Pan-Hellenic Socialist Movement EUR 77.3 million and New Democracy EUR 71.2 million. These are from 1996 to 2001. From 2002 to 2014: 197 million in PASOK, 197,800 million, almost the same money, New Democracy. Total regular, extraordinary financial assistance for elections, European elections, all years, 334.381.625 million for PASOK, 328.132.906 million for New Democracy. Total: some 700 million. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] These are the parties' grants. Watch it. A party produces politics, does not produce a product, and rightly so. When you have received, that is, the two major parties have received some 700, 680 million subsidies from the Greek taxpayer and at the same time you have received hundreds of millions of loans, of which you have paid a lot - and rightly so, we must not discuss it, that is, - but it is another 200 million complained, it means that we reach 1.1 billion. So, as the parties' balance sheets say - it is the full analysis there - it has passed from the hands of the two major parties over EUR 1.1 billion and we owe EUR 200 million. That's a bad picture. Our examination was introduced to check legality. It is difficult to prove the legality of lending, and that is why they did not come out, if you like, and we did not come out with the conclusion of pre-examination for political persons, especially on the "three" or "square" of interplay. But the picture is clear. The question is where did the money go? Where'd the money go, $1,1 billion? Euros? Who checked the balance sheets? Who checked where the money went? My question to both of us, both to the SYRIZA and to the JRC, was a key one and there was no clear answer: how did you make the decision - as a practical administrative order, as President-in-Office? - to ask for loans? Usually one company makes a board of directors and says: I miss 100 grand or 100 million to buy another company or pay a supplier or another for some other reason. The party why it asked for a loan of 20, 30, 40, 50 million a year when it had 20, 30, 40, 50 million a year? Where'd the money go? What is the justification? What do I want with the money? For election expenses? Oh, no. All the money was covered by grants. There are contributions from Members of Parliament. There are coupons, there are other revenues. The question 'Where did the money go?' It has not been answered and it is a huge political question. With our committee of inquiry, what happened? Banks have woken up and now says: Many years we haven't made a phone call to see what happens with the loans. Attica Bank had not taken a borrower for eleven years. Others since 2011 had stopped payments, no bank bothered them. Piraeus Bank was forced, and to its credit, but our examination did this to us, was the lever of political pressure and the lever of the truth to society - to denounce loans. The Piraeus Bank therefore reported the loan contracts of EUR 191,668.122 in respect of New Democracy and EUR 158,702.299 in respect of PASOK. Total: EUR 349.783.526. I've made my own notes, it's not one of the minutes, it's not classified. I'm filing it in the Minutes. We have reported 349 million to the banks. The political question, which rightly arises, is: What, you guys, with these loans? You're gonna pay for it? How? I said to the examination as an expert, if you would like, as a representative, as a politician and as a citizen. I will support your every proposal to go and regulate them together. We will support the entire House, because it is wrong to have a red loan or an unacceptable recovery loan for banks, which the taxpayers will be forced to pay for by an increase in the capital of the banks. To regulate, as provided for in the Code of Conduct, and we will all support it. However, there should be an effort, not to leave it to the 'nothing I discuss.' I'll come to the second party, which has dealt with us a lot. I am referring to PASOK. Here the political question is: When it was checked in PASOK in 2012 and recorded in the control contract - I read through the contract, but I will not leave it because it is part of the secrets - "The adequacy of the control procedures of the PASOK party is exclusively the responsibility of the Movement." - this is signed by the five audit firms and the PASOK - and hereafter says: "The execution of the above procedures by the consultant..." - the counsellor - "is not a audit or review, in accordance with international audit standards or international standards for the award of review work. For this reason, we will not express any assurances other than those set out in the report.’ What do the five auditors say that went there? That it's not normal to check. ‘It shall not constitute an audit or an overview, in accordance with international audit standards.’; Control was therefore called incompatible with international audit standards rather than control of the funds. ‘Are true and unmistakable elements found. Therefore, they will not submit verification procedures. Our report shall not be allowed to be used for other purposes or to be notified by the Movement and no one else.’; But now we're going to the "tabaker". Here are some very serious issues. I have read Mr Salayannis's letter, but it is not here. I shall refer to another time, because we do not have time to comment on everything. Two of the sworn accountants, who then checked and co-signed this check to the party in PASOK, say the following. I read from the jury exams. I stress that these are jury statements. The question was as follows: 'Is it consistent with prudent financial management rules with physical transfer and maintenance to the balance fund for two consecutive years at the level of EUR 15 million?' What does it say with just Greek? That there was natural transportation and maintenance of 15m euros. Answer: "Substantially not, because this leads to a loss of interest and, on the other hand, poses a risk of loss or theft." What about the controller? Question: 'Are you documented or given a justification for channelling the amount to specific expenditure?' Answer: 'No, we were not given an explanation of the existence of the balance or the use of part thereof for specific expenditure'. ‘You requested clarifications that while the State funding of 2015 had previously been allocated to four banks... etc.'??' ‘No, we were not given an explanation. These have emerged.’ I quickly close with the other witness, who testifies that: 'There were costs of moving and showing hundreds of thousands of euros without any evidence for the years 2008 to 2011. Expenditure was authorised by the same person - a cashier acting for payments, which is a significant weakness of the internal control system. We also found that there were no contracts with suppliers of services, i.e. provided a service without a contract submitted to the IRS, even though there was a large volume of trade with them. There were payments to natural persons only on lists, without supporting documents.... etc.’ I'm not leaving them for good reasons, because they're part of the secrets. What's going on here? There is a problem and the House has a responsibility. The House, as we have said in our proposals, must at some point do something. When a party is required to send its balance sheet or balance sheet to a committee of Parliament, the House, if there is a sworn accountant, must do something, not put it in the file. We are new MPs. So, if there's no evidence, what are we doing here? If my company comes to me and says he didn't find any documents, the next day he's booked me, he's taken me in, he's blocked my bills, I'm on personal detention for infidelity in the government. I guess that's when he's a public body. That was not the case in the parties. Parliament must also change the procedure for the control, certification and standardisation of all parties' controls from now on. No balances will be sent to a committee, read and entered into the file. When there's a problem, it has to be resolved at its source. For we are going to reach 350m euros from the complained conventions of the two major parties, which we do not know how to get them. I will not say that it was illegal or irregular how grants were given to the parties. There were issues, yes, because grants were granted over one year as not due, almost illegal. There were issues of internal control or justification of borrowing. About the media, I'll say something very quickly. The media have a debt of more than EUR 1 billion. Honestly, these days I do not understand the dungeon of the media about the drachma and Grexit, and I start and suspect this. When someone owes 150, 170, 200 million euros, will you allow me to speak - through the large television show on the drachma - to delete the EUR 170 million that he owes the public? We need to be careful. Canalarchs have a huge responsibility and because they influence the political life of the place and they used to influence decisions - they no longer can with this government - look at their jobs. For we see what happens with the "DOL" that closes. Those who stay must have good management. For those who close should watch out for the public, we should not go and blame them, if we have to, for fraudulent bankruptcy. Because fraudulent bankruptcy is in the game. When the other has 500 or 800 million outside and is bankrupt for 30 or 40 here or for 10 years and does not put them in an increase in share capital, then this is a fraudulent bankruptcy. He didn't put the money. So what do we do like a state? Five hundred, six hundred, seven hundred, a thousand workers stay. However, we cannot justify and justify in any case fraudulent bankruptcy by any entrepreneur or canalarch, who has played from a poll - 'air' supposedly, my heart - we have drawn the whole of the Independent Greeks! - or it has even been affected by decisions in works contracts or anything else. The value of the finding is enormous. It must not be degraded. I'm going to say it from the Step of the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u22	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u23	In the context of dignity, honesty and all my colleagues, I made the point about the change that took place in a paragraph. I did it, and that's how it had to be. Look, right now, nobody's being blamed for anything. But the seven hundred pages are a text, which is a deposit. I urge all Members to read it, all journalists especially to read it, and all Greek citizens to read it from the site of the Parliament, to understand what happened. Regardless of whether there were direct political responsibilities to do pre-inquiry, there are infinite responsibilities of criminal, criminal court, which will be exhausted.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u24	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u25	This is the victory of democracy. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u26	Thank you. Mr. Cassidy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u27	But, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u28	I'm sorry, Mr. Mateatakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u29	Within a short time, we'll be a second party.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u30	Okay, but wait, since that's what you think. Mr. Metarakis, excuse me. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u31	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, a SYRIZA - ANEL account is repeated today, a record that the majority produces and reproduces not from the mood of truth, but for obvious political purposes, which I shall analyse next. The New Democracy, consistent with its time-consuming principles of transparency in political life, voted in favour of setting up an examination, which gave the process increased legitimacy. I would like to remind you, of course, that this was not the case with SYRIZA, who voted against the New Democracy proposal to set up a committee of inquiry into the circumstances in which the country was brought to the third memorandum. This unfinishedness remains. The Committee of Inquiry as its subject-matter has control over political responsibilities, as well as issues of major interest and not the exercise of judicial or supervisory tasks. The final conclusion could have been only a phrase: “The responsibility of political persons has not been demonstrated. Furthermore, no extra-institutional interventions by political persons in the field of borrowings have occurred.’ That is, in fact, the position of the majority. This is SYRIZA's position and this is included in the official conclusion. But what proved to be the case in the nine months of the committee's operation? First of all, it proved that all parties, including SYRIZA and New Democracy and PASOK, received funding from the same banks in exactly the same way: with the sole guarantee of future state subsidies, with comparable credit limits, terms and conditions. So the majority crises on page 52 of the finding, which states that the parties were based on uncertain state subsidies, also concern SYRIZA. Secondly, as far as the media are concerned, there has been no political intervention to grant loans to them or preferential conditions. On the contrary, the Greek banking system's report on non-performing loans to the media is one of the lowest - as it emerged from the figures - at sectoral level, by abolishing the use of the term "seawater". Therefore, unjustified, the conclusion states on page 50 that the total of 1.3 billion to SMEs is mostly credited and unscrupulous. It didn't come up. As shown by the examination of the witnesses in the examination, the behaviour of the media did not differ from the overall picture of lending the other companies in the country nor did a systemic problem arise in the operation of the industry. Therefore, it is not a privileged treatment, as the finding suggests on page 57. For all the rest, for any specific infringements of Banking Law, there are of course the competent regulatory and judicial authorities. I want to correct the chairman of the committee. The New Democracy didn't disagree to take the finding to the D.A. We have said that it is the responsibility of the House and not the committee. It was purely procedural.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u32	State it now. Now tell me what you're gonna do.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u33	The text put forward by the majority finds ideological and subjective approaches. It's out of hypocrisy. In other words, it is as it suits us on a case-by-case basis, with any conclusions that are not based on facts and facts. Or worse, they rely on unvalued and arbitrary comments such as, for example, the statement by Mr. Kouris, who, while expressing full ignorance of his finances "ALTER", for the bankruptcy that cost half a billion said that for every loan to SMEs, he needed intervention by Prime Ministers, except for his huge loans that he received from the good, in his case, Greek banks. On page 59, ladies and gentlemen, the conclusion states: "No one claims that the banks were bankrupt because of the lending of parties and the media." Another myth of SYRIZA collapsed, as the shading of the memorandum collapsed and the end of austerity, the deletion of the burdensome and shameful debt, the famous moral advantage of the Left and the commitment to the protection of social rights. All those fundamental myths that raised the monster of populism and in their place the government cultivates lies, displays incompetence and imposes taxes. The New Democracy has submitted with a sense of responsibility a text of positions with thirty-eight specific findings. This is a detailed responsibility of the SYRIZA, demonstrating the issues on which you should at last give convincing answers. It emerged that one of the main shareholders of the newspaper “AGEY” is a foreign trust company, “Atlas Cyprus International Trust”, whose real owner and especially the origin of the money refused to reveal. Also, this is not a public record, as you said. This is evidenced by the invitation to increase the share capital of Dawn published in the FEK sheet number 83755/27.11.2013. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Panagiotis Mitarakis, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] But, ladies and gentlemen, this is a deeper matter, because the Dawn was a majority in SYRIZA. The financing of the Dawn is therefore an indirect financing of SYRIZA's own by a company of unknown origin. I would remind you that such cases of indirect financing would like the Greco report of June 2010 to be prevented in Recommendation 3. I am tabling the relevant passage in the report. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Panagiotis Mitarakis, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it has also been shown that Mr Tsipras himself in his letter of 14-12-2010 to the National Bank not only asked for SYRIZA to be borrowed in breach of bank lending rules, but most importantly it acknowledges that he knows in advance that SYRIZA did not fulfil the relevant financial criteria. He therefore asked bankers to know them, in violation of the legal lending procedures, in favour of his party. I'm filing the letter. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Panagiotis Mitarakis, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It emerged that if the newspaper ‘SGEI’ does not immediately increase share capital, it should be cleared with the responsibility of the Region of Attica, Ms. Duro. It emerged that in the past a debt cut has been made by a bank under opaque procedures. Not just that. It emerged that the loan of the Greek Left, which SYRIZA once claims to be a universal successor and sometimes renamed the same legal person, was bored to 60% while it was a mortgage, i.e. while the banks guaranteed the building of Koumoundouros Square. While, in committee, we were discussing the risk of not being able to pay parties and within, it appears here that this has already happened only in the field of the left and, indeed, twice. As I mentioned the building of Koumoundour Square, what has finally emerged is that it has come to your possession in a legal way, without transfer titles, without knowing whether the tax burdens and the corresponding fines have been paid for the delay and moderation, which contains fraudulent representations to the banks, which has happened precisely because the lending of SYRIZA could not have been done differently. It is particularly surprising that the majority's reference to page 384 of the finding that the property of the Freedom Square was offered for further security to the bank, but was not asked - it says - until now that the bank has registered an addition to this property. Yes, sir! Why this privileged treatment on the part of the national authorities, while you have arrears of debts? Why do you offer the building and they don't ask?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u34	Because we're paying.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u35	Because we pay dukes every month.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u36	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u37	In your conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, you say that you have offered it to the building. Why doesn't he take it? Whether they cover SYRIZA or the property status of the property is problematic. We expect answers and ask for answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u38	Is the loans going to give it back?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u39	I understand you're annoying. It's hard to find evidence and references on the pages.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u40	You're very welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u41	I get it. The titles should also be considered. Mr President, your protection.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u42	I've already protected you. Take it easy, ladies and gentlemen. Please don't answer underneath.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u43	Existion Clazumenidian suffocators! [[Noise in the Chamber]] You're trying to understand what I said now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u44	Don't make me intervene all the time. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u45	As we speak of the building, we must consider the titles and responsibilities of the Vice-President of Athens. In a question on how to register the property, the Minister responsible, Mr. Kontonis, informed us in writing that the Prime Minister will inform us, but Maximos answered us that he already has us - he says - covers the economic operator of SYRIZA before our question. I put the relevant question and the answers to the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Panagiotis Mitarakis, presents for the Minutes the above documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It also appeared that SYRIZA himself has gone into a double and triple assignment of state funding for the same year. See it on page 543 of the finding. It also emerged - and I will be closing with SYRIZA with this - that in the event of elections...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u46	Tell her who she is.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u47	Stop reacting, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u48	...and according to the percentages you receive in today's polls, it will be extremely difficult to meet your obligations. So the question arises:
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u49	Let it happen. First yours.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u50	Mr. President, I...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u51	Ms. Baja, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u52	For the first time in the Chamber, I can't talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u53	Please. Be quiet. The whole day will be in trouble. Very quiet, please. Leave Mr. Metarakis. He says it in a quiet manner and he becomes respected. You're welcome, Mr. Metarakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u54	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the question appears to be a reasonable one today: why did SYRIZA start this investigation process, while on the one hand he did not have any evidence to present - it appeared in nine months - and on the other hand he should have known that his issues would be revealed? The setting-up of the Committee of Inquiry was not an innocent case. SYRIZA's aim was to intimidate bankers to control the country's state and media landscape. This is confirmed by the recent interview by the Vice-President of the committee, Mr Kammenos, at the "First Theme". I would also like to address this interview. [[At this point, a Member of Parliament, Mr Panagiotis Mitarakis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I would also like to note, in passing, the letters of Salayannis and Karabia concerning the alteration of their own statements. The setting-up of the Committee of Inquiry and the way the majority Members have dealt with it creates a more general issue for the management of red loans and the sustainability of companies and jobs. No bank now agrees to go into reasonable arrangements, and we know that you, the government, intend to introduce an institutional framework to facilitate them, by providing immunity for the conduct of the conclusion. A relevant amendment had tabled a minority MEP, which I am tabling for the Minutes, and the government said that it reserves the right to table a ministerial amendment. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Panagiotis Mitarakis, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So we have the business world in a hostage, of course, except in cases where backs exist, such as, for example, the Kalogerica case with grazing and television licences or recently the 'DOL' case, under a new address - we have opened and we are waiting for you - but the treatment of which I understand is in an unfinished state. You're judging bankers that they made facilities for borrowers. So, what do you suggest, the first difficulty of shutting them down? Say it! At the same time, however, you welcome regulations in other cases, such as the Marinopoulos-Sklanitis case. Of course, the attempt to control the media area is not limited to the Committee of Inquiry. Let me remind you of the rabies attempt to control the television landscape by the anti-constitutional 'Pappa Law'. We see the intense attacks on instruments that disagree with your policy, such as the recent case with the "First Theme". We expect to see what pressures will be put on the opposition parties in the run-up to their own loans.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u55	Is this a competition from the PSE?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u56	A special reference must be made to Mr Koloudi's findings, which completely ignored the interpretation of the Ice Bay case law in relation to the offence of infidelity. He retrospectively judges earlier acts and determines them subjectively. However, it is interesting that, with the reasoning of the verbal reference today, SYRIZA would also be accountable, due to the rapid change in political data. However, the case was finally filed by the Prosecutor of Economic Crime, Mr Drakakis, who judged following the examination of new witnesses that no offences have been committed. It was not filed because of formal reasons or the ammunition of offences, as was badly said.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u57	Mr. Metarakis, you have another minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u58	Please give me three more minutes. I've been interrupted four times.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u59	I won't give you three minutes, but two, strict.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u60	I have not mentioned the New Democracy. As regards the loans of the New Republic, it appears that it was legally borrowed, in accordance with the financial data of the period, in accordance with the decisions of the institutions of the banks and the relevant regulatory acts of the Bank of Greece. We recognise that, due to an unforeseen change of circumstances, a matter of late payment has indeed been created, which is largely due to L.4304/2014, which imposed the drastic reduction of the State grant and has limited the allocation of funding for only one year. Because Samaras put the country over the party! Overall, to understand the size of the change, in 2009 New Democracy received 33 million, while in 2015 it was entitled to 5 million. The grant was reduced by 85%! When at the beginning of the crisis we owed 130 million, this is equal to four years of state grant. Since 2012, without any new loan - I stress this - the debt has reached the current level, and today all the effort is being made to repay the debt. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Kyriakos Mitsotakis - and I shall end with this, Mr President - has tabled a programme of economic consolidation, increased the contribution of the MPs by 50%, banned the future borrowing of the party, imposed assistance on the four hundred thousand members and launched a systematic financing campaign, a few of them. In addition, in the case of the New Democracy loans, it is obvious through judicial and extrajudicial procedures that the bank's commitment to recovery in full of the party's due debts.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, Mr. Metarakis. I need to interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u62	Let me just say one word, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u63	Just say one word.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u64	It must be stressed - and I close with this - that the Agricultural Bank has gone on overhauling the New Republic's borrowing interest rates, as soon as the crisis began, proving in practice that there is nothing wrong with the relationship between the New Republic and the banks. And in your conclusion, on page 381, you accept this reasoning. But do you know what hypocrisy is? You only apply it to SYRIZA's loans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u65	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u66	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u67	We are at the stage of the Committee's general rapporteurs so that the primary points of view are heard. Then five ministers will speak, but you too can. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty-four students and students and two educational attendants from the 4th High School of Livadia. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I would ask Mr Cassidyris to speak on behalf of the People's League - Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u68	The purpose of the present Committee of Inquiry was, as it has been proved and, as I will prove, with inconsistent evidence and documentation, the ultimate cover-up of scandals, the absolute cover-up of political persons who have committed felonies. The sole purpose of this committee of inquiry, on the initiative of SYRIZA - ANEL, was to clean up the political persons who have criminalised the public. Everyone agrees - and this is shameful - that all parties, other than Golden Dawn, agree here explicitly and out loudly that there are no political responsibilities. And yet, within this committee of inquiry for months, there has been a body of evidence against political persons, ministers and Prime Ministers. It is disgraceful that the representative of the majority of SYRIZA should appear here. Do you know how many intercepted names he gave to publicity? Do you know how many public life pimps he named? Absolutely no one. Not a single name was said. Not even one political person is saying that it has no responsibility, and we are the extremists who give political responsibility.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u69	You didn't hear well what we said.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u70	Please! It's so specific. It is disgraceful that this committee - I repeat, because we heard madness earlier, that it should not say that it has criminal responsibilities - has competence of a public prosecutor. Right now, I'm speaking as a public prosecutor. There is no room for micro-political controversies between SYRIZA and neo-democratics. I speak as a public prosecutor and substantiate political and criminal most of the responsibilities of criminal persons first with your own words. For the Greek people to understand what theatre is in this case, I will read - take note of me - the original conclusion sent by SYRIZA. We received it on 20 January by all the Members who participated in this committee in our e-mail. In the initial finding, therefore, in a file in the form of pdf 3.1 mb, SYRIZA was initially talking about rescinding debts of more than EUR 1,2 billion against ‘MOTOR OIL’ and ELPE for tax violations of 2010-2014 through triangular transactions involving the purchases and sales of petroleum products, through outshore intermediaries. In the conclusion of the conclusion you testified and took it back, the invisible hand that took it back and deleted the criminal responsibilities from Stournara, Samara and Venizelos. You said: It needs further judicial investigation, although the deletion of certified fines and collectors of tax revenue so high with an amendment by the former Minister of Finance Mr Stournara haunts and recommends the criminal offence of malicious infidelity to the Greek State. Where's the further investigation? Why don't you just go ahead with a pre-review committee? Just indications are needed to make a preliminary investigation. Here we have carabina evidence. We have Stournara's signature on deletion of debts of EUR 1.2 billion. That's the damage to the Greek state. It's a malicious infidelity against the Greek public. You shared this card at 3 o'clock in the afternoon, and the same evening the invisible hand intervened and deleted the name of Stournara and pages 403 to 409 of this particular finding. I therefore request an answer from the SYRIZA spokesman, who was previously thrown away and interrupted. To name us what this invisible hand is, who erased the name of Stournara, who would lead specific political faces - it was not only Stournaras Minister - for the fines in Vardinoyannis and Latsi. It was Samaras and Venizelos back then. Why is SYRIZA and ANEL today covering Samara and Venizelos? So name the invisible hand. Name the one who deleted the responsibilities of the criminals. Is it Tsipras? It's obviously Tsipras. No one else could, from a lower position, bring this criminal immunity to the detriment of those who have committed crime. It's obviously Tsipras. No one confesses. It is not the only crime that is deleted through this committee. Because I mentioned Stournara's name, I asked this person about the 'SIEMENS' case before I went to the parties' and canal loans. I asked his relationship with this company and his involvement in the 'SIEMENS' scandal, which cost the Greek public, according to the relevant committee of Parliament, 2 billion. That is to say, in my rough report, 1.2 billion from Greek Petroleum and MOTOR OIL, 2 billion from 'SIEMENS', 3.2 billion euros and no criminal responsibility for anyone. This factor has made the committee stronger. He insulted me and caused me, so that we could then stop his examination. Of course, as far as SIEMENS is concerned, I have to say that all parties, as you all agree today, and you agree and say - apart from the Golden Dawn - that there are no criminal responsibilities for political persons, so will you say about the 'SIEMENS' scandal. There's no criminal responsibility. The government lost 2 billion. It's nobody's fault. No one will go to jail from all those who stole the Greek state. I am going to the other scandal, to the major scandal resulting from the examination of the witnesses from the documents and documentary evidence submitted to the committee, and it is not the stolen parties that, before being investigated by the House, an honest prosecutor had recorded them. He had them wrapped in a glue that the people say. It wasn't a glue, of course. Kaloudi’s courtesy, the thoroughly populated Khaloudis report was multiplied and literally bound to malice malicious infidelity against the public. With regard to bank managers and managers and a moral automobile in this crime. The sentences are the same, they are twenty years in prison for party directors. I ask: is it possible for the directors of the parties, the economic directors of the PASOK, the New Democracy and the JRC - who would have gone to the interrogator, if it had not been for misinterpretation by means of an amendment, to go home rather than go to prison - to work without knowing the Presidents of the parties, which some of them were Prime Ministers too? No, of course not. I would remind you that we, the Members of the Golden Dawn, went to jail on the basis of interventions by the executive in justice. This has been substantiated within this committee - I will then mention the facts - because a lousy finding of a lousy and prosperous prosecutor said that MPs knew and knew what members, executives...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u71	Mr. Cassidy, please don't write about...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u72	As far as I'm concerned...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u73	Wait a minute, don't answer before I talk to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u74	Yeah, it's about D.A. Doyako.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u75	The judiciary, please...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u76	Prosecutor...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u77	Other than your politician policies...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u78	I'm sorry, Mr. President, you didn't hear the sound document that Prime Minister Samaras was calling this prosecutor and in an illustrious style he was given orders...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u79	You're very welcome. I repeat, as far as political persons are concerned, there is a political controversy here...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u80	Mr President, did you hear that? Did you see the Baltaku video? Does it look like the Ice Bay Attorney was controlled?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u81	For a judiciary, please agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u82	After seeing them, Mr President, and at the moment you had taken a position at that time. Why, Mr President, are you doing this today? Why have you been into this cover-up, too?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u83	Please consent to be deleted from the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u84	I do not consent to anything, because what I say is substantiating. Watch me. When a prosecutor gets calls from a Prime Minister to imprison his political opponents, he's not just a prostitute, he's not just a terrible criminal.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u85	Don't answer me. You're taking responsibility for this.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u86	I insist, and I don't consent to anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u87	Don't consent, but that's not a speech practice. You should know that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u88	I will, however, continue because the issue today is not Doyakos. I was talking about Kaloudi. The witness Kourtakis, Director of the "Taropolitans", came to the committee and stated that he was called by the former Prime Minister and said to him "downloaded the sound", where he has called the prosecutor and ordered him to prison MPs. In this case, then, Members were imprisoned after the call, on the grounds that they knew what members, executives and ordinary party fans had in mind. And this committee tells us that the Heads of the PASOK, New Democracy and the JRC did not know what the financial directors did. Let's be a little serious. There have been clear criminal responsibilities here for political persons, for whom there should be a pre-review committee to go to a special court and from there to prison. Those aren't my words. This was said on December 21st, the "number two" of your government, the Pope, the right hand of Tsipras, on public television. He had come out to ERT on December 21st, and he had announced that there was evidence for a preliminary inquiry committee. In fact, he said the words 'there were signs and monsters heard and they would not stay under the carpet'. Well, not only did you put them under the rug these signs and monsters that your Minister, your man, announced. You buried them under tons of mud. And it is not just about the Kaloudi finding, the criminal responsibilities of economic directors, are also the responsibilities of the Presidents of the parties that were Prime Ministers. On the basis of the Venizelos Act, the Law on the Responsibility of Ministers - which you announced you will abolish and did not do so because you too consent and participate in the continuation of the political corruption in Greece - we lead to impunity. In particular, the public's losses in this case are as follows: the current balances for PASOK and New Democracy are: 215 million of the New Democracy and 199 million of PASOK. In other words, it is EUR 415 million in loan and unscrupulous! According to the Supervisor of the National Bank, Mr. Easter, this money will never be repaid. I document my words: In 2016 the New Democracy received 1,199,000 euros. PASOK - DIMAR received 428,203 euros. When are they going to pay off the 415 million for which SYRIZA tells us that no one should go to jail? When a citizen owes 50 euros, they take home! When the parties owe almost half a billion, there are no criminal responsibilities for political persons! It's disgraceful and shameful, what it's called, what it's written. And you're accountable too, you have criminal responsibilities, because I mentioned the invisible hand before. The abuse of power also concerns a majority. The abuse of power concerns all Members who vote for this finding that clears the political faces. In particular, Article 239 of the Criminal Code: 'A staff whose duties are to prosecute or interrogate criminal offences' - here is a photograph of the Committee of Inquiry, which has the competence of a public prosecutor - 'who, in his knowledge, causes him to dismiss the punishment' - which is what is done with political persons, that is to say, you are giving your vote to release those responsible from punishment - 'to be punished by imprisonment of up to 10 years'.' I will sue those who vote for this disgrace, which is presented as a finding of a committee of inquiry. There are, of course, parliamentary immunity and the law on the liability of ministers covering political crime. How long before there's going to be? There will certainly be until the Golden Dawn takes over the rule of this country. Let me be watched by the people who are watching: 40% irresponsible has been introduced by the New Democracy for the state funding it receives. In other words, if it hadn't been for the moment, they would never, according to Mr. Easter, have I said in four hundred years. Now that there's the inconsistency of about half the state funding, they'll pay off in eight hundred years. And what's SYRIZA doing? It doesn't remove the irresponsible. And here comes Scorda's witness, Director of New Democracy, and in my question, "How will you get the money off your back? How will the stolen ones get back to the people?" It responds to me - and I think the human being meant it, and I do not know what this is about in this case and who has to deal with this - that we will do, he says, a trading department, as the People's Party in Europe did. And I ask him: 'What did they sell?' "They've been selling broccoli and pen" he's answering. With a breeze and a pen and a hay, I'd say, they'll get rid of the stolen parties and a travel agency, as he had told me! The position of the Golden Dawn here is clear and fully described in the finding submitted by the People's Association - Golden Dawn. We are proposing to abolish the incompatibility of the state financing of the parties and to seize everything, the offices, refrigerators, telephones - all of them 'SIEMENS' are in the big parties - the doors, the windows, the air, whatever they have and do not. To confiscate this money and go for the public, from which they were stolen. This is the position of the Golden Dawn. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] I am already very brief, and I cannot be shorter, because here I have enough evidence to present. Let me now refer to the channels. The channels borrowed 1,3 billion euros. It is incredible that these amounts are mentioned here. It's astronomical. It is shameful to see a false conflict between SYRIZA and the New Democracy, which does not mention a single name, as if the canalarchs who have convicted are anonymous. 50% of these EUR 1.3 billion have become due. Because of the presence of the Golden Dawn in this committee of inquiry, the canalarchs have been subjected to hard examination - we have not, of course, saved them like representatives of other parties - and have confessed to crimes. We had a confession of crimes, of course. We had the Bobola case. Look, Bobola confesses he was getting loans to pay interest. However, it appears here that a sum of this money - in fact EUR 10 million additional financing, refinancing for interest repayment - took it in 2016. That's the money he got on SYRIZA. When Golden Dawn comes to a conclusion, it gives criminal responsibilities to all Prime Ministers who have tolerated this criminal activity of canals, from Simitis to Tsipras, because also on SYRIZA, in the year 2016, Bobolas who did not know to say what he owes the public, took another EUR 10 million to pay - look, not to repay a loan - interest. This is an illegal act. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Of course, he didn't just take that money. With "AKORP" he has also taken public works, even the garbage from the prefectures, in Cyprus, of course, as I said to him. He forgot his brother somewhere, forgot his name. This was one of the unprecedented ones that we saw in this committee of inquiry: the Psycharis cannot speak, Bobolas forget his brother's name! So brother Bobolas in Cyprus is being persecuted for felony and in any foreign country and being arrested with an international warrant from Interpol. Only in Greece can they survive these saprophytes, unfortunately. Let me now refer to the Psychelles, who has confessed to crime. He said...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u89	Mr. Cassidy, you're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u90	Mr President, I cannot be shorter, excuse me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u91	You'll give the evidence to the next ones who will speak on your side.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u92	The next one has other facts, Mr President. Watch out for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u93	And what do we do? It's no different.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u94	I would like to explain something, because he is listening to a large part of the people right now. The members of this committee shall have the power of prosecutor and public prosecutor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u95	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u96	I was listening to Members from the SYRIZA and the New Democracy outside the Rules of Procedure earlier because they were talking about their micro-policies. I'm talking about criminal acts right now. I am documenting criminal acts and filing data in Parliament's plenary. I cannot interrupt, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u97	Please. I won't give you more than a minute, and then I'll interrupt you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u98	Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u99	I too, please, because it's a bad precedent for the next.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u100	We have the Psychelles case, which states that with air he was receiving loans. He admits he and his father met with banker Manjuni, who is being persecuted for malicious infidelity against the public. This is a confession of guilt. Here we have a confession, which should have directly sent him to the prosecutor and from there to the Corridal. Let me not mention the villas in Ermion, because these canaries were getting loans with signature, with the silent tolerance of all governments, even today, to take villas. The MEGA and ANTI film - note how the scandals and crimes - were described - was estimated at EUR 567 million from the channels and not from international houses, as they falsely say, when Alter and its trademark had been estimated at EUR 767 million. The witness Liarlis came here and says "I got 12,000 euros waged". And not half of the euro has been returned to the public! And when Alter went bankrupt, all the intangibles in the auction, the signals and the movie shops, zero euros! Let me also refer to his Sunday 'AND1', which I ask, and I would like an official reply from the President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u101	Mr. Cassidy, you're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u102	Why, Mr President, did the head of the ANT1 Group not come to the committee? Can you answer me?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u103	Do you understand what I told you? You're done. The rest of the evidence...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u104	Is it because Mr. Hadjikolaou came out yesterday...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u105	Stop talking and listen.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u106	No, I cannot stop talking, Mr President, and you have no right to stop me from speaking.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u107	No, you can because the President of the Golden Dawn and three other Members will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u108	Very good.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u109	Give the evidence there. I'm removing your word.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u110	They'll talk. They have other evidence that colleagues will be able to present...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u111	Do you understand me? I'm removing your word.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u112	Can you remove my word? Good. I accept censorship and give you my word that I will sit down. Please tell me, what invisible hand from SYRIZA has erased the criminal responsibilities of Stournara and I am sitting in my place immediately. Was it Tsipras? Were you, as President of the House?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u113	Be well!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u114	Who erased the criminal responsibilities of Stournara and threw the original finding and brought a new conclusion to which all corrupt politicians were cleaning up?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u115	Good!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u116	Answer me that. Give me that name and you have my word that I'll sit down.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u117	Through your rhetorical question, you said what you want...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u118	It's not rhetorical, unless you mean it's Tsipras, because no one else could stop this crime.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u119	You said what you want. Thank you very much. You don't have the floor anymore. You added. We're closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u120	Mr President, we have become accustomed to SYRIZA's public television censoring us. Now, are we going to get used to it in the House?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u121	Be well.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u122	I'm very well. You must not feel well after all this misguided covert criminal offences.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u123	We've been closed after 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u124	I just need a few more minutes to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u125	I do not fall to answer what you say at this level. You're done. Please, I'm taking away your word.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u126	I want to stress, by closing, the lies that refer to SYRIZA's finding.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u127	You've been closed four times.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u128	So SYRIZA says his loans and the JRC...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u129	Did you hear you've booked four times? Now what do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u130	...it's not due.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u131	What exactly do you want? Why do you keep doing this?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u132	So SYRIZA says his loans and the JRC are not due. That's what Mr. Lappas says about the conclusion we've distributed. But if you read...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u133	Please, you've closed! Please, remove the floor!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u134	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u135	Please, turn off the microphone!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u136	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u137	Bravo! 'Block the microphones!'
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u138	Bravo!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u139	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u140	Mr. Cassidy, sit down.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u141	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u142	Mr. Cassidy, in order not to create impressions, all this information has been given to public meetings. Understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u143	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u144	Long live democracy!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u145	Wait a minute, so you can listen. All this information in public meetings in detail and through Mr Cassidy has been heard.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u146	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u147	Now say it yourself!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u148	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u149	Stop!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u150	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u151	Nothing's been hidden. None of the evidence you mentioned is out of public interest. All in the committee's public meetings, in the investigation procedure that Mr Cassidy himself had for hours, have been heard. There was no censorship in any evidence, no person or any amount.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u152	All truths!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u153	So the repetition here beyond the year was just to create impressions and to stray the process. That's why I interrupted the procedure. Okay? To be explained. Democracy a hundred percent against those who deny it and you know it very well. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u154	It's good that the Golden Dawn is here and the people are learning!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u155	The next speaker is Mr Koutsoukos. You're welcome, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u156	No names are ever heard, Mr President, here.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u157	Are you going to submit to the rest of the parties the type of testimonial? Please. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u158	But let us allow those who call names to say so, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u159	And he exposed that. Your rapporteur spoke for twenty minutes, understood? And you have four other rapporteurs and you have been telling them for six months. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u160	In this Chamber, they have spoken about the winds and water. And for such a serious matter! Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u161	Please. Please. Well, your president will be speaking in a few hours. Please! Mr. Kutsuko, please, you have the floor. I'm sorry about the tension, but things have to get into place -- right? - from every point of view and to all.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u162	That is exactly what it is, Mr President, but I think the majority will be aware of this, which leads to a blind rhetoric of hatred and an attempt to achieve criminal responsibilities through manipulations of this type, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u163	PASOK! If that's possible!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u164	..................................................................................................................................................................... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u165	Go, fascist!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u166	Now what are we gonna do? Please! What are these things?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u167	You owe them a favor they don't have you in prison!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u168	Please, Mr. Kutsuko, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u169	Ladies and gentlemen, the country is at a very difficult time, trapped in the deadlocks of government policy. SYRIZA's account is constantly falling apart, day after day. And the hope he's given to the people is becoming a streak that drowns him. Dominances can lead to tragic developments. Mr Tsipras has often called for columns of his collapsed policy and socially dismantled influence in the supposed battle against interlocutory and interests. He has done so many times here in the House with two prior-day discussions on justice and corruption and any public intervention. Mr. Tsipras was bailing against interlocutory. He denounced, in his opinion, concrete scandals. This is where the Stepma presented the thirteen scandals of the previous government, but which she did not dare to abolish by a law and an article, as the memorials would be abolished, when Mrs Gennimata caused him. At the same time as the government was fighting the complexion of the former, it is understood that a whole project of resilience of interest is under way and SYRIZA, along with his extreme right-wing partner, is immersed in all kinds of media delegations, in exceptional assignments, in efforts to control the media, that is to say, to turn the rhetoric of the complaint into control by the media, to find new support for the extension of his stay in power. The design for the examination of the loans of parties and of the media, the conclusion of which we are discussing today, in addition to the diversion of subjugation of a collapsed policy, was at the same time serving two other objectives: to retroactively justify a minority political force which has become a force of majority from combining the effects of the crisis and lies, highlighting the so-called 'triangle of interoperable', banks, the media, parties, as the decisive factor in shaping the political correlations of post-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-mperialisms, and in particular PASOK, in the desperate attempt to prevent a change in political correlations. However, history, ladies and gentlemen, cannot be rewritten by an opportunistic majority, which even has as an internal component those responsible for the country's financial derailment in the period 2004-2009. With regard to political tactics and the purposes of political survival and power, SYRIZA has used us to a point in jeopardizing every time the country's fates. However, as regards the correlations between post-population and, above all, the wide range of change, this view is neither left-wing nor progressive, as it ignores the social data and ideological flows that have defined developments. The Government representative's promise that the battle against interlocutory is now beginning to prove that at the audience to which SYRIZA is addressed, no one is convinced that the conflict has been struck - otherwise - and so a new start has to be made. But the majority of SYRIZA - ANEL is not only a new beginning, but it is the tombstone of the pit that SYRIZA systematically dug up to get himself in. I will explain this political assessment in detail on four main axes: one is the impartiality of the finding, which does not exist. The second is the one Mr Balommenakis said 'carbon the treasure of political responsibility'.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u170	We said the opposite!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u171	The third axis is the targeting of PASOK and the fourth is the concealment of SYRIZA's finances and the upcoming economic bankruptcy, beyond your political and ideological bankruptcy. On these four axes I will be placed and, if you will, listen to them, so that you are not politically responsible, and you have criminal responsibilities for your party's upcoming bankruptcy, Mr Balomenakis, as you have accused the previous ones. So I come to the first issue of impartiality and objectivity. The Committee of Inquiry started, and Mr Lovers tried to lay down certain rules, so that the Committee of Inquiry into the context of the witnesses' questions and the procedure could function. And at the end he tried to draw joint conclusions, if not on estimates, at least in the legal context, quantifications, and proposals to overcome the problems. You rejected all this because you had decided to make one of your own findings. Of course, it is not the SYRIZA colleagues who participated in the Committee of Inquiry, but another centre, the centre of Maximos. That's why there were the multiple leaks with conflicting results, and that's why you got rid of them. In other words, you served in a stitching of the conclusion with a curious, if not unexplainable, for us, scorching that someone else was coming in and out. Stournaras came out, Anastasiades came in. That's the cut-off you've made to draw the final conclusion. You refused to examine witnesses, to protect government officials, such as the examination of Mr. Davarakis who had declared that he was taking money from Mr. Pappas for the instrument, to promote SYRIZA's policy. In fact, our Member, Mr Papatheodorou, has tabled a timely question to Mr Papa from November asking him to tell us which fund he paid Mr Davarakis. This question is retabled every week and Mr Pappas refuses to come to Parliament. And because I have heard from the President that he will speak, I address him the challenge of telling us today what fund he paid for Mr Davarakis. You also denied the witnesses Giannikos of ‘ALTER’ and Economics of ‘ELLEROTYPIA’. Really, who did you want to protect? Ladies and gentlemen, you have finally chosen the results of the exams since 1989, which throws Parliament's level down and plunges into public opinion the results and prestige of the exams. A characteristic example of your conduct - which is why I am referring to bias - is the non paper released on Monday night, on the 23rd of the month, the Maximos Mansion, which left suspicions of a malicious character and criminal responsibilities, altering all the content of the finding. And it is to wonder how before the finding of these seven hundred and seventy pages was cleaned, there in Maximus to read it and get this non paper out. Have they been so long reading these millennium memoirs that so quickly they read and draw conclusions? I'm saying this to prove that there was no impartiality, but instead there was planning. Second axle. The conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, is now making known and repeats well-known facts. I am saying this because from the information known until the Committee of Inquiry, i.e. from the Prosecutors' Prosecutors - two, Mr. Kaloudi and Mr. Dratsis, from the report of the Bank of Greece which was ordered on the basis of an order, but also from the information of the parliamentary procedure - which I tabled here in April, when we were discussing the setting up of a committee of inquiry - all the figures, such as the amount of loans, were known, and what the delays were on them, were. In fact, it was well known - Mr Papagelopoulos said - that there have been criminal persecutions and prosecutions. These were known and these are repeated in the conclusion. All witnesses' statements confirmed this, ladies and gentlemen. And unfortunately - for you, unfortunately - you were unable to substantiate from the statements and the evidence that there are political responsibilities of individuals, as it turned out that all lending and procedures had been done on the basis of the legislative framework governing the banking system and the decisions of the banking institutions. So your plan collapsed to render criminal responsibilities. All that has proven to be about is the responsibility of SYRIZA and Mr Tsipras, because his well-known letter - 2010 - was the only political intervention that existed in this process. It also collapsed, through and through this process, this thousand-year-old SYRIZA propaganda, the ANELs, fascists of all forms and populists and their partners, that the loans of parties and media are responsible for bankruptcy, for the crisis, as, ladies and gentlemen, these global loans are about 1.7 billion when all loans are over 200 billion, and due, non-performing loans are at 50%, 107 billion. Compare sizes to draw conclusions and see where populism and propaganda lead, which ultimately turns against democracy itself.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u172	Is that what the finding says?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u173	That's what it says, Mr. Lappa. That's what he says! Unless you didn't read them well, you who wrote them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u174	Mr. Lappa, please don't interrupt. You'll talk then. You're very welcome. Do not write holidays underneath, unless they are caused by the speaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u175	And congratulations that you're so tired of writing it, because we knew it! Ladies and gentlemen, it emerges from the finding that the parties and the media have pursued a policy of excessive lending in the period of fat cows. And from this process, none of those who are in this Chamber are incapable of swinging their fingers on others. And, Mr President, Mr Tsipras has announced an initiative to tackle the overdue media. The Group of the European People's Party has proposed to him today an inter-group committee and we expect this initiative to be taken in the interests of freedom, pluralism and public interest. My third point, the third axis to be placed, is the bias against the PASOK and the targeting. All of us, ladies and gentlemen, know that the tops have come down in the public life of the country. From this rule, of course, PASOK could not be excluded, because only it took responsibility for the country not to go bankrupt in 2010 and paid it, under the orchestra of the lies, by dramatically reducing its electoral percentages. If this overthrow had not occurred, with the data brought about by the crisis, the State grant of PASOK would be 20 to 25 million per year and would have no problem meeting its obligations. So you devoted to PASOK the most space of the findings. Fifty-one pages for PASOK, only twenty-four pages for New Democracy and only six pages for SYRIZA. Angel Society! And you have done this to target us and tell us that we, ladies and gentlemen, have wasted both our management and our electoral expenditure. With today's measures, yes. But let us remember how the elections were held before 2010, ladies and gentlemen, in a simple arithmetic way: So let's take it as a turning time in 2010. The PASOK had operating expenses of 25 million and 45%. SYRIZA had operating expenses of 4.2 million and 4.5%. So, PASOK had 500 thousand costs for each unit of its percentage, and SYRIZA had 1 million for each unit of its percentage twice as much as PASOK and you blame us for waste? Have you read these in SYRIZA's balance sheets, Mr. Lappa and Mr. Balomenaki? Let's go to the vote: PASOK in 2009 with 45% ruined 24 million, while SYRIZA at 4.5%, 2.5 million, i.e. about 500 000 per unit, and you and me. Why were we spending more and wasted, and you didn't? And I can go on if we want to get all the elections, so you can tell us how much you ruined your 2015 election campaign, which we don't know yet. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, listen, because I am a accused person - not myself, PASOK - some of us also have criminal responsibilities, with what Mr Balommenakis said - you know that the courts give more time to the accused.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u176	Completely. From morning to night.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u177	No, no, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u178	I mean, there, in court. Only we agreed on a procedure here.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u179	We agreed. I'll be...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u180	You've got three minutes, Mr. Kutsuko.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u181	So I'm talking about excessive lending. PASOK with 45% had 110 million in 2009, while SYRIZA with 4.5 million. This means that PASOK had borrowing 2.4 times above its rates and SYRIZA 1.8. And because SYRIZA could not respond, you also received the 8.5 million loan with Mr. Tsipras's well-known letter. You have forgotten this in your conclusion, as you have forgotten that PASOK with Law 323 made political decisions, in order to reduce the electoral costs that led to overlapping, that PASOK voted to reduce the electoral subsidy, L.4304/2014, which you voted against and took the previous one to transfer your percentages to get a loan. But, ladies and gentlemen, you have made a stumbling block, a very important blow: in order to draw the conclusions and conclusions you wanted, you have distorted Mr Salagiannis's statement and he was forced to send a letter to the President of Parliament on Monday. And you twisted it in four parts: The first point is what your conclusion says that PASOK never paid anything. Mr. Salagiannis has submitted the balance sheets showing that in 2009 and 2010 we paid 61 million, he has provided evidence showing that in 2013 we paid 2,300,000, that in 2014 we paid 820,000 and that in 2015 we paid 900,000. It also says that we are still serving our loans and as long as we live and breathe and our children and grandchildren, we will pay and how when our rates grow, it seems, we will serve in better terms our loans. That's what Mr. Salayannis says and you hide them. You also hide what Mr Salayannis said, that the assignment made by Mr Spiropoulos, involved expected state grants of 20 to 25 million and not 20 million as you write. In particular, ladies and gentlemen, you say what Mr Balomenakis has said with an extra effort - I would like to say - the shame here - that there were 15 million in the PASOK fund.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u182	It's called five auditors.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u183	And Mr Salagiannis and the audit firms have said that this was accounting. And this account came from 2007 and was depreciated in the books. And Mr Salayannis has said, 'I wish we had that money'. Finally, you have concealed Mr Salayannis' statement that in this audit he carried out and in his balance sheet at the conference before four thousand people, he did not say anything about management responsibility. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I wish to come to your responsibilities and to SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u184	Please, it'll be just for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u185	If, ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of the polls presented, you get 20% - but it is certain that you will get the following - the total of your revenue, together with the contributions of your Members, will not exceed 3 million. SYRIZA's operating expenses are 4.5 million. How will SYRIZA work? That is why I referred to bankruptcy, to your responsibility for bankruptcy. I say this so that you don't easily draw conclusions and blame others. We, ladies and gentlemen, know that at the moment when you are accusing us, is what I said earlier, a resurrected interest, mediation, contracts and so on. that you've been spoiled early on, that you've been deep in the complexion. We therefore call on you, as a majority, as Members of Parliament, if you really have the objective of struggling with it - and I do not believe that you have any interest in taking responsibility for those who break up public works to get the jobs, the guarantees, to go to Attica Bank to set up the 'SYRIZA Channel' - to place yourself and take responsibility for the fact that your party paper has an offshore shareholder. And we challenged you to say who she is and you didn't tell her. For all this, you have a responsibility too. In conclusion, Mr President, we have heard about the interlocutory issues since 1989, as well as Mr Karamanlis' s souvles. Conclusion didn't come out, it didn't work out. Do you know why? Because one is chasing the other, so we're always at the same spot. If, ladies and gentlemen, you want to talk about the major overturns that will restore the political system, the major institutional changes, there must be a change in political correlations, to impose another national understanding policy that can take the country out of the crisis. Otherwise, we'll, unfortunately, boil in our dough.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u186	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u187	A posteriori...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u188	What kind of hysterographs in the 20 minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u189	Mr Balomenakis, can you tell us which page or what pages of this finding are the criminal responsibilities of associated leaders, this slander that you have slandered from here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u190	I can, but the President must give me the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u191	And why as chairman of the committee...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u192	Shall we start a new minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u193	...on the basis of Article 147, have you not exercised your investigational duties to call them into committee and write in the conclusion of their responsibilities, rather than exerting a slander of this one?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u194	You'll get your answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u195	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u196	Mr President, 20 minutes have been spoken by my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u197	Twenty minutes, okay. This does not create a precedent for everyone else. Mr Nicolopoulou, please very much because you said this about "fucking morning", a little, the "20 minutes". Everyone feels the need for his party or, on the contrary, from what we have heard before, for all the other parties to say more. I repeat that these meetings have been held for months in public and have also received comments from the press, the websites, in panels. There are no elements on the inside that are not heard here and in this sense is the legitimate requirement that the Member should listen to matters and not be hidden. They've heard, they've been documented, they've been commented. Today it is a political debate on the substance, and that is why, at a much less time, everyone can carry out the information they have to present. And that is why it will be a matter of rigour. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, thirty-five students and students and two teachers from the 4th High School of Livadia (first Chamber). Today you have your honour as Livadia. We wish you all the best. We welcome you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I would ask Mr Karathanasopoulos, a representative of the JRC, to speak. You have the floor for 15 minutes, if you can, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u198	I'll be in time, Mr. President. For another committee of inquiry it proved that the treasure was carbon. Not only was there not complete transparency, but, on the contrary, the formation but also the operation of this committee for the dual objective of coverage and disorientation has also been exploited. At the same time, the opportunity was given - as today - for a meaningless confrontation between the parties of the government on the one hand and the other parties in the opposition. It is not much easier for the most criminal part of the system, what is the murderous hand of the capitalist system, the Golden Dawn to appear as the prosecutor of everything, trying to cover up its criminal, murderous character, which is also derived from its actions, but also from its nazi ideology. And we say "a pointless controversy", because here some people and during the long meetings of the committee, but also today, you are as if suddenly discovering the fire. You talk about interconnecting the banks with the media, with the rest of the businesses, of interconnecting the banks with the political power as if it were something unprecedented for you, the unprecedented, as if there were or would not exist in the future as long as the capitalist system prevails and as if it were a phenomenon that we are dealing with in the Greek political system alone and not elsewhere. From this point of view, we do not say that all this debate certainly did not have a basis. The basis, of course, is the complexity, is the interconnection of political and economic power. Through this complexion there are also favourable treatments - financial and not only - on the part of governments to business groups and to capital as a whole, but also of capital as a whole, support to parties - the parties concerned - of civil management which, through their policy, legislate and serve the interests of capital. From this point of view, the main role of the committee, but also of today's debate, is nothing more than a hopeless attempt to cover the causes of the capitalist crisis, which is in the system's own DNA, to cover the nature of the capitalist system itself as an unjust, exploiting system, which not only in the period of the crisis destroys productive powers and first and foremost the working class, but also in the period of growth it destroys productive forces, creates, through its economics laws, social polarization, that is, the accumulation of socially produced wealth in less and less hands and, at the same time, condemns the direct producers of wealth, the working class and the rest of the populace. This is the very exploitive, unfair and parasitic character of the capitalist system you are trying to vomit. And this, because you want to cultivate the illusion in the world that with a different management, or if the scandals, strife, or if we are more effective, and with fewer deficiencies in management, the world may suddenly live with dignity at the moment when the monopolistic groups dominate, when capitalist profit is the main responsibility, the main cause of problems and suffering, which the working class faces and the popular family as a whole. This way, what are you doing? You are trying to cultivate illusions, highlighting adequate, individual aspects of the problems, but these aspects are intertwined - both scandals and conflict and corruption - with the exploitive and unfair nature of the system. Capitalism at the imperialist stage - much more - is unleashing wars, destroying people only to dominate the markets, exploiting wealthy sources and destroying the working class itself with unemployment, destroying productive forces and not creating scandals? But his own existence is a very big scandal. From this point of view, of course, all this effort to cover the causes of the problems, namely the cultivation of illiteracy, is being done in order to cultivate the impression that there can be a different way of dealing with people's problems. So, through this process, through the exacerbation of confrontation, exactly what you intend to do is to disorientate and manipulate the people's discontent, and much more at a time when it has been confirmed that the continuation of the negotiation in the context of the second assessment and its completion in the next period - if this negotiation is completed - will mark the escalation of the anti-grass attack and the issues relating to taxation - new tax measures, tax raids on the working class and the people - and on the issues of insurance and labour relations, and on the whole of the labour market and their settlement. At the same time, it will mark the creation of all these reforms that form an even more favourable field for the activities of monopolistic groups. Even if, through the closure of the second assessment, the repayment of the State debt is diminished, this reduction in the repayment of the State debt will not only lead to a relief for the people, not only will it not stop the bloody primary surpluses, but will mean the memoranda of the working class and the wide folk layers. And all this is in the interests of saving resources on the part of the urban state, so that it can finance, from better positions, directly the capitalists in the context of the'so-called development laws' or to implement Mr Tsakalotou's commitment that a reduction in primary surpluses will be translated into a reduction in tax burden, tax rates for monopolistic groups, for capitalist companies. At the same time, this disorientation is trying to cover up the strategic partnership that you have with SYRIZA and New Democracy - and not only you, but also PASOK and the other Euro-mono street parties - in the strategic choices that today meet the needs of big capital. The current government is doing nothing but legitimise the policy of the previous governments. That is why it is no coincidence that it has abolished any laws of the previous governments. On the legislative framework, the reactionary, anti-grassroot, the classic that previous governments had shaped in the first and second memorandums, came and "walked" the third memorandum, which was passed by all these Euromono street parties, the parties serving the interests of capital. Just this strategy of convergence, your strategic conclusion, you are trying to hide it from the people, by cultivating individual controversy which, of course, are not related to the problems and the anti-grassroots attack, the classic character of politics, but who will take credit from the creditors, from BSE, from our country's urban order, who can be the most effective manager in implementing this classic and anti-grassroot policy. That's what the fight is about. At the same time, not only should you take the credit, but also entangle the popular discontent between Scylla and Harybden, to incorporate it into such policies, which are the instrument of worsening the position of the people. Do you really have the impression that there can be objective information when the information is in the hands of capital, collective and individual? We don't have that delusion. Is that ever possible? The fact that information has been used precisely for this purpose, in order to manipulate the people, in order to mitigate and make the system even better, and at the same time to be able to manipulate popular discontent, manipulate the popular conscience, to unleash any radical idea that has shaped all these years and much more the need to overthrow the system of capitalism for the benefit of socialism and the socialist revolution. That has always been the purpose. And the state media and - much more - the private media had the same goal: the exorbitance and acquittal of the system. And it could not be done differently from the moment the information is in the hands of the capital. What kind of business is active in the media? Do these operators at the same time not have any other activities? They are shipowners, they are involved in the refining of oil, they are involved in construction and a number of other sectors. So when they have the media, will they not try to protect their interests and promote the interests and other branches of their economic and business activity? Are they going out and report the work hostage that exists in a number of branches? Is it ever possible for these media to do that? In this respect, therefore, it is clear that each government, the governments concerned, were trying to shape a favourable area, to have a favourable attitude from the media. Of course, the state media since it was a government have checked them, as they are now controlled. At the same time, however, the private media tried to create a more favourable environment for dealing with governments. How did that happen? Through different ways: they supported them financially, they supported them politically, they supported business, they formed a working environment toward workers in the media, journalists, technicians and the rest of the staff who reversed labour relations. Of course they were trying to redistribute the pie. Today, precisely because of the capitalist crisis and the impact we are in a process of prolonged redistribution of pie between business groups that want to act in the media, literature and electronics. The government plays a leading role in this releasing the pie, among the old businessmen who are active and those who want to be active. What else do developments promote, for example, 'doll'? What else do the competitions carried out on the part of the Government for new television licences do they intend to do? It's just an attempt to intervene directly with the government in sharing this pie. [[Mr DIMITRIOS KRIMASTINOS]] Thirdly, the work of the committee not only on the tree, but also on the branch of the whole problem. Because total lending and red loans are a very large number. Business loans are EUR 145 billion, of which 45% are non-performing loans, are red loans. What did the committee do? He was only employed with 1.8 billion euros. EUR 1.4 billion is the media and EUR 400 million are the parties, of which 45% are red loans. The branch has dealt with the problem. We do not say this to acquit the media or the banking system or much more of the parties that favoured the loans. But instead, through this process, what did you want to do? You wanted to bang this financial system. What's the financial system? The heart of the economic system, the capitalist system it finances, does not deprive the rest of the capital because it forms part of the total capital. And you don't know that banks own shares in other companies, create other subsidiaries that are active in other sectors of the economy, that large bank shareholders are also large companies that are active in other sectors? So, you don't know this symphony? Now you find out, or is this only a Greek phenomenon? As much as it is not a Greek phenomenon, the problem with the favourable lending of monopolies, the problem with red loans, is not a Greek phenomenon. Really, how did Ireland's debt triple? Through the conversion of the private debt of red loans into a state debt. The same happened with Portugal. With Cyprus, what happened? Didn't the deposits get tired of saving the banks with the convenience of lending? In Greece we had a similar phenomenon. In Italy there are accumulated skeletons in the financial system and their foundations are trimmed. So it's not just a Greek phenomenon. From this work, if something has been proved, it's just diversity. That is why I made a distinction between business loans - and indeed only those that we had to deal with - and loans to people's households to the people's families, because it was the classic way of dealing. Businesses provided abundant money on favourable terms, without safeguards or minimum safeguards, while unlike households on non-favourable terms, at high interest rates and with guarantees they provided the housing loans at the first home or at the property they were building and secured by banks. And there can be no criticism of the claim that it was too much of the loans and that they had higher operating costs for the banks that were treated, because if it breaks up a large loan to a large business group, the risk to the banking system and the bank is much greater. But, on the contrary, through the popular savings, through the high interest rates paid by people's households and their long-term hostage to banks, banks were making cheap money to fund capital and capitalists and, at the same time, to support New Democracy and the PASOK, because that is exactly what comes out of this process. Support for the political system towards the banks and the rest of the capital all these years there has been and there has been a reflection, precisely because the governments supported, the political system supported, legally, financially and in every way, the business groups and at the same time...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u199	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u200	...they financed it and supported it through favourable bank lending, which exceeded the limits of state funding, was made at favourable terms and favourable interest rates and at the same time without any guarantee and guarantee. In order to be able to rely on it? To strengthen these parties, to give political battles under better conditions to create the well-known bipartite system through the flood of advertising, through the transfer of the hetero-democrats to vote for free at home, therefore through the distortion, even more so, of the unjust electoral system and the creation of a specific bipartite system. And from this point of view, of course, the instability of political and economic power is too flat, it is not going to be mentioned either in today's circumstances or in tomorrow's. The JRC was forced to resort - and I conclude with this, Mr President - to bank lending to enable it to meet its needs. And he did so under particular, painful conditions and indeed, as he confirms the finding itself, with very strong guarantees and guarantees of the banks themselves, whether through state funding alone or through a guarantee of real estate. And today, we are making an even greater effort to get rid of bank borrowing much earlier than when the loans expire...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u201	You're welcome, Mr. Karathanasopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u202	For this very reason, Mr President, the conclusion of the Kaloudi has absolutely no basis for the JRC. This also appears from all the Bank of Greece's reports that they are information loans, that there is full assurance and that they are normally served. And from this point of view, it is absolutely unfounded that the Calodis report on the bank lending of the JRC is unfounded. We, from this point of view - and I conclude with this - say that there is certainly a number of conclusions, assessments and evidence, which are on the table and which need further investigation by the competent prosecutors and judicial authorities.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u203	Ladies and gentlemen, if the time provided for in the Rules of Procedure is not respected, then the sitting will be extended much beyond 1.00 hours at midnight. So the request is that we keep the time to operate within the intended parliamentary time. The next rapporteur is Mr Saridis of the Union of Centres. Please, Mr Saridis, you have the floor for 15 minutes, like the others, each of whom, however, is trying to break 15 minutes, so that we have what I said before.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u204	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, what was the purpose of the committee, what did it consider and why? Her name tells us her purpose was to investigate. In fact, the investigation of the loan. Who? The political parties and private media companies. So the name of the committee does not clearly explain to us what it was looking for, but it only sets us a very strict framework for where it should look. Whatever we were looking for as a committee, we were looking for it in a very specific context, that is, strictly speaking, for loan contracts between banks and political parties and between banks and the media. Only there could we look for whatever we were looking for. In fact, there was a time-limit from the outset, as the committee could examine only banking contracts for the period 2002 until today. It is therefore advisable to clarify immediately from the outset, as is appropriate to every responsible parliamentary power, what we were looking for in room 162 and testimonial statements, to say, in every tonne, that we are seeking to determine whether they exist and whether there are criminal responsibilities of political persons. At the same time, we would also try to show any political responsibilities which, by definition, concern exclusively political persons and are punished solely by the citizens in the polls. We were therefore looking for responsibilities as a Central Association. It was responsibilities that we were looking for. We wanted the same way as all Greek citizens. And because we believed and continued to believe that this was what all the members of the Commission had to look for, we have raised the need for unanimity in the work of the committee. Sadly, however, our concerns that the first three unanimous decisions taken by the committee would be the last with the consent of all parties. We were aware that the consensus which was based, at first, on the establishment of the committee was imprinted and falsified. No one really wanted this committee. This committee would only create problems. However, it would be impossible to argue in favour of the view that Greece was never involved, if it were not even an attempt to find it. So the only reason, in my view, that the decision to set up this committee was that you could not do anything else. How will you justify to the Greeks the possible refusal of Parliament to make a decent effort to make responsibility? That's why you agreed. Our second unanimous decision in committee was when we agreed on the public and live television broadcasting of the meetings of the committee from Parliament's Channel. That's a fake, and that's a unanimity. Another wanted to promote, another wanted to increase his readability, another wanted to demonstrate his professional qualifications, another just wanted to ensure that the ball stays on the platform, another to make sure that questions remain unanswered. No one seemed interested in maintaining unanimity. The parties, however, accepted public and living witness examinations because they could not do anything else. How will you convince the citizens that you are serious when you say everything in the light if the meetings of this committee were closed, secret, secret? So again, we have reached agreement on this issue as well. Finally, there was a third consensus. It was up to us not to get paid, not to receive a reward for our participation in the work of this committee. That decision, if it were compulsory! How do we say we get money to do the research that the Greek people needed together? How can you argue that you are sincere in your efforts to find the truth if you were to pay to do so? And the third, then, and unanimous decision of this committee has come out of need. Needlessly it came out, because we didn't have any arguments to make any different. In my assessment, the fact that the parties only agree on issues that the Greek people have clearly shown what one thinks should be measured when attempting to examine the positive results of the committee's work. Ladies and gentlemen, the committee of inquiry did not have the power to produce a legal result, as we said - for responsibilities, political and criminal responsibilities. Political responsibilities have been demonstrated by the New Democracy and the PASOK. Political responsibilities also have a large part of SYRIZA, which, as a Member of your Parliament said, has been 'PASOKed', following the same course as the previous ones. It is simply because it appears from the evidence in Athensis 162, that the amounts of borrowing were directly depending on the years in the chair of power, as far as you are concerned, it is easy to understand why your two-year burden was pale in front of the total cost of Postpopulation. We have taken it out without a law to lend parties and media, with temporary licences for television channels and banks to give credit and unscrupulously. They're inconceivable in sizes. In democracies, however, political responsibilities are identified exclusively by the citizens and attributed exclusively to the polls. The two former major parties of postmopulation will accompany the arguments they have put forward once again here today, namely that there was no complication in Greece. The political responsibility of this claim is great. And I am sure that when they vote, the Greek citizens will remember that officially, the New Democracy and the PASOK claim there was no complication in Greece. As will be remembered and what SYRIZA - ANEL will finally do today with the conclusion of this committee of inquiry. However, criminalisation of political life, with pretentious injustices of the past, in order to cover the government's incompetence, will be a major blow to the already severely injured credibility of the Greek political system. So these are political responsibilities. Conclusions are drawn. A date on the cellar. But let us come to criminal responsibilities. Criminal responsibilities of political persons have not been identified. That's for granted. Criminal responsibilities of non-political persons have been identified. And that's for granted. However, as it is not Parliament's job to replace criminal courts and to investigate illegal political acts, we also voted in favour of sending the conclusion to the prosecutor. Some things should just take their way, as the law for every Greek citizen provides. There is neither more rights nor less rights for a publisher, a bank manager, a lawyer, an accountant, a tax agent, an office clerk, a big businessman than any other citizen. That's called isology and it's a constitutional check. So in the context of equitableness, and the independent functioning of justice, what criminal responsibilities exist, the prosecutor will look into them and do the right thing. However, here I am obliged to repeat one of my objections, perhaps the most important one. I note that the question was not answered 'and what if the conclusion goes to the prosecutor'. He did not answer why he was not actually put forward by anyone except us, of course, the Centro Association. So, according to what we all know, when a prosecutor carries out an investigation into his actions and his actions, always in the context of his duties, listen, read, finds the name of a political person somewhere, then he is obliged to close the file immediately and return him back to Parliament. So I ask you. If the prosecutor decides that someone should answer questions such as what is going on with the building of Koumoundouros, what about the haircut and not the repayment of the loan concerned, as you say, what about offshore of "AGEI", what do you say the prosecutor will not hear the names of political persons? Similarly, if the D.A. hears and goes to a bank tomorrow and asks, "How can you give a loan for 11 years to forget it? How can you accept to borrow a newspaper to close, become a hotel and make its building rooms and pay you interest?’ Will the Advocate-General not listen to the names of political persons? A hole in the water, therefore, for those who are lying, let it be understood that the prosecutor will find what we have not found the criminal responsibilities of political persons. We have already explained to the Greek people what we understood from our participation in this committee. There was a complication, but it doesn't prove. It doesn't close the triangle or the square of intercom. At the end of the day, after one's searches for everything, one ends up with a great deal of nothing and nowhere will find evidence of the famous political intervention. This side of the interlocutory is not described anywhere in any law. It is not a criminal offence and it is certainly not a criminal offence. Also, it is worth mentioning that no banker came out to tell us, "I got a call from the same politician and told me to do this," and no publisher came out to tell us, "I called the politician and told him to do this." Nor was it a politician to tell us, "I made the mediator between banks, channels, newspapers, websites". However, during the examination of the witnesses, many and memorable have been heard, such as in the case of loans with "air" guarantees and much more. This does not change, however, the fact that we have not found the smoked barrel of interlocutory. We didn't catch a man with honey in his hand. However, we have seen - and we consider it very important that the Greek citizens understand it - as simple as this. There was no, and there is no law against interlocutory in Greece today. Everything became legal and in a special way. If it is worth mentioning the famous Kaloudis finding in this Chamber for some things, among them must it be sure that the question asked by Prosecutor Kaloudis was: “Is the regulation invaded?” to get the answer from three top bankers "There is no framework to be violated". And I'll say it as simple as I can, as I understand it and I understand it myself. I wondered, what kind of loan does a political party get? Is it repairing? Is it business? Is that consumer? What kind of loan is it? The fact that we cannot answer clearly and directly without thoughts on this simple question demonstrates the importance of the statement that there is no framework to be violated. And that leads inconsistently to the conclusion that those who did what they did knew very well what they did and you don't catch them from nowhere. So that there was nowhere written about how and exactly how a banker should deal with a politician who is going to ask for a loan led both the politician and the banker to conclude that the loan to parties and politicians is loan and unsavoury lawful. That is how everyone has ever interpreted this empty law in the past. That's how they all faced this hole in the system, that's an opportunity to baptize the borrowers. And because there is no one who forbids it, we can trim these loans and regulate them as they are, without rules, taking into account only the surrounding atmosphere and the modern situation. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] Yes, Mr President, you will give me two minutes. What loans and what fellow citizens can we get tired of overnight? What loans can be adjusted with the last instalment be 90% of the debt? If something does not need to be investigated further, it is certainly clear that the politicians, the parties and the media have been given special treatment by the banks. There's no doubt about that. Things were done in a special way by experts, so everyone had to be given special treatment. That's all. So far we have arrived with this committee, to prove that there have been, not illegal, but special situations. But let us consider what added the finding of the committee of inquiry to what we already knew about the costs of the irresponsible Greek governments that brought us to this point. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll need one or two minutes, Mr. President. You see, someone else also spotted the gap in the system. Another found that as long as the Greek governments could and were appointed bank governors, things would continue that way. The result for us was the delinquency of the banking system. They noticed - you see - our partners, our friends, the institutions, that something is wrong and they forced us to hand over the administration of the Greek banks. Officially, of course, for other reasons, this has been done. I wonder, however, how much did their joint finding, which does not prove to be true, in Greece, that the political system intervened regularly in the banking system either to alter elements to serve both parties, or to secure funds for the movements of its voters, or for the operation of party offices and the maintenance of party armies? And not only that, but now they lead to the second assessment and demand that we legislate on the protection of the members of the bank's boards of directors from any responsibilities and court proceedings, which may arise from the very tough decisions they will be called upon to take so that they can effectively manage the huge issue of red loans. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing.]] I don't have time. I would like to say a lot of other things. In conclusion, I would like to stress that the elements contained in the conclusion have not been called into question. This information is available to all Greeks. So I urge all Greeks to take a look at the pages of the final finding. Let's not all look at them, and a thousand pages. Look at the party they voted for, look at their favorite channel, look at the newspaper they pay, look at the bank they borrowed from. This conclusion needs to be found in every library of the Greek family, to be analysed by students and journalists. Above all, however, this conclusion should be the opportunity for us here in Parliament to open up the most important debate on the legal framework for lending and financing political parties and SMEs. If we succeed in agreeing on what needs to be done from now on, we will have offered a great service to the future of our children and to democracy, which we all stand in here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u205	Thank you. The rapporteur from the river has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u206	Thank you, Mr President. So, after nine months, forty meetings, thirty witnesses and thousands of pages of documents, we are here to discuss the conclusion of the examination of the loans of parties and the media. For a new party, like Potami, who has not a single euro loan, it was quite enlightening how things are done. As much as some have tried to show in the committee, which I am sure has also had high television, I think some important conclusions have finally come to light. I will not say, therefore, 'coals the treasure', but that we are not left with the mouth open from the revelations. As Potami we have tried to insist on the substance and not on the impressions, although for us it would be a privileged field because we do not have the sins of the late and recent past, but we have the anguish of the future, how, in other words, these morbid phenomena will be prevented in the future. That is why, having referred to my conclusions from the committee of inquiry, I will then focus on the proposals, because we were the only party that actually presented and some proposals on how to avoid such phenomena in the future. So let's start with the parties' loans. During the period of bilateralism and fat cows, the two parties, PASOK and New Democracy received a generous state grant of tens of millions. However, they did not reach and resort to excessive bank lending. Not that this was difficult, of course, because the loans were taken from state banks whose administrations had appointed them. 85% and over loans were from the Agricultural Bank. The guarantees given were the future state subsidies for anticipating that their electoral rates would continue to be the same and after ten years, i.e., a ten - year contract with the people, even with God. Later he went to the same trick, and SYRIZA following the same practices, transferring future grants until 2018, loans not solely with financial criteria, as Mr Tsipras himself demands in his letter to the National Bank in 2010. That is why we say that SYRIZA is not entitled to revolt with the practices followed. As in many others, he is a good student in bad practices of the old political system. SYRIZA, however, was prevented by the crisis. The system was gathered and so it did not get overloaded like PASOK and New Democracy, which owe about 200 million each. The green and blue loans, then, have long been red. SYRIZA follows a definite phase of a decade. SYRIZA's smaller debt is not 200 million, it's 8 million. It has just begun to blush on the basis of the Bank of Greece's finding of November, where the first 2.4 million euros appeared. So the big question that is asked to the old parties is not so much how they got these old loans and what they did to them, but how they will pay them back. They did, in fact, drastic cuts since 2011 and then attempts at housekeeping. But that's not good enough. You can't say you'll get this country out of the crisis when you haven't taken care of your home. A country that owes 400 billion will be taken out of the crisis by parties that owe 400 million? It is logical, then, that the political system should be discredited when they promise to take the country out of bankruptcy parties who cannot repay their own loans. We see campaigns and recipes from these parties for red loans for highly indebted households, but for highly indebted parties we don't hear a word. That is why in our proposals we are asking not to pay back their loans immediately - that would be impossible - but at least in the next period for an action plan to be presented, an operational plan to repay these arrogant loans. In the committee there was also a concern about the famous article 78 of L.4146/2013, which defensed the bank executives who gave loans to parties with controversial conditions and criteria. First of all, we think that if the government thinks that this article is wrong, it may well have done so - it could have done so already - to take the legislative initiative to abolish it, to change it. But, gentlemen of SYRIZA, how could you do this when Mr Tsipras' signature is in the letter to the National Bank, which he asks not to apply exclusively financial criteria? If they heard him, that is, bank managers, should they now sit on the stool? So the point is not to be easily searched for exile victims, but to shield the system from now on. Let's go to the media. First of all, let us say that we must not "fuck all" everything. There were entrepreneurs who put a deep hand in the pocket to survive their means in the time of the crisis. There were others, however, who were only based on credits on preferential, favourable conditions. Depending on the political perspective of the parties, they focused on specific media, friendly or hostile. 'DOL', 'MEGA', 'crude theme', 'Carykas', 'AUGA', had their honour in our Committee of Inquiry. For the triangle of interlocutory we heard reports from the witnesses, from Mr. Alafouzos, Mr. Kontomenas, Mr. Kourtakis, Mr. Anastasiades, Mr. Kouris. There were indications, reports, but no evidence. There's something there, but it never turns out. Like the Bermuda triangle. Except in the triangle of interlocutory, the credibility of the political system and information is lost. However, the indications for the triangle of interlocutory were both diverse in terms of the old system and the new one. For example, the Attica Bank's finding appeared to be privileged relationships with the entrepreneurs of the new system, as well as the launching of the advertising costs received by the "AGEY" by banks, after SYRIZA took over the power, which was the main shareholder of "AGEAN". Therefore, the Commission considers that the measures in question constituted State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, as they constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. To paraphrase Sartre a little, hell or devil is the involvement of others, not in general the involvement. He wondered why the majority of members of the committee, Mr. SYRIZA, did not want Mr.Davarakis to come to the committee, as requested by Potami, after the statements he made that his site was financed by Mr. Papapis, in order to support SYRIZA and this funding was cut after the referendum, because he was himself in favour of 'yes'. Why did SYRIZA refuse to come to the committee? What was he afraid of wanting everything to come out, like they said? But let's go a little bit and see what's going on. We tried as a river to contribute to a common finding. We were the only ones who put forward a memorandum and concrete proposals in a constructive way in time. We believe that, in order to be objective and credible a finding, it should include mainly data and not politically repellent, as was subsequently revealed by the written - erased - and the front - behind this particular finding. In the memorandum we have presented, we have referred to discriminatory omissions and also to verbal excesses. For example, on page 38 of the findings, it refers to 'information must be overridden by the people'. These are not in Havana nor in Caracas anymore. We have also tabled fifteen specific proposals, based on the recommendations of the GRECO Commission, which are made by the General Secretariat against Corruption, but also by international experience. We believe that these proposals could be the biggest deposit of the committee of inquiry, so that these things will not be repeated in the future. The government's majority did not adopt them. In fact, while in the original version of the finding, there was the chapter 'Proposals' and in fact the President had commissioned me to make a suggestion, to draw up it, in the final version, this chapter disappeared so that no proposal could finally be put in place. I would like to make a parable here and say that in the conclusion of 'SIEMENS' there was a chapter with proposals, which included eight proposals. On our own, at the official conclusion, no one but the ones who testified the river. However, transparency and accountability as annoying as they may be, are essential to recover the credibility of our political system. The conclusion is that there are laws, the framework exists, but it does not apply. I shall briefly refer to the most important of the proposals that we have put forward in our memorandum. First of all, the activation and strengthening of the Committee on Budgetary Control. Secondly, there should be detailed income balances - the costs of the parties and the public disclosure of the parties' financial data on the Internet, so that access to the public can be easy and open. Even indirect costs in the parties, such as posted employees, should also be mentioned. Transparency is the number one antidote in arbitrary and maladministration. In fact, we have specifically proposed that, in order to force parties to publish these figures, as long as a party is late in publishing these data, it should be retained part of the State grant of 2% for each month of delay. The next proposal was the drafting of an action plan for the repayment of loans from PASOK and New Democracy, which I mentioned earlier, more about the credibility of these same parties. Next sentence, not party costs without documents. The auditors’ observations showed millions of euros in the parties’ balance sheets without documents. In fact, SYRIZA 826,000 without documents in 2011 and 755,000 in 2012. And the question is: Where is this state money going? So we say to put a wall in 10% of the party's costs, to be the maximum, which they can have without documents. Facilitate participatory funding, crowdfunding in parties by many small contributions, so that there are alternative sources of revenue. Thus, they will also be facilitated to repay their loans, i.e. they will receive more revenue from the parties. Also, the inconsistency of 40% to go to 20% to cover only staff costs. As far as the media is concerned, what we have done as a proposal is not only banks publish their advertising expenditure in the media, but also the ECHO to make this expenditure public. For example, the EMCDDA appears with full - page entries in a Sunday newspaper as if it had to convince some customers while it was a monopoly. So that this is not a secret, indirect way of financing, the advertising expenditure of the ECJ should also be published in the newspapers. We should also look at ways within the European framework so that there is a substantial incompatibility between a public service supplier or a public works contractor and a media owner. Let me close in a few words on the current situation. There are voices for a drachma. They're good. To open the conversation, but on one condition: All those who speak of a drachma from now on - politicians, journalists and the media - do so with the "possibly" the published ones, see how much money they have outside, since the return to the drachma will multiply their money, as it will multiply our debt, which is in euro. Mr Shoeble is doing his job, and we need to do our own thing, which is to ensure our country's European prospect. But what European perspective? What Europe? Europe is the only safe means in the troubled waters of our time and our region. Yeah, we might want to change. In order to change Europe's ship, however, we must be on this. Because you can't make it change course if you've dived into the hot water. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u207	I, too, thank Mr Mavrotas, especially for respecting time. It was completely within time, because I repeat that if time is not respected, Mr Nicholas, we will be going after the 1,000th hour.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u208	I will take as much time as the previous ones have taken, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u209	You have infinite television time. You don't need to.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u210	I am not using the APA to give me any more time, due to a number of years in Parliament. I'll take as much time as you've given the PASOK representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u211	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u212	Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of the day we have heard something extremely interesting: whoever wants to talk about the drachma, open up his accounts. I see here in the ministerial headquarters of a man who has been involved in or who has been involved in polling professionally. If they say so, Mr Voridis, polls, that more than 53% of the citizens are discussing this possibility, then you understand what needs to be done, to open up all these accounts. Also, I heard someone else here today saying that whoever talks about the drachma will probably want the debts to be erased. That's all! That's good! Ladies and gentlemen, in the committee of inquiry and today, many people have told me that they have carried out the following tests. They closed their eyes and listening to the MP with what he says, they said: he's with the "davadism", he gets a little bit, he's ready to shine their shoes. And by chance it was one of those spaces that we see today as saying: "Uff, we're out of order." That should definitely concern the majority. If they see them think they got away with it, something's wrong. I want to tell you that this is not the reality. Because the work of the exam closed, but they opened the case, if you don't know. They opened the case before taking this finding to the prosecutors. This is where Mr Balommenakis said to me every day - because he informed me about the committee - that yesterday's Minutes were sent to the Prosecutor of the Ice Bay - the minutes, without any comments. I'm not, after all, legal. I don't know legally, Mr. Voridis. Well, the other day, I had a lawyer there. Like Mr Kyatsakis, who says that we should also bring actions now for parliamentary control. I say it so that you can hear it, but also to hear it out of the House - and they are summoned by one. How? Reading what the prosecutors have heard in committee. Nothing more, baby. None of us need to do the prosecutor. My colleague from PASOK told me, who is from the Tower, "I am also to them?" I don't know if man recognizes himself. He says to me: "You were in New Democracy for so many years." I told him "I wasn't in New Democracy. I was the New Democracy." But the funds never told us in the parliamentary group. Isn't that right, Mr. Metarakis? They never said. So I'd know now, a year that Mr. Mitsotakis has been carrying out, since Mr. Mitsotakis mentioned it, how much he collected, baby, from the breeks or how much he collected from the coupons. Well, let's find out, this year, man raised so much money as a good housewife. Because judging by his loan with "devil", I would ask him, in fact, to do the same to me for all the loans I have and the Greeks. Did you find out what was nice to do with it? He was one of these students abroad, or of the experience he gained in Karaja, when Simitis appointed him. What did he do? "Balloon," he says. No, it's not a balloon. That's what it's called. So what is it? He goes to the bank - not everyone, not everyone, to Mitsotakis - and says: "I have to give you, because I am poor, two grand a month". At the end of the day, however, I will give you a dose of three hundred and fifty grand."
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u213	No, six hundred forty.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u214	Whatever it is. Six hundred forty. Does anyone believe that? Is there anyone who believes that after eighteen, twenty-two, twenty-three, twenty-four months will go and pay them off? If he thinks it's going well.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u215	It's called resetting.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u216	But that's the game. Like some canals were breathing, because you said you were aware, because you had put the dose on them, Ministers, after these dates. But the day before that I was invited by Mrs Perdimatis, I told her to invite these canals to see if, in fact, they actually complied with the arrangements that they made with the administrations that you hold there, the same administrations that, while we had a committee of inquiry, were giving the same loans with intangible values. So I am sure that, apart from Mr Psycharis, Mr Nearmenias who are now accused, the administration of ALPHA BANK, Mr Manjuunis, will not be able to go any further. Unless it's the vagina of the old method of Batopedia. Those who were flying molotovs, but they weren't in Mount Athos, they're being acquitted. For those who are in Mount Athos, the molotov says he's been in prison for twenty years. Here's the thing. This is called by the same courts. Ladies and gentlemen, from this step forward, I would like to make it clear, however, that if some people were to take their medals, credits, nostalgics - to speak pseudos, as I am a psalmist - on the channels because they were doing well in the committee of inquiry, some people from here are not only excluded - this also seems to be by the naked eye - but you may not know that they are being blackmailed, threats and lawsuits. That's why I said about a lawsuit we had with Mr. Voridis. I would like to say, Mr Ministers - and I have officially done so today, I have tabled a question to the House - that I read today in the newspaper of centre-right, the 'Dimoratia': 'Cyritsaki' with a complaint of blackmail'. And he says it's worth noting that Mr. Kyritsakis didn't say names nor who are blackmailing him. He did not say why, for years, the files in the Competition Committee have been left there, not for poor people: beer, contractors' cartel. These are nice jobs. And as much as this goes back, it's like a taxi. He says, instantly, he's, he's not moving, but he's writing the taxi. So some Members come here and become annoying saying: “What are you doing now? A new trick? Why do they do it?’ What did such annoying Member of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, like my master? So here's a report. Subject: Competition committee - I shall table it. "Please for the verification or not of your comment on the letter brought to us by lawyer Stefanidis Panagiotis, a plaza of the Republic by letter", requesting that we transfer the matter to Parliament. This is a reference, of what I feel I have a duty and a duty to testify against dozens. The ministers and the ex-wifes know that. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned reference, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] But today what does DIMMOCRATIA say? That despite the adoption of a relevant law by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, where an age limit is set for the presidents of the independent authorities, which has exceeded, he says, Mr Kyritsakis - says today the newspaper - has put it under pressure to ensure that his term of office is extended. I don't know if the vice president, our colleague's husband, still lives there. Is she staying in committee? You have also passed a law that says it is forbidden because it is his wife here in Parliament, but he is there in the Competition Committee. Member of the New Democracy is his wife. It's all right, it's a medal. But you have an obligation, Mr Ministers and the Bureau of Parliament, yesterday's Minutes to go to the prosecutor's office. To go, let's see who the MPs are and who is pressed and who is blackmailed. I give you, any colleague who wants to see it, the question I have tabled today, and I ask exactly that, so that Mr Kyritsakis can go, why he has to break eggs, call him a prosecutor, so that he can become an omelet. And that's where we'll testify and the rest. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, presents for the Minutes the above question, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Very comprehensive citizens, ladies and gentlemen, outside this Chamber, are stopping me and they are asking me to remind the government and the opposition that they must turn all the loans back and demand that we do not give forgiveness to the sea-shoulders and to the jubilees of pimpish rule. Many judges ask me to pass on to you, Mr Ministers, their anxiety not to insult them by canceling their judicial findings for which they have not only fought but also closed their ears on the sirens of money. And let's start positively. The citizens, as Mr Voutsis said, have followed the work of the committee with unrelenting interest, and that is why you have heard from other colleagues that he has had a high television. But no channel showed. Do you have any channels? No channel! I'm talking about people listening to us. No channel showed! If they're, they say, clean people. Why didn't you show it if you were clean? Because they're all dived and those who seem to be aware. And a gentleman who had come and thought he was in a cafeteria and sat around saying, "I'm a patriot" - remember, Maki? - and he was sworn to say, "I don't owe anyone. I have no loans," he observes us with his convincing and organization over there, because the Fourth DU found it there and lasts for four five years - he hears four five years - that the increases in the share capital on his channel concealed a tax evasion that was taxed to him by 75 million. And he has another 60 million from the CIFF and he says, "I'm a patriot. What are you asking me?' So is the other canalarch and the other one. So why have I heard here today - I may be a little spoiled by the soup - that 'and what happened to the committee of inquiry'? Not what happened. Ask them what happened, where the loans were booked. Ask them what happened that bound them up with their movable and immovable property because of the Committee of Inquiry. And how about you tell them? Why are there many bad children who go and say, "And why do they sit accused and others do not sit for the same reasons? Take a seat, too. How have you not yet booked the loans to certain groups and only booked them at the MEGA? Do you understand? Like this. So they are concerned and know that this is not the case, only if those good children of the Committee of Inquiry come in on things that will settle them the way they have been arranged for all these years. They're their only hope and they're doing everything they can, unscrupulously. It's okay. And those and those who don't come out in clearing, because he tells you, the world is desperate and in his despair that he didn't see what he wanted from this government will do. But here again, the polls come yesterday and they say about the populace leader of the officer's counterpopulation. These polls, you know how it's done, don't you, Minister? Of those good things Macedonia and Thrace want to do, possibly, sitting in your chair. So they say that 22% want the Chief of Antipopulation. So many? 22%! So he will become Prime Minister with 22% of the people loving him and the rest will not love him. What am I supposed to say? - I've never seen them. I've been here many years since 1989. With 22% wanting to be Prime Minister, it can't be. To conclude, Mr President - I know that you will not let me go to the end - I do not think that we should stick to the flag, that we are not done today. I've said it many times and I'll repeat it. And we'll be judged, because we've had a long time, even you and all of us. I would also like to hope that those who are glad to hear that they have come to an end. I would like to believe that you majority MPs and then those who sit there will not allow it. Because the work done is, indeed, very important. It does not appear from its tumor, only so that people see it but from its contents. And let's say whatever they want here from the Step of the House. Besides, they know very well that for these omissions or for those crimes that have been committed here dozens, hundreds of bankers have lost their jobs, because they have given a loan that has not been returned and have not received all the predictions, not because for them here it should normally be possible that they might have set up a criminal organization, have all those facts. What does that look like? I heard some people -- and I'm gonna close up with this -- say about the Kaloude conclusion. Really you great people now that you're all from all sides, have you ever heard of this before? Two children were sent by the Bank of Greece to Mr. Kaloudi, the Prosecutor. Let him ask, if it is the way our friend from the river said it, whether or not there are rules.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u217	Mr. Dratsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u218	Yes, Mr. Dratsi. I worked at the bank for ten years, and I was the head of sponsorship. Of course there are rules. Of course, there are the actions of the Governor of the Bank of Greece. We have been through this a number of times, and we have tabled it to the committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u219	The Easter and Papayannides confirmed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u220	They said so themselves at the Bank of Greece. Two kids went - lawyer, aren't you, Mr. Firela? Yes - and they testified, at the same time, the same second before the Prosecutor of Acts exactly the same. If one of us who is a Christian, tell him "I believe", he's afraid he can say a mistake. She's afraid to say it wrong. And so when he gets godfather, he gets the book ahead, if he's doing it wrong. Those two didn't make a mistake.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u221	A prose.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u222	These two said exactly the same and the prosecutor said: Bravo children. I took it at the same time, Minister of Justice, on the same day. At the same time, at the same time, two different faces to get the Kaloude to the file. Good for you, if you do not say so, to look at the case, if it is true what Nikolopoulos says, if these two did go and make us all laugh and above all justice. And let's see what the D.A.'s gonna tell you. That he was wrong at the time? That he was wrong the day? That is the way it has been done, ladies and gentlemen, and I am sure that those of you who have forgotten it can reappear the meetings of the committee of inquiry. And there you will understand very well that it was not a story in Bajraktar, my dear Andrew Loverdos, that pimps in this place always wanted to find the convenient, willing ones. Unfortunately, there's still the dragon here, but not the fairy tale. He's the one who pushes every day saying, "Give it all away, don't you see it? Sign the cover!’ This is from morning until night the support of the government, which is trying, says, to do everything it can in this difficult situation. Criticism says 'why you didn't sign it all'!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u223	Finish, Mr. Nicolopole.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u224	I shall conclude, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very sorry that I did not give my vote to this very important work that has actually been done and that thanks to the efforts of all, others less and more, we can now be proud that we have not covered them. But I think the next step should have been taken. We don't want to throw the ball into justice, but we need to drive things there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u225	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty-eight students and students and three educational attendants from the 14th Kalamata Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The Deputy Minister for Environment and Energy, Mr Famelos, has the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u226	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me to begin by starting and then, together with the members of the committee, thank you from the Step of the House, colleagues and colleagues who were together in the discussion on a great deal of work, the executives, scientific associates and all the staff of the House who have helped us in these months at very dense meetings but also in a work that is very important both in terms of load and in terms of its political importance. Ladies and gentlemen, the Committee of Inquiry into the borrowing of parties and the media has publicly recorded everything that was whispering in the cafes, in the parapolitical debates, in the corridors of Parliament and in the ministries for so many years, all that the political system can no longer deny them, renounce them, disguise them. And it's obvious in advance why he wanted to cover them up. Because he did not have the boldness or political will to look for them all these years. SYRIZA, the Echologians and the Independent Greeks had to come to the government to discuss these issues. And only their choice of the tomb is to be silenced by what everyone else knew and they all shared behind the curtains, this and only their political choice is the political condemnation of the former system of dualisation, which brought the country into this multifaceted crisis. The Committee of Inquiry has brought much more to the surface than was data at the outset and this is because the Government's choice was that it should be public. It wasn't a symptomatic, random event. It was our choice. Because the citizen had to be informed of all that he had been hiding for so many years, but which everyone suspected. So we avoided many filters and parrots, which we are sure would change everything we talked about in the committee of inquiry with the usual leaks in the perimeter. The Committee of Inquiry submitted all those who needed no protection filters. We have accepted all the proposals from the Opposition, because we have no problem with transparency. They all came, as high as they were, and spoke to the representatives of the Greek people, to the representatives of the Greek citizens. And that was a big political cut you haven't made for so many years. The triangular link between the media, the politicians and the banking system has been confirmed, because very simply the governments appointed bankers, bankers provided air loans, to support the political system through the media and to create a closed group where decisions are taken in the absence of Parliament and in the absence of the citizens. And there were gray areas much more. A representative of the media admitted that they also participated in this triangle and made it square. Is that true, ladies and gentlemen, or not? Mr. Metarakis, is this true? You have been up on the Step of the House before and you said that all the citizens heard from Parliament's channel are lies. You said you were followers of the truth, but you shouldn't have come up with a finding, because the committee didn't find anything. Did you arrive at the point where you would say that you should not go to the prosecutor all the things that Greece has heard in 2016? Are you still backing the illegal media lending? Do you dare say that there have been no unequal terms and that there have been no, for at least 15 years, loans to both parties and the media? The new Republic, the 'truth group', also forgives the canalarchs today. Inside the Greek Parliament she did this with her rapporteur, in one of the biggest scandals of post-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-mortem-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-municipalism that suffled Greece's political history, because she mortgaged political honestity, the way you look the citizen in the eyes. They didn't. They don't dare even today. They want to make a myth of the sea loans, that they didn't exist. In the Committee of Inquiry we examined EUR 1.7 billion. They look a little bit like it now. You wanted it to be more to be investigated. And 1 euro has been set unequally when the businessman, the citizen, the borrower to get home does not have equal access to the loan, he had to employ Parliament, not EUR 1.7 billion! And they look a little bit like you today. In my view, we should not just talk in Parliament about this political event revealed by the examination. In my view, the meetings of the committee of inquiry are one of the most important political documentaries of post-multi-policy for our country. The owners admitted publicly that they were lending unequal loans, loans with "air", loans without guarantees, loans with "smurfs" guarantees, as the colleague who left the Vima said earlier, Mr. Nicholopoulou. At the same time they did not replace the guarantees when they sold the shares. On the contrary, the banks also gave them cash. In such a sale, EUR 4.5 million was released, without any guarantee for the bank, no guarantee for the depositor and the State. Can I just tell you what some of the big canals said? So Mr Alfouzos said that the state and the banks were lending beyond what was appropriate and beyond logic. When we asked him if it means connecting to politics, he said: "The surrounding atmosphere over the years indicated that, in some media for many reasons, there was also a political relationship with some of the shareholders of these instruments. What I can say and repeat, however, is that the loan made to the media was unsurpassed, beyond all reasonableness and not normal." Today the New Democracy and the PASOK, the Democratic Reconciliation, feel that they did not hear that. But Mr Alfouzos said so. What did Mr. Bobballs say? He said: ‘We had EUR 69 million loans. They had no assurances and we had contact with the banks, we did the practical thing and any assurances were given." And when Mr Balis asks: 'For the first time, you were asked for assurances', he says: 'Until then, banks had not been guaranteed'. Mr. Bobbollas saw it. What did Mr. Vardinoyannis say? Mr Vardinoyannis said that there is a framework in Greece, not only on television but on many activities where there is intense and unfair competition. "In this area things are a little more gray, because those who are involved in this competition are people who have a large economic surface and competition is even more difficult." But what did he say - I think all of Greece will know - Mr. Psycharis? He said of the EUR 15 million that he gave as a guarantee: “Yes, I have signed guarantees. It does not mean that I had the cash." It asks: 'What then did you give guarantees?' "In air," she answers. He asks: 'Have you said air'? "In air," she answers. And you didn't hear that, ladies and gentlemen? You weren't in there? Weren't you in the hallways we were talking about, that this was one of the greatest revelations the Committee of Inquiry did? And with regard to the system of virtual companies, that is to say, that the shareholders themselves created a company, to regain a loan from a company without activity and without guarantees made to the Doll and the "PROTO THEMA", what did Mr Anastasiades say? "I told you it was a very common method of financing and there are bank and financial advisors who suggested it to me." And when I asked him: “Do you know someone who proposed it to you?” he replied: “Yes. Don't push me. There's no need. It's self-proof. In other words, the banks which made this loan and the financial advisors.’ You know where the information came from to get the loan. And when Mr Mavrotas asks him, "Do you think there is a triangle of interaction?" Mr Anastasiades says, "What can we say now? What can I tell you? May I tell you that there is no?" We don't. They're not SYRIZA MPs. In addition to the media, it was clear, however, that the New Democracy and PASOK loans financed the election campaigns for the entire period 2000-2010 with loan and unscrupulously. Every four years, the bank increased its loan amount during the beam. At first it was equal to state funding. Then it was double, three times, and four times. Whenever they were attracted to the plaque, it opened. And what was he getting paid for? Aeroplanes, vapours, banners and election flags. The elections of the last 15 years were held with lending and fierce and neo-Republic and PASOK, with the credits that came from the pockets and deposits of the Greeks. The exploitation of Greek society has not only been done with neoliberal policies, it has been done with complexity and corruption and with the money of the Greeks the political system has been maintained. The Committee of Inquiry has raised all this and no one can cover it, the relationship between the governments and the media, the dismantling that led to unequal lending and eventually dismantled the Greek economy, because the businessmen, however large they were, did not have the same access to the loans. The canalarchs, I say, New Democracy and PASOK, had. Of course we paid this because we had to cover the recapitalisation to the extent that it corresponds. It's not all loans, but it's a section that the Greek citizens paid for these loans. Of course, all this now wants to hide it. For me at least the original position of the New Democracy has shown. Hide what? Whereas on 31 March the government's proposal for the examination, on 1 April the Piraeus Bank reported the loans of New Democracy and PASOK a day later. Isn't that symbolic? Also, while we took the decision on 19 April to be a committee of inquiry, on 22 April Piraeus Bank denounced the existence of loans with the Treasury of loans. We hadn't disclosed it yet, we found it then. [[Noise - laughers from the wing of SYRIZA]] The "Creek of Chania", I meant, ladies and gentlemen, but the preacher of loans is indeed. At the same time, all the deeds I am tabling have been made until November, because I do not have time. It's a shocking sequence of results, about when we got the issues out of examination, and when the banks moved. It's a dense two-page list. I'm presenting him for the Minutes and you can take him, ladies and gentlemen. [[At this point the Deputy Minister, Mr Socrates Famelos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Many of the findings of the Bank of Greece were drawn up after our debate. And you want to tell us that for all this, banks and borrowers weren't responsible? Why? What do you want to hide? Do you want to hide the responsibility of Piraeus Bank, which, for eleven years, had not asked your Chief, Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, for the EUR 300,000 initially made after 711,000? [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell of the Deputy Minister hits the warning bell.]] Would you like to cover for that, too? That is why you ask that there be no responsibilities. It's not possible we've all received a phone call from a collecting company. Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis got him a collector for his loan to "Greek Chania"? Because this is where we learn that it was not only the 300,000 who were made 711 000, it is also another 2.150,000 from the Panghretia Bank, which was the conclusion of the Bank of Greece - which was because the examination was set up and revealed this loan - it says that it went to other purposes than the lending for which it was made. The D.A. hasn't heard of that yet? Didn't the collecting company yet get Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, who is the major shareholder of "Kyrika Chania"? All this was the result of the deposits of the Bank of Greece's own officials. Mr President, I shall conclude. There are other questions raised here. What kind of banking umbrella do we have in Greece? Is it possible to come to the Bank of Greece's director and tell the House that "this party no one wanted to spoil it", the credit expansion party? Is it possible that the director of the inspectors who make the findings will also come and say ‘if I did the 2009 conclusion on the ‘CORD’, would I write other things’? And why didn't the Bank of Greece write these other things in 2009? Why did SYRIZA have to come, so that the Bank of Greece could consider these? What security do we have in bank lending and deposits? But since we want to have security and transparency, we now have transparency in lending because of SYRIZA, we have transparency in bank ads because of SYRIZA, and we have a committee of inquiry because of SYRIZA, so that it is quiet and calm and bank staff, so that it does not ring the phone and they can never tell who called them, as they have not said so far. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] But you are trying to create a picture of us - and I conclude, Mr President - that we are all the same. I'll say two things to close. We are not all the same, and you are very sad about that. SYRIZA's loans are paid. You lied about having multiple guarantees. We don't have one. They're paid, they're up and down. We're very well and consistent. The loans of the New Democracy, which are about 200 million and the loans of PASOK that have been paid for five years, have not just been paid but cannot be answered when you will pay them. And we waited, at least, for you to have the political courage to come here, for you to tell the Greek citizens when you will pay the 400 million loan and anguish, because we are consistent and we are paying them back. We are waiting for an answer now on staff, for the New Democracy to take the floor and say how it will pay 210 million that it owes Greek citizens. And have the daring, now one to stand up and say it! [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] The last thing is that, Mr President. Excuse me. And there's something else that separates us. We participate in a historic newspaper on the Left, "AGEI", whose main shareholder, SYRIZA, was due, made a guarantee, and he said "I guarantee the bank". You have a newspaper, "Greek of Chania", which his main shareholder, according to Mr. Dendia, does not know what is going on at "Greek of Chania", Mr. Mitarakis. So I ask Mr. Mitsotakis this. Does he know what's going on in the "Creator of Chania"? And why didn't he make a personal bail? And why is he a systemic malpractice, or is he a cheater? And that's your view of the excellence of the Greeks? Is the country's best CV proving to be a battling? We're asking here. Answer the Greek citizens. All this has been said clearly in front of the Greek Members, in front of the committee of inquiry, the representatives of the banks. And it's true. And that's the team of truth. The Group of Truth is the report of the Committee of Inquiry. So I want you to tell us this. Is it possible that the committee of inquiry of these new and inexperienced MPs, which the country has put to Parliament in order to save the country - not to save, why can they not help - to save with the Greeks what corresponds to us, to have a better homeland, a fair development? But that was the case in the committee of inquiry. That's what's been revealed. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS VARENTIS takes over]] Mr President, I really want an answer. How will New Democracy and PASOK pay their loans so that they can be okay with the Greek citizens, so that we can get back to honesty, honesty, to justice? That's what our country needs. That's what the committee of inquiry did. Just serve honesty and justice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u227	Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u228	You're welcome, Mr. Metarakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u229	Mr President, I asked for the floor for a minute on personal grounds, because Mr Famelos said by name that I was lying in the speech...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u230	Your name was only heard. Nothing from there.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u231	No, he needs an answer. On the point Mr Famelos said, I lied in plenary about the double and threefold allocation of state funding made by SYRIZA, I would refer you to page 543 of the conclusion, which mentions the three contracts on which state funding has been pledged...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u232	Same bank! You're interrupting me and it's not appropriate!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u233	Don't be a liar!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u234	Quiet, Mr. Wireless!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u235	Such anxiety in this House as I have been a MP for years, I've never seen it before!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u236	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u237	Tell the truth in here at last!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u238	You're gonna get hurt. Read them first and then.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u239	Mr President, first of all we must call on the pathologist of this House to be here, not to have any displeasure, because I see great stress. Be the pathologist of the House present. I'm answering Mr. Famello. If you want to answer me, you'll take the floor. This is a parliament. It's not a university amphitheater. It's a parliament. Mr President, on staff...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u240	Mr President, I ask why I should like to reply.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u241	Mr. Femmelle, you'll take the floor. So I answer. In three different pledges signed by SYRIZA, SYRIZA has embedded the 2010 State Grant and two different 2011. That is where double and triple come from. When your parliamentary representative takes the floor, I imagine he will answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u242	Mr. President, I...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u243	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u244	On the subject of "Greek of Chania" the exhibition of the Bank of Greece affirms that due to the existence of collateral guarantees and personal guarantees of high prestige, the bank has never been at risk for one day to pay off and the loan is now informed. I'm surprised Mr. Famelos mentions it. It gave me a positive impression that the SYRIZA rapporteur, Mr Balomemakis, in his speech, did not fall in the wrong to refer to it. Clearly, this is all done to make a personal attack on Mr. Mitsotakis, because they have nothing more to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u245	Mr President, I would like the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u246	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u247	Mr President, the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative can speak and answer SYRIZA's loans. I would like to tell you that from my part of my term of office in the Committee of Inquiry I had the assessment that at least on that level we were telling the truth. Or, if you like, re-issuing a loan from the same bank with the same guarantee is absolutely legitimate, and if they have anything, let's go to the prosecutor. Clear sky lightnings are not afraid, Mr. Metarakis!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u248	He's already been to the D.A.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u249	Ladies and gentlemen, please! The question remains and remains by Greek citizens towards New Democracy and PASOK. Tell us two things. How will you pay the 210 million loans and unscrupulously, which you have to pay even 1 euro since 2011? Is that what you have the political courage to answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u250	I've answered.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u251	Please take the floor and tell us how you will pay 211 million, because Parliament requires a decision and a position of the political system. And a second for "Greek of Chania". With regard to the high prestige guarantee the owner has given to ‘Greek of Chania’, why did he not give 1 euro painter for eleven years? The question remains. Eleven years who bothered "Greek of Chania" and Mr Mitsotakis for the loan, which was multiplying because it was unpaid? Tell us. Did he get a phone call? So what was the coverage and the relationship between the banking system and the political leadership? Please tell us, please, because this is what the committee of inquiry revealed and if it were not the committee of inquiry, no one would know about it in Greece. You would have buried them, as you have buried all the skeletons in the closet of your own bilateral agreement with the partners.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u252	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u253	What do you want, Mr. Lappa?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u254	Tell us about the procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u255	Mr President, I have the text in front of me...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u256	Mr President, I shall speak no matter what happens at the end.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u257	Mr. Lappa, you will take the floor as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u258	No, Mr. President. It's a one-second clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u259	No, Mr. President. The way we go, the speakers will not talk and we will come by 3:00. To speak as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u260	Did your guy say that as a representative?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u261	I got the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u262	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u263	Mr President, there is no problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u264	To charge his speech, Mr President. To speak and answer. That's not how it works.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u265	All right, Mr President, take my time off. If the exit of the skeletons from the wardrobe scares some, it's not our fault. The writings stay. In particular, the New Democracy in its conclusion states that it is simply additional acts of the same contract with the same bank, which you hide and deliberately do, Mr Mitarakis. You know it's one of the bank and one of the loan contracts.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u266	Mr. Lappa, you'll get the floor later.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u267	It's a new loan with the same guarantee. You're getting new money without a new bail, with the same bail.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u268	I'll tell you when it's time for me to talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u269	Mr. Loverdos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u270	Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, a question - I will say about what the previous speaker said - I wanted to do in my turn. What has left you with which you have risen up on the chariot of the crisis, so that you may go up to power? What's left of you? What is left of you from the first phase, from the basic salary, from the thirteenth pension? What's left of them? What's left of the parallel program? What were you left of NATO's blurred organization, which you said yesterday - the Minister of Foreign Affairs recommended Montenegro's accession to ratify it by the Greek Parliament? What do you have left of them? You have nothing left, and you have nothing left to handle, that is to say, everyday life - the story of slander, mud, poisoned speech, divisional speech, hatred, slander, political immunity, that is to say, lack of the slightest barrier, legal or political barrier. Nothing. You've been speaking with the last year's language. You talk as if you were before the elections and as I said at the closure of the committee of inquiry, what you say - and your rapporteur then - is like beaming you in time and going back, going in 2015, in 2014. 'Doctor Spock', I said the majority rapporteur, for those who remember the old television series. Depression of opponents. However, you have made a political career, but you will not do it again, because, in addition to everything that has happened at political level, you have also been involved in a number of things in the committee of inquiry. The'rear', the 'invisible hand', as the majority Member has said, and not us, are the three cases that I have to present. I would remind you, therefore, of the members of the committee of inquiry and of the following: the first case concerns the felonious infidelity of Mr Stournara. At 14: 00 the hour had been leaked, at 14: 30 the time the actual finding was released, the finding report, had disappeared. That's the first. Good for you! Nice guys! Secondly, we have the history of the newspaper "PRO theme". In the "version" of Friday's Committee of Inquiry, the "First Theme" normally pays its loans, while two days later and with the assurance of the majority Members that nothing has changed, this has gone and has been "Priminal responsibilities of that issuer for other acts not related to the examination". Thirdly - and this is about us, and that is now a complaint of cold smuggling by all the majority Members - Mr Salagiannis was called on the Committee of Inquiry and tabled what he had tabled. In your conclusion, ladies of the majority, you change what has been said. He sends the President of Parliament on Monday, Mr Salayannis, a complaint about four changes Mr Koutsoukos mentioned and I do not have time to repeat them. But I'm going to touch some of them. Since 2011, he doesn't pay - he says - the PASOK. The man has said that both 2013 and 2014 and 2015 he pays from his blood. He pays, having cut 95% of his expenses.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u271	It's the assigned man, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u272	And you were answered by Mr. Koutsoukos, Mr. Famele, but you're on the occasion of this House, even though you should have been on this day. He answered the plans for the people's sovereignty to mediate and will take you where it seems to be taking you, to see, after the elections, how you will pay back your loans. I don't speak randomly. I speak on very specific political and legal terms and if you listen carefully, you will understand. I present this letter from Mr Salayannis. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Andreas Loverdos, presents for the minutes the abovementioned letter, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] One of you also had the nerve at the last minute of the Committee of Inquiry to say - because we say that we are the only party that asked six major international accounting companies to audit its finances and we have tabled the findings to justice - 'Yes but with questions that you have raised', ignoring what Mr Salayannis said, that by letter to these six said 'And for any other question you want'. When you do this for your own finances, which Mr Koutsouko has said a lot about, then come and raise the finger, because until then you have to swallow what you have been saying over the past few years and apologize. [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] Let us now refer to you to the organizers of the Bullying battalions. One person is personally responsible for what you have done to you. What do you want to tell us? What is it that Mr. Famelos says is proven? It proved to be your basic slander for the forty years of post-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-municipalities, the period of the Greek people where he first lived in such conditions of democracy and for the first time in such conditions of economic soundness by the formation of the Greek state. He has lived with many problems - I will say about them - and with corruption in any case - I will say about it - but this way you can eliminate these forty years from the country's assets and record them as a period during which the triangle 'information media - parties - banks' prevailed to allegedly produce these political movements that ruled the country, collapsed...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u273	Do you deny that? I have questions. Wasn't there a forty years complication?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u274	...with your first witnesses themselves. What did you say? You have seen that there is no political person, that there is no penal responsibility of a minister for all that you are accusing of. And today, your rapporteur has had the courage to say, by addressing Mr Scandalidis in particular, that we should tell you about the 15 million, which is an accounting balance, as Mr Salayannis himself has said! That's what you fished in the blush waters and something bit. Finally, Mr Colleague, the alchemy! Symptoms of interlocutiveness have been many. As far as the lending of the parties is concerned, we have taken the initiative and, as far as criminal responsibility is concerned, we have taken initiatives and, as far as possible, we have hit the fight against corruption. When we ruled in the midst of a crisis, all the institutions that you call today are our institutions. I would like to mention, for example, the financial prosecutors and the prosecutors of corruption. We have all voted for them and implemented them. Now I'm coming to the exam. We tried to be impartial. We cannot be objective when we are executives and members of political parties, we have a vision of things. But unbiased, especially when we look at persons and things with such serious responsibilities, we must be. But you do not have the good witness outside. What have you been avoiding? Falsely, the previous one reported that you all agreed to come and all and testify to what they wanted. Did you accept Mr. Davarakis? He is the only one who said something very specific, 'I took money from the Minister's office'. No one else has said that. It is not a people's court, ladies and gentlemen, to say what we assume, here we say what has been heard in the committee of inquiry. So we called Mr. Davarakis. No, he said SYRIZA, not to come, like another six or seven faces, because we were supposedly unable to do so, while we had extended the function of examination six or seven times. In this extreme case you have lost any presumption of impartiality and credibility. Instead, we suggested everyone should come. Everyone to blame others? Not first of all, Mr. Spiropoulos. Even in the last days PASOK's alpha or beta were told to come, we said 'yes', we voted 'yes'. You, for your part, voted 'no'. Secondly, a joint finding should be drawn up. It was my proposal for two months. We had three of the four points that we would certainly agree on. Proposals for the future, finding a legal framework and quantifying the loans to show truths used by majority Members of Parliament or lies which they are. You said no. The vote has been taken. You rejected it by voting. Good for you! Congratulations! And now we are all - but above all you - because the world learns - the ridicule that eight parties and an independent MP are tabling nine findings. We are all subjected to this, but it is a burden to you, because you have refused to do so by voting. We also told you not to get involved in the conclusions drawn from the Bank of Greece, because it would appear that some of us are premiums and that some of us are not premiums. On the contrary, sometimes you have done these tools and sometimes you swallowed them. And in your conclusion, what you think is of interest to you is telling you what you think is not of interest to the silencer. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, I personally asked all those who came there the same questions. And the representatives of the SYRIZA party and Dawn. I asked exactly the same questions, because it matters to an examination of people - things what is said there and not what we assume. To everyone in the same style and in the same way without smart and intent to do good to those who listen to me tonight and Monday I get good, but on Wednesday I've lost everything. Why did you go to the Committee of Inquiry with almonds and go out with the Bank of Attica, with what the Director of Dawn said, with what one or other witness said about your party's loans. Otherwise, you came in and came out. But he who wants to show that, really, he's trying to be impartial, he's asking all the same things and he doesn't change them depending on who he has toward him. Now let's get to the conclusions. Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the media, the quantification of loans - which we have insisted on, because from this step by the Prime Minister has said that loans from the media and parties have led the country to collapse and bankruptcy - has proved - precisely because we are all aware of - that these loans, which are not served by them, not the loans themselves, are a minimal, a minimal amount, in relation to the red loans of companies, in relation to the citizens' red loans. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I agree that they are of special importance and that even 1 euro is a critical size. I agree. It is another thing, and it is another thing to say that the country has been bankrupt since the loan of the parties. Critical time, colleagues. Here needs little attention and little knowledge, brother, they don't hurt! Another thing is to say these in 2015-2016, to be Christ's prophet and then to say them and to do them in 2010. It's just that you're thinking about state funding to parties before the crisis and then you're thinking about it. Another is to blame for lending in 2010, 2011 and another to say this in 2016, for being with the certainty of the facts and you can speak. You in 2010 asked for political loan. Don't forget that. Critical time is a legal concept of serious and political meaning to lift a finger and speak of others. Colleagues, what happened? For SME loans, those who do not serve to one or the other extent support the present majority or supported it. This has come about with fanaticism, because we now know who and what does not pay. Those who couldn't afford to pay, they fled to you and hugged you from morning to night. Another thing that is serious and important for the future. No double standards, no double standards, no double criteria, no other criteria for a red loan of an undertaking such as ‘MARINOPOULOS’ and no more for a red company loan such as a mass media.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u275	Is that the same? Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u276	And no more five years ago now. Because colleagues are calling for support from the other parties to save mass media business in this regard. This rescue has a variety of forms, one of which is not to be afraid of the staff member who will make a red loan arrangement, that he will be referred to infidelity by your methods. Because you have achieved no lending today, Mr President-in-Office, so that you cannot know at this time how the market works, because you have died the market and you need an amendment now so that things can be done self-evidently.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u277	You must finish, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u278	You'll give me two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u279	I've already given you three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u280	I have a special role, like other colleagues who are in a very difficult position, because today is a day when, after ten months of examination, we are talking about conclusions. I need you to give me two more minutes. I wanted to add something about what you were saying demagogics in the committee of inquiry. Indeed, the previous one mentioned his question to a witness, who gave an answer that gives rights to say today. He said: "To tell me and me how you borrow, to borrow, too." What one cannot ignore with caution the subject is that it is not possible to speak of a loan, ignoring that the safeguarders are the latest. As far as guarantees are concerned, the restructuring programmes are the most important. And to borrow, it's good to have a reputation and a clientele. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] There was no word on witness statements here that all the provisions of the banking regulations were complied with.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u281	Were they kept? The Bank of Greece does not have the same opinion.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u282	Also no word was said here by three majority speakers, that instead of what Mr Pappas said, they were operating without paying the euro, they were submitted with figures of the billions they have paid for all these years. And I don't say that because I care what they did. I care, because the reproach 'they didn't pay' is political reproach and wants to turn against us. A billion has therefore been paid to the public funds for all these years. And I'm closing up on the parties. Ladies and gentlemen, does one of you have the courage of knowing - and the experience of studying - to say that the loans given to the parties have distinguished between the majority parties or minority groups, between yours 3% that you were and will be again, and the rest?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u283	Of course!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u284	You asked for loans under political criteria and the only one who submitted this to the Committee of Inquiry was the Director of Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u285	Mr. Loverdo, finish it, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u286	And I come to the second conclusion on the parties. Nearly everyone's main source of funding is the state. That's something to do with it. Third. Bring me one of all the testimonies, about what I would do, if I was seven years ago out of critical time, as one or two witnesses said, but what would anyone do then with the knowledge of that time and what they will do now with the knowledge of the new era. So, on the basis of this fundamental finding of the critical time, everyone said that bank regulations were respected.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u287	Ignorant!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u288	Mr. Loverdo, you have to finish. Please. Please. Within the new age, close!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u289	As I see, you are in the mood to continue a game of raised fingers, a game aimed at the entire banking system today that you rule, which has files in front of it to regulate red loans. Everything you have said and everything you have done is directed against the functioning of ordinary daily people whether they are natural persons or businesses. And will you come here with this language, which today you have the courage to use, to ask for support? What can you ask for support?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u290	Mr. Loverdo, please! Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u291	In political votes? In what? Your poisonous speech after the expression of popular sovereignty, one has so far poisoned. You're the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u292	Mr Venizelos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u293	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the conclusion of the committee of inquiry is taking place in an extremely difficult and dangerous situation, unfortunately, for our country. We are again faced with fundamental and existential questions, which, unfortunately, is the very presence of the current government. You see, the continuous demagogic game turns very easily into a game with fire. Everything that the government believed to be a strong negotiating weapon has become a boomerang not against the government but against the economy, against the citizens, against the nation and national power. It opened up as no more, on the initiative of the parliamentary majority, yesterday, a debate on Grexit and a return to the drachma. The only fact that this issue is raised in public is that it causes serious harm to the national economy, but also to the parameters of the exercise of foreign and security policy and defence policy. The bad news is that this plan B, the plot of conspiracy, the plan of diversion, the plan of returning to the so-called salvage national currency, has been self-evident. It no longer depends on the handling and decisions of the Government, even if these are marginal, cynical, practicable and nationally dangerous. This plan has now poisoned the mind of a significant proportion of Greek society. And that now makes us all binding on our inability to deal with these issues with the responsibility, the sobriety and the rationality that we need when we have a single obligation before us. To overcome the crisis, to get out of the roaming, to achieve the national synergy, to move to normality, as we have said many times, a Member State of the European Union and of the euro area. When such issues are raised, what deposit will they return to the banks? What liquidity possibilities do the Greek banking system have in the real economy? Who's gonna invest? Who's going to eat? We do not understand that uncertainty and pessimism work as economic factors and produce an extremely negative result, removing the possibility of returning to markets even after many months. The same has happened with the dangerous game concerning the participation of the International Monetary Fund in the programme. It has not yet been guaranteed in the third programme in the third memorandum. The Government wants the IMF as a lever to take measures on debt that are not taken, except for funny short-term measures in 2060, without a reduction in the present value of debt, it does not want the IMF, because the IMF requires tough, additional austerity measures, which do not help the national economy. The result, however, is that this operation will ultimately be turned into a pressure mechanism in our country and to the citizens of a group of Eurogroup, without any official country being differentiated within the Eurogroup. And all this, as you can imagine, will lead us sometime not to normal, innocent, institutional developments. Yes, the country has its political problem as a major economic programme. Yes, the country wants another government, wants another parliament, wants other connections. Without elections there can be no solution. I don't vain. I know the elections are the government's choice. But it will not be a simple choice. It will be a simple option combined with an institutional crisis, with tension. Somehow, unfortunately, will be repeated, or there will be an attempt to repeat the 2015 farce. But this time you cannot flirt with ideas of referendum, with a referendum unconstitutional and forbidden on its point of view, which will now lead to a deep and insuperable economic crisis, a national disaster or elections involving supposedly dilemmas relating to national currency. We will not be allowed to have such developments. And all those with responsibility and responsibility for a coordinate state have to say it and react in time. However, the opposition - I am sure - will react to any similar development of institutional blackmail and farce. However, we need another House and another government with a wide range of national cooperation between all democratic forces in Europe, in which the defeated SYRIZA will be invited to participate if he wants to, without it being able to determine developments, but no other party alone should be able to determine developments. Nor is the unscrupulous self-reliance of the New Democracy a solution. Solution is only the cooperation of all those who have to cooperate in the framework of the only national strategy that has been proven to exist, that it is responsible, that it results. Because what is needed is, in fact, a substantial renegotiation. Indeed, we need and we can obtain a financial breathing space, if we ourselves know how to handle the issue, propose the exchange, which is in exchange for brave reforms, and that all presupposes that we will finally have agreed in this place on the correct display of debt, on the correct display of debt flows on an annual basis, and we will have formed a national, negotiating project that will make sense when we discuss with our partners and creditors. Is that the government negotiating? Does that government have a plan? Does this government have a sense of time? No, ladies and gentlemen. And you know what I'm afraid of and I want it to be recorded in the Minutes of today's sitting? That as in view of the comical conflict of June 2015 you gathered and "stored" the reserves of the insurance funds and of the legal persons governed by public law, so now the issue will be linked again to the management of the Bank of Greece's common fund, i.e. the money of legal persons, who are now not going to the state, in order for the State to generously grant the insurance funds again, but will go, in order to pay the European Central Bank and other creditors of the country, as the funds placed by the CSME and the CSME - ATT have been lost in the comic capital increase of Attica Bank. In your day all of this. But I'm warning you. Do not plan to drag the country into a long waiting that eats the flesh of the economy and the nation, until we overcome the risk of a credit event in June by handling such a type, to the detriment of not only the economy vaguely but also the insurers that you have often bailed rhetoric, saying raw and obscene lies. In relation to the media, which must be separated from one side from businesses, businesses that are problematic, indebted and indebted to their administrations and shareholders, everything must be applied to all companies in relation to the restructuring of loans and the restructuring of businesses - and to institutions of democratic pluralism and information that have history, nature, tradition, role, workers, readers, partners, prestige and opinion. This second dimension of the media must be protected, not by a comitology such as that represented by Mr Mulopoulos, but by a regulation which will provide for the continued periodic report of the contractual and digital media which have a business problem, not for the benefit - I repeat - of the managers and shareholders but for the benefit of pluralism and ensuring the interests of workers. In any case, this has already been foreseen since 2013. By a large majority this provision has been passed on to the indebted radio stations. To this end, the Democratic Partnership initiative for a cross-party committee is undoubtedly positive. It is urgent, however, to regulate the issue on the basis of an amendment, because if such matters are dealt with as matters of criminal law and not as matters of institutional law or, of course, as matters of bankruptcy and company law in general. I close, ladies and gentlemen, in relation to the parties and their funding. Let us, on the occasion of the legislative work, have a modern serious debate on how to ensure transparency today in 2017 the funding of the political parties. Let us talk again about the limits and the nature of state funding and the possibility of raising funds from civil society. Let us look at the international examples. Let us speak in a responsible and consensual manner about fundamental democratic institutions. As far as the past is concerned, however, because it has happened on my day as President of the PASOK to give the mandate for the full investigation of the party's finances by the six largest audit firms operating in Greece, I must tell you that this is self-critical and practical transparency. I call on all parties to do the same. When all parties do the same, we can discuss a common, objective basis. If this has not been done in the same courage, in the same absolute way as the other parties, I would ask you to be careful and careful until we have equal treatment. When we have it, we will be able to assess more calmly and objectively the conclusion of the committee of inquiry. Does it result from any element of the finding, that there was a political media lending order? Does it appear that there has been parallel lending of a party and a media loan? This was all until 2015. Now we see a government, we see ruling parties acting in the name of businessmen who manage them, who carry them easily from the field of television licences in the field of newspapers and magazines. We see the interventions being made raw in relation to lending by small non-systemic banks. We see strange intimacies and connections being developed. So when we put them down and when we have the same institutional requirements, we will come to an agreement. But at the moment I note that, unfortunately, you have not learned any lessons from your two-year experience, the deep perspective of the place, not even from the experience of the committee of inquiry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u294	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u295	When you draw the lessons, it will be too late for you. I hope it's not too late for home.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u296	Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, forty students and students and four teachers from the 2nd Kalymnos High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs Annetta Cavadia has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u297	Ladies and gentlemen, we are hearing a great deal in this Chamber today. We hear truths and lies, threats and admonitions, even boldness of censorship by fascismists. And we are watching, as the first samples of writing show, the very acting performance we have seen and during the meetings of the committee of inquiry. The Civic Opposition and the PASOK with a lot of nerve swinging our fingers, trying to disorientate the conversation, to overthrow the truth and convince us about what exactly? That there wasn't a complication. That the banking triangle, the political system and the media didn't prove. Of course I understand the current anguish of representatives of opposition. People have given credentials, even now, to those whom they owe most. But let's look at them. Is it not a concrete proof of interlocutory, that the two parties, New Democracy and PASOK currently owe a total of 420 million? I repeat the number. Four hundred twenty million. They have stopped serving their loans since 2011 and yet the banks for five years have done nothing about it. How and when will these loans be repaid, ladies and gentlemen? We are still waiting for the answer to the question. Is it not true that bank loans to the media amounting to EUR 1.3 billion are, in the majority of them, uncovered, accompanied, however, by hundreds of millions of advertising packages? And these very loans in breach of bank credit policies, although often unhelpful, were not reported for years, were always refinanced on favourable terms and only when the Committee of Inquiry began to operate, the banks finally remembered to ask for part of the funds. With just such loans, the euphemist pluralist briefing was built in Greece, with such "friendly" banking behaviour the - within many introductorys - "independence" of the media in Greece and according to the New Democracy and the PASOK everything was done well. There's nothing unusual about it. In their agony to continue defending the interests that have been served for so many years, the opposition forgets even what it has said in the past. So let Mr Mitsotakis answer us, let the New Democracy answer us. When Costas Karamanlis in Bajraktar was preaching war in strife, didn't he include the pimps in the media? When the government spokesman for the New Democracy and PASOK governance, Simos Kedicoglou, following the meeting with George Sourla, then Secretary General of Transparency on the issue of media interactivity, stated on 10 May 2013: "The need for transparency in the media and especially in their finances is imperative. Has the parties involved been consulted and will he soon be starting with the political parties in order to promote the legislative framework," what exactly did Mr Kedicoglou then mean? That everything's going well? However, Mr Kedicoglou himself and, of course, the Samara - Venizelos Government, instead of imposing transparency on the media, imposed, as we all remember, the 'black' on the ERT. And to continue the retrogression in the past, listen: "Mr. Samaras is very good at cultivating personal relations, with the media and business barons and compliance with the suggestions. Even the election lists of New Democracy have been used to facilitate its consultation with strong players from the media and the business world." Who says that? The New Democracy MEP and journalist George Kyrchos, in his book "Afgion, but dare" published in 2013 on page 420, to continue a little further: "It is common that most of the media, which have a great influence on the formation of public opinion, play the communication game under the terms that serve the Samara government. The mediation system now has a huge contribution to the formulation and implementation of economic policy." This is what the current New Democracy MEP, ladies and gentlemen, said, and this is precisely the problem, they deny that there exists in the media sector, New Democracy and PASOK. Ladies and gentlemen, the citizens of this country know very well if there has been a conflict all these years and if there is still in the media area. They saw it and saw it in the news releases and the headline titles in the booths. They know why so many entrepreneurs, serious and also airline operators, have chosen to invest, of course, not their own money, but the money that banks loaned them abundantly, in channels and newspapers. They did not, of course, in love with the good of information. Besides, all the Midian rulers admitted it in their testimonial testimonies. Everyone said so, but for their competitors, of course, excluding themselves. The truth is very simple. The loans were granted by way of derogation from each banking rule and were not followed by any pretext. There were multiple concessions to various banks of the same state-funded party, loans without the necessary safeguards, typically granted for channels or newspapers, but they ended up in business pockets, with the result that workers journalists, managers and technicians in these media remain unemployed, lose over the years, while media owners still have property. We have many examples: 'ALTER' and 'AFTER' in the past, Doll today. There were scandalous loans for the acquisition of shareholders already owned by the borrower or the same shareholders. This is the case of the newspaper "PRODUCT". This is, ladies and gentlemen, the truth, a stench regime that reproduced its diseases at political, business and financial level in order to maintain power. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to close this speech from the Step of the House, making a special reference to the situation that has been experienced by my fellow Members and colleagues in the media. I am not referring, of course, to the bracelets, but to those journalists who pay crumbs or even the basics, working many hours in a sector with ever-increasing unemployment. You know very well that I come from this industry and I've felt on my side what work insecurity means. That's why I can understand very well what it means to overturn your life from one moment to the next. That is why I think it is shameful - I would even use the word vulgar - to use simple workers as a shield for the protection of their own employers, for these victims to be made on the altar of profits, feasibility and also the victims of the business incompetence of some. As you know, the Prime Minister in the pre-dated debate in Parliament directly stated that the government is willing to help to create a stable institutional framework for media rescue. He called for the agreement of the other political parties in order to have this legislation. Unfortunately, until now, the New Democracy has been silent and for this silence which limits the hopes of saving the jobs of the media in crisis should give an explanation. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, workers in the press do not need your crocodile tears. So respond to the interests of whom you stand for, although, of course, the question is purely rhetoric, as you have shown clearly on your side for years now. Evidently, the workers are not your first priority, except, unfortunately, the Committee of Inquiry has contributed to you so that all the Greek people can consolidate, and with proof, what everyone - with the exception of you, of course - knows, is not about air words but about reality. If for something we can assure those who hear from us, it is that the battle against interlocutory not only does not end, but rather starts now. And no one can say no more that she didn't know.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u298	Mr. Vorides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u299	Thank you, Mr President. Shall we start with that last one? Has it been proven that complexity is a reality with the Committee of Inquiry? Has it been proved by colleagues? Is that what you're saying? It turns out good. It's complicated, then. Complication of who with whom? Obviously the political system is self-evident. Complication without participation of the political system is not meant. Has it been proved? Do we have any defendants? Complication without a defendant? We don't have one? How did it turn out then? [[Noise in the Chamber]] That's not how it works. If the argument has been proved and we are done, then we have also no defendants, otherwise - I beg your pardon, according to my simple logic - it has not been proved. It can't be done. Or one or the other. Both of them can't happen together. In other words, it turned out that we have punitive media transactions and relations with banks because of the intervention of policies, but we did not find any indictment. So, uh, let's go check numbers? All of you now of enlightenment, products of historical materialism, people who believe in the science of your theory, cannot say anything. So let's go see numbers, think about them. In order for there to be something illegal here, as otherwise there can be no strife and something strange, we have to find something illegal, there must be damage. Let's get to know each other. It was 1.3 billion dollars in the media. Yes, sir. What are the unhelpful now? It's 317 million. So how much? Nearly 25%. The rest of them are serviceable? Yes, sir. So that's where we have no damage? Oh, no. Wasn't the Greek people? Oh, no. Wasn't the banking system destroyed by them? That's right. Isn't that right? So for 75% of lending well-built in the sense that they are served. And I ask you. Any non-performing loan is illegal as a loan? Missed an operation. Well given, the banking criteria were applied when it was borrowed. Everything was done normally, but he couldn't. He fell out. He didn't serve it. Any non-performing loan is illegal, too? Oh, no. To say now from the EUR 317 million, what remains. I'm not talking about it. I want you to read your findings when you come here and say these in a uterus. Your conclusion you've read not ours, not someone else. I want you to read what you're saying about what the epilepsy is. You've got a chapter here on the epilepsies. Open up to see what the epileptics are. Can I make you the sum of it? Forty-seven of one, fifty-eight of the other and five. Do you know how much these are? One hundred ten. Of these, ladies and gentlemen, how much is already in justice and is it controlled as a pretext? Let's guess. A hundred ten! What did you add? We spent nine months, we have fifteen thousand pages practically, we read thousands of pages of documents to tell us that the fine loans are the ones that are already pending in justice. Ladies and gentlemen, you have revealed something shocking. Bravo! Well done! It proved to be a theory. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Watch out, however, now, this "Let's go for wool and go out ragged", "Let's go prove this theory about the triangle" and instead of the triangle no one comes up. Invoke all those who came and said there was a complication. I and other colleagues have been asking. Yes, sir. Name? We need a name. Name means the master called the master of the dime and said he should illegally give the next master a loan he shouldn't have taken. Name doesn't exist. But there's one. There's one! He'll be here in a minute to sit there. Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras. He is the one who illegally asked to receive a loan for SYRIZA and even in writing. A name came up with us. The truth is that. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And the man in his naivety - what can I say, I'm dealing with the criminal, and Nikos left - had him sign these, that is, in writing, inciting him to insult. The moral automobile is not in any trouble to prove it. It goes, "treno", when the other person comes to you and says "please, please, bend the rules of bank borrowing, i.e. do not apply what you have to do" - is what you say - "to borrow". And then you have the other shocking argument. Where's Mr. Famelos? He's gone. It is a pity because I wanted to give him a solution to the problem of the borrowing of the New Democracy. But you know now, an equal solution, what you like. Equality! Just like for each other. Hey, what are you talking about? Let me ask Mr. Femello. Can we do for our loans, too, what you did for yours? 'Cause that came up too. For colleagues who don't know about it...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u300	Do it! We challenge you!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u301	Say what you did and then we'll see what we'll do. Let me say that, though. I see you're upset. Some colleagues may not know that. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Do I have one more minute, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u302	Of course, just one more minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u303	Thank you. If you do not know this, you are legally - this is your claim - Catholic successors of a party called Greek Left. That's what you say. This is your claim for your evolution. It's controlled as to whether it's accurate, but that's what you say. This nice party was indeed revealed in the Committee of Inquiry that its loan, the bank owed it, cut it by 60%! Can we all do the same to solve our issues? What you did, do and the other parties are your opinion? What do you think, Mrs. Kozobol? Should we cut it or not by 60%? Equivalently with you. But I have other questions why you're talking about transparency. Why don't you have no kindness until today to tell us this nice offshore coming up... [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Listen to something. You have voted with us, we have all voted for it here, that it is an illegal act, ladies and gentlemen, the participation of a Member of Parliament in offshore.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u304	Since when does that apply?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u305	That has been true since then, from us. It's not yours, it's ours.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u306	Mr. Voridis, time has passed. Put the perfect one on.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u307	I shall conclude, Mr President. Question now: Why did we put this on? So that MPs don't hide assets, unfair transactions and all that, huh? Why aren't the shareholders on offshore? Why are the shareholders not seen in offshore, the ones you condemn, aren't they? They're suspicious of this. Yes, sir. Why do you offshore have kids on "SEE"? And we're asking you to tell you...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u308	It's not offshore.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u309	It's not offshore. It's a "off" shoot. It's Cypriot. Who's the man who's behind? That's the owner of this farce offshore, why don't you tell us? And he comes handsome and comfortable, Mr. of the newspaper "SYGI" and says "I don't know". What don't you know? Where did you get the money from? No one's coming to your convention? You didn't ask? And if that kid's a drug baron, and you've been put into the share capital, did you get them without asking a question?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u310	Mr. Voridis, time's up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u311	So that, Mr President, which has emerged from all this fine process, is that 'yes', you did not prove anything. Nothing more. Is there anything else I can tell you? I hear he says he's going to the prosecutor's office. What's going on? He's not writing anything. Everything the DA's done is in here. Is that supposed to go? So he can do the prosecution he's already done again? Nothing adds to it. But let me say one more thing. If you didn't make rumors for the civilians, what are we here? Prosecutor's office? Are we Bank of Greece? Are we a supervisory mechanism? You're messing with it. And through this, after nine months, I do not read a proposal for legislation. I don't read a proposal for legislation! So the treasure's carbon. There is indeed a complication, it has a beautiful name and it has an army.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u312	It's over, Mr. Voridis. Time's up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u313	I'm ending with half the phrase. The only army, which you have attempted to do, is one simple one: this is all, along with Mr Pappa's effort to manipulate the media, along with the senator Moulopoulos and the committee of inquiry, a mechanism to intimidate the freedom of expression of the opinion of democracy in the media! That goes down today. That's what we're coming back to you. That stays like a stigma.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u314	Mr Panos Skourletis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u315	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u316	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u317	They say the best defense is the attack. Is that always true? Because it has asked many questions, but no answer has so far been given for one and the main question that concerns you. I will remind you again, and I hope that the other speakers from PASOK and the New Democracy will bother to answer what they are thinking about doing with their loans. Watch out. You are elected as Members of the New Democracy. The New Democracy, however, is a weighted title. Now you're using this bankrupt title and you're elected, you get a goodwill. Where does that lead to market conditions? Can you do that? Do you think of a company that has gone bankrupt and that others go into its name and sell, buy, be elected? Should you give part of your salary, since you have been elected in the name of the New Democracy, so that, together with the state grant you receive, you can once repay this loan? For thought. I'm making a suggestion. I think we'll see. Let's go down. Faced with the question of whether this committee of inquiry should be made - which is not pre-examination, examination - is and you know that there is a difference - the uncertain answer is'surely and yes'. Not for bringing things to the surface that Greek society did not know about. They have been so intense that relations with each other have been sealed over the last few decades. Thanks to these interactive and clientele relationships that you had created, you were able to achieve and you had a truly unique European data for a two-party political system that gave you 70% -75%. Only this collapsed and collapsed with a stumbling and inherited the social and economic bankruptcy that we are called upon to manage. So this committee of inquiry had to be carried out in order to deepen, to make a systematic approach to things and to reach a point where the time of justice would come. So don't rush, this material will go where it needs and from there on, we'll see if the questions you ask will be answered so lightly with your heart. After all, in many cases without voices, without crowns, there is a systematic work being done by the present government to discover and control the lists and the ones who pulled them out and various other cases. We never had a revelation before, and we had no investigation into such cross-border transfers of money abroad. And this was reflected in the over-recruitment of the year's revenues that was closed. To speak with certain facts. But I saw that here there is a competition among people who spoke, and I really find it hard for who to award the prize. To Mr. Mitarakis, as the man who said the first joke of the year, saying that the argument began on SYRIZA? To Mr Venizelos who came to plead for insurance funds, the instigator of the PSI, the great ressalto made in the reserves, on which is due to the bankruptcy of the social security funds or Mr Loverdos, who told us that we do not even have the right to talk about these issues? I do understand why these positions are made. It is precisely because you want to cover up through screams, through arguments, which are a waste of those which are on your hands and those which have partly led to the current economic deadlocks. Yes, I agree that it is not the media business, the over-expansion of the parties, which has led to the big problems of the banks. It is the one side of the triangle of interlocutory, which was clearly demonstrated once again by arguments, from what we did not give, we did not discover them, the Bank of Greece gave them, the banks gave them. They don't have a different approach. They opened mouths. Truth has been heard and others will be heard along the way. And you know what? When the world that we have been watching and standing many times critical of what we have done and done, because we have not been able to satisfy many things that we have promised, do you know what it says to us? "State at least, because truths are heard." Make a secret golf, you people like polling, and depending on the result, make it public or not. Go and ask those who trade with the public today if they have been taken away from the cost of the work they do, the hatreds they have given to take jobs in the public sector, the public suppliers. So go on, you who have great relations with the business world and say: 'Now, in the two years of SYRIZA, what's going on, guys? How do you find things? Have they been somehow cleaned?’ Because I from my experience in a government position was something that I was told in my ears. You may disagree on various things, but you are not by hand like this all the time, just like the previous ones. Ladies and gentlemen, although I am not optimistic that the questions will be answered by the end, I would like to tell you that this recipe, this practice, this system of interlocutory that you had established in previous years, was a success. You have, in fact, managed a country that has led it to the deadlocks, from 2010 to 2015, to have your own governments. And we remember all those who dated 20: 00' on the windows who told us how much it was necessary to cut the minimum wage by law, how much it was necessary to lay off alpha or beta workers, how they constantly justified the hardest policies this place has ever known. Yes, it was the interlocutory relationships you had built. Ladies and gentlemen, we are once again as a country at a critical moment, in a negotiation through which they are judged enough and you have chosen not to sit aside. Let us say that you do not feel the responsibility, even on some points, which we could agree to have a common voice. Your party ego doesn't leave you. And you, gentlemen, of the Democratic Association and of the PASOK, who are supposed to be in a remodeling phase, have been in the hotels again all the old people, even on the occasion of this debate, did not make the most self-criticism. Of course, I recommend the first thing you have to do, beyond the reconstructing and reunification of the centre-left is to convince you that you are not centre-right. Because as long as you are on the chariot of neoliberalism, it is certain that this strategic roaming you have been in recent years will continue. To return to what I started before, however, these hours of negotiation, which come after the successful closure of the first assessment, you have chosen not only to table your disagreements, but, through the intervention of your Chief, in fact, to give a vote of confidence to the 4.5 billion measures requested by Mr Soyble and the International Monetary Fund. And systematically refuse to say what your position is on duty is, systematically refuse to say what your position is on personal disparity, systematically refuse to place yourself on what you say about industrial relations. To some, as Mr Brutsi said, it is unacceptable for collective redundancies to have vetoed by the Minister, who is one of the last protection measures against collective redundancies. And before he even gets on the table, and you give that to the opponent. So this is your offer today, the ultimate coordination with the International Monetary Fund and Mr Shoeble. Do you know why? Because you're extreme anti-social and neoliberal. And through this, you basically support those views that lead the European Union to new adventures. So you are not the best expressions of a concept that cares about the future of the European peoples. Your views are those that strengthen the extreme right, it is your view that strengthen centrifugal forces. And now that you are given an opportunity to take a stand that could somehow restore the authority of your resignation, you choose once again the undermining of an effort, which, in fact, from what we hear from everywhere, at least tries to create, to bring about the best possible outcome. Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue what we have done over the past two years, to serve, in the way we understand, the common interest, to try to be consistent in the context of a painful compromise that we made in September 2015, and that is what the world recognizes us, which, despite criticism, sometimes justified, gives us time. That gives us optimism. That gives us confidence in our ideas. And be sure that the result will not be good for the present government. But it will be the best possible for the great majority of the Greek people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u318	The President of the KKE Parliamentary Group, Dimitris Koutsoubas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u319	Ladies and gentlemen, the various possible scenarios written and said these days about whether, when and how the evaluation will be closed, they cannot hide from the people that the harsh reality they are living in, their further impoverishment, their removal and the last working rights they have left are not a scenario. It is a comprehensive anti-grass plan, which is taking the step on behalf of capital. And just because, gentlemen of the government, you serve this direction, you will do your best to complete the evaluation. And all you say is that you are not going to vote for a single euro, the people are now listening to it. In order not to list what he has heard you say not only before as a Qualified Opposition, but also as a government over the last two years. Of course, the exacerbation of the contradictions between the various international centres and the strengthening of centrifuges and tendencies within the Eurozone, the more general developments in the course of the economic crisis, have their own dynamics. It is all that you are trying to hide behind the well-known fairy tale of evil and good - when good is the European Union and the bad IMF, when the reverse is - to corner the people among them. And as for the debate that began again on Grexit and does not fit in, the essence lies in the undeniable fact that today the cohesion of the European Union, the euro area, is not a given one. It will be tested even further in the next period as a result of the intensity of the anisometry of its Member States, the crisis, which brings new contradictions to the surface, which may no longer be bridged as before. That is why we see - at least temporarily - the current of protectionism and nationalism in the economy. Brexit, the Trump policy in the United States, the Eurosceptical trend in the European Union, in general, which is growing, are such aspects that internationalisation - which is an objective process in the modern capitalist world - goes hand in hand with the different level of development, anisometry, as we say, between the various countries, with the fact that the reproduction of capital is basically carried out within the framework of national states and the associations that are involved. There is therefore no way to create any more new transnational alliances and monetary, but as reactent as the European Union. So what the JRC tells the Greek people is that it must not be trapped in the various designs of capital, urban order, as a whole or parts of it that determine their international alliances and their choices based on their interests and the greater exploitation of workers. The struggle of the people's movements in Greece and across Europe must be geared to a solution to a philosophical outlet from this situation, with the people in power, with the design of the socialised economy, with the release of all the twilights and not to be lured into solutions that suggest other forces, condemning the European Union and the Eurozone, but their line leads to the breath of life, rejuvenation of the urban forces, the same capitalist way of production, the barbarity that this encloses and we have lived for years in our lap. Ladies and gentlemen, the story of the negotiation must be closed because at the end, supposedly, the workers, the blackmailing of the election and the bogeyman of political instability, and the scenario of the wider consensus with the other parties, with which you can share the responsibility of anti-population policy, of course, are intended to unleash the next package of anti-population measures prepared. Because as you and New Democracy are used to saying, the aim is to return to normality. For you return to normality it means that our people consider everything that has been lost in the years of crisis as past - forgotten and, of course, resign from any requirement that he and his children live better. For you, return to normality means compromise with unemployment, poverty, impoverishment. Back to normality for you are, for example, NATO's presence in the Aegean Sea, the decisions you have voted on and constitute war preparations for Russia. For you it tends to become normal for our people to learn to live with Turkish aggression and provocativeness, to see the Turkish generals make allegedly excursions - as was written - in Imia. We have already denounced, as a party, the violation of Greek territorial waters in the Imian region by Turkish warships, in the presence of the leaders of the Turkish armed forces, last Sunday. And you have a responsibility, gentlemen of the government, because you are trying to have a climate of reassurance to our people. There is another calming, responsible attitude and not to tell the Greek people properly. Do not understand the seriousness of the situation created by the Turkish seekers for grey areas in the Aegean Sea, which forms competition between the urban ranks of the countries of the region for the geostrategic upgrading of these urban classes, together with the exacerbation of competition in the Middle East, North Africa, the Eastern Mediterranean. The positions of all those who are supposed to be guarantors of the European Union and NATO are dangerous, or are still talking about European or naval borders in the Aegean. These positions have nothing to do with the real defence of the country's sovereign rights. And, of course, the naval presence in the Aegean is not only preventing, but also depreciating this Turkish aggression. At the same time for the unsolved forty-two years of problem of occupation in Cyprus, you are actually supporting de facto partition through a new Annan-type plan. Ladies and gentlemen, to come to the main theme of today's debate, which is the conclusion of the Committee of Inquiry into the loans of parties and the media, that is to say another committee of inquiry added to the tens that have been set up in recent decades. We have already tabled the conclusion of the party representative in the committee where we draw the positions and conclusions in detail. If we want to say this with a word, we'd say - no matter how much you disagree and the SYRIZA rapporteurs said - that the treasure is finally carbon. That's perfectly true! Not now, of course, the truth shone, nor now has the knife reached the bone, to reuse your favourite expression. On the contrary, the sepsis, corruption, the complexity remain, they have not been dealt with. Of course, we say that they cannot be treated with the specific governments that have been changing for decades - and yours together - within this rotten system. In setting up the Committee of Inquiry, the government has tried to throw the ball at the platform and has taken advantage of the examination to draw the attention of the people from the very tough measures it is haggling and thinking about implementing the third memorandum - with the support of the other parties, of course - in order to maintain a false copy, political climate, in order to hide the strategic conclusion to unpopular restructuring imposed by the big chapter and by the European Union. And that makes sense. We understand you. What are you opposed to? Fighting the racing? Take the farmers, for example, now. They are on the blocks so that no government, European Union, CFP and monopolies can be redeemed. Blocked by aid and subsidies, the government presents poor farms, claiming that it has no reason to mobilize it. But the same - in other words - was said before the New Democracy, PASOK, when they were, of course, in the government. And, of course, this controversy is not going to touch on the substance, which is the policy of your parties which manages this rotten system, the interests of the bourgeoisie, in other words - to be more precise - the system that forms interconnectors with monopolistic groups and large capital. The staff of your own system say that those who mainly bribe are the major groups, to increase their profits, their market shares. Isn't ‘SIEMENS’ and recently ‘NOVARTIS’, too? So those who are trying to hide the umbilical cord that connects these phenomena to the hunting of profit, presenting them as issues of fundamental morality, the fight against which depends on the relative political will, all you do is actually mock the world. If the Government and the other parties really wanted to promote transparency in the face of the scandals, they would have adopted repeated JRC proposals for compulsory conversion of all shares into nominal, for the abolition of all secrets - banking, business, tax, commercial - to ban outwards, to control the export of funds. However, you are rejecting all this without question, because all this is legitimate for your system, for the European Union, for your order. And let's pretend to be the strangers! You're not naive! By setting up the Committee of Inquiry into the loans of parties and the media, you have attempted - among other things - to obscure the role of banks, which in recent years have been supported and strengthened with a total of billions, which has, of course, been loaded back on the backs of the Greek people. You are trying to obscure all the red loans that the International Monetary Fund has recently estimated at 100 billion. Of these, it is estimated that 60 billion are red business loans. The 12 billion owed eight hundred large monopolies and the remaining 30 billion other six thousand large companies. In other words, 40 billion of red loans are due to large groups. Of course, these are red loans. Really, why didn't these 40 billion, which were given to these groups? Why was it not checked whether the legality was respected if all the banking procedures for granting the loans concerned were respected? Why simply in the name of impressions is the question of examination limited to the financing of parties, media funding? Ladies and gentlemen, in this sense we say that the work of the committee was limited to examining a small part of the total lending of the financial system. The committee's work was concerned only with examining loans to the media and parties, which amounted to about 1.8 billion, but which are a drop in the ocean compared with the hundreds of billions of other entrepreneurs. Loans to enterprises account for 53.8% of total financing. Of the EUR 94.8 billion loans to households, non-performing is 45.7%, while from EUR 145.8 billion to business, non-performing is 44.75%. The work of the Committee confirmed that banks treated loans to households differently from those to enterprises. The loans to households are, of course, higher interest rates and are therefore more expensive. Housing loans ensure banks with collateral and guarantees, such as property mortgage. On the other hand, for large companies they have low interest rates, and to a large extent they are granted without any practical guarantees. It is confirmed that the financial system is the heart of the system, fuelling businesses with cheap money, at the same time leading to long-term hostage through lending to people's households, small businesses. There is no serious criticism of the claim made by the bank representatives that this differentiation, namely favourable treatment, is due to the high operational cost of managing thousands of loans to households, precisely because at the same time the risks to the bank are far greater in the event of a loan of EUR 100 million to a company. Of course, groups active in the media sector would not be able to exclude favourable treatment. Loans to enterprises active in the media sector do not escape. On the other hand, they confirm the rule of favourable treatment and are granted without guarantees for their repayment. Of course, by setting up the committee you have attempted, gentlemen of the government, to sum up the fact that every day, you are violating every concept of objective media information - private and also state - because the media remain the property of large capital. In various ways, these interests try to serve. You know very well that control of information is a tool for manipulating and integrating popular discontent. And the great losers again will be the workers in these instruments and the people's right to information. That's the basic thing. And don't tell us again as an argument, control over 'DOL'. These developments are linked both to the course of the crisis itself and its impact on the media and to the efforts of the government to promote the redistribution of the pie in the media sector, by promoting its own alliances, as any civil government does. The current government has always sought to create friendly relations with enterprises active in the media sector, to create a favourable environment for it. Check, as we say, these instruments. And of course, he controlled the state media. So today's governance tried - and is trying again - to share the pie with old and new business groups again. This is also the basis for dealing with the chapter of parties serving its interests. The favourable lending of the New Democracy and PASOK is one aspect of this support. Political responsibilities are given. Further investigation of the findings of the Committee of Inquiry into the loans of parties and media and any criminal responsibilities is a matter for the competent authorities. And since we are talking about transparency and corruption, to have the good question: Where exactly is this case of intercepts, of conferences on telephone centres of political parties, as the JRC had said in particular? It's been over three months and no voice and no hearing. There were no official briefings, only leaks and publications in various newspapers. Do you go, again for full cover or did your lines get involved between the NSA, the police, every state and state mechanism, the foreign services that still perpetuate in our country? We look forward to our acoustics not for a new conference - the monitoring of untrained agents, obviously, but for a substantial, clear and concrete update and disclosure of these circuits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u320	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Greek Parliament, forty students and students and three educational sessions from the School of Second Opportunity Assos Lechios Korinthias. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Nikolaos Syrizas has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u321	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Ladies and gentlemen, today's day can be historic, because what we are discussing today, the conclusion of the Committee of Inquiry, after nine months of work and meetings, is a conquest for democracy, conquest for the parliamentary system, conquest for the political system of the country, a political system which, for many years, has been in complete strife with the banks and the large media, sought in every way to reproduce it, indifferent to the damage it caused in the country and the Greek people, a system of power and interlocutors which has lent over 3,3 billion to the media and over 420 million to the former major power parties, New Democracy and the PASOK, which is no case in any case being repaid in three or four hundred years. To finish with the issue of SYRIZA borrowing, I will say: SYRIZA has been borrowed totalling 27 million and has paid over 18 million. His loans are well-informed, unlike the loans of the New Democracy and the PASOK, which have been denounced, loan credits and unscrupulously that both parties of power have used them for incredible expenses of projecting, advertising, operating and handling voters, particularly in electoral times, to ensure their re-election. Everyone remembers the hundreds of thousands of people who went to the offices of PASOK and the New Democracy to ensure tickets to their areas. I will only isolate two wordings from the testimony to the Committee of Inquiry by the last Presidents of the Bank of Greece, Mr Stournaras and Mr Provopoulou, who are all but supporters of SYRIZA. Mr Stournaras said that out of the 842 million loans to the media, only 256 million were guaranteed. In other words, the banks provided loans without collateral. And to remind the son of Psych, who gladly told us that he was receiving loans with air. So this is a major offense - which we are sure will investigate - which has produced the results that we all see now: bankrupt enterprises with road workers - 'DOL', 'ALTER', 'MEGA', etc. - with rich owners who, of course, took care of their profits abroad. Mr Provopoulou told us that the loans of the parties from the Agricultural Bank with the guarantee of future state funding are inadequate guarantee, while at the same time the Bank of Greece's finding that the loans from the two parties cannot be repaid. I would like to remind you here that the final report by Prosecutor Kaloudi on the parties' loans was a result of the complaints made by the current Secretary of the New Democracy, Aygeakis, who was then part of another party, to Mrs Bakoyannis' party, the Democratic Alliance, before Mrs Bakoyannis was incorporated into the New Democracy. It is clear that this findings report will be retracted from the record with all the offences resulting from the work of the inquiry. Accelerating some of the serious offences revealed by the work of the Committee of Inquiry, I mention the refinancing of the interest on past loans in breach of credit rules, loans with no or no guarantees at all, the multiple lending of the same obligors for different companies with the same owners, the lending of media companies with exclusive shareholders of offshore companies, the simultaneous future allocation of state funding by many banks as guarantee for the same loan of the parties, the false declarations by representatives of the New Democracy to a specific bank that does not grant future state funding at the same time to other banks. The feature of the interlocutory is also shown by specific amendments tabled and voted by the House. The first was with L.4071/2012, which defined as inappropriate state funding to parties against the banking system and the second was the amendment by the well-known three Members of the New Democracy, Mr. Stamenitis, Mr. Tsumanis and Mr. Christogiannis, under article 78 of Law 4446/2013, which did not account for unfaithfulness to the President, the members of the boards of directors and the members of the banks for the lending of legal persons or private law. Cretan case of offences that appeared in the media licensing process is the case of the newspaper "PROTIFIC THEMA", where after the establishment of the initial company in 2005 with their original shareholders Themo Anastasiades, Anastasios Karamitsos and Maki Triantafyllopoulou, a new company is founded in 2007, "NANAPTYXIAKI", which takes a loan of 18 million from Piraeus Bank, with which shareholders buy their own shares in the "RO THEMA" without the company "NAPTYXIAKI" presenting any activity. In 2010, a new loan of 18,000,000 was granted again by Piraeus Bank to a new company called "NEO THEMA", the same main shareholders, Anastasiades and Karamitsos, to acquire 70% of the company "NAPTYXIAKI", which had been given to the company "PEGASOS". The money collected, a total of EUR 12.5 million, was not even reimbursed for the first loan, while a pledge had been made. In other words, they were borrowed with total debt today of 44 million companies of the same persons, of whom two were virtual without any activity. The irreversible questions raised are: First, why has the Bank not complied with its policy of crediting that the creditor must be particularly careful in the event of crediting the related creditors, in this case to the same creditors? Secondly, why did the redemption price not be credited for the write-down of the loan? Third, with which guarantees and the possibility of repayment of loans were decided, when the ‘NAPPXIAKI’ had a reduction in equity or when the ‘CORDER THEME’ had a net negative position in 2009, but also a fall in turnover from 2008 to 2014, when the replacement of a guarantee from ‘PGIOS’ by guaranteeing new shareholders was neither an equivalent in terms of solvency nor sufficient measures were taken to compensate for the very high risk? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. In any case, what solvency can a person's company, such as Themos Anastasiades, have with the well-known past of arresting and confiscation of cheques on the French Swiss border, but also a recent decision of the Court of Auditors, which counts him with the obligation to return 4 million to the Greek State? Ladies and gentlemen, I think that the work of the committee has been positive from the outset. Just because all the developments and complaints of loans by the banks were made after the establishment of the examination it is confirmed that we have achieved the objectives, objectives for the resolution principle of the political system and for the return of responsibilities to all those who have for many years expressed the multi-teaching system of interdependence. And that would never happen if that government hadn't been there. Besides, why didn't it happen all these years? It is, at least, a comical attempt to compare the elephant with the ant, as they tried to do by misleading the world with the supposed scandal of Koumoundouros or the non-existent offshore of the newspaper "AGEY" with the glossy amount of 2% participation, a Cypriot company which took part in the open invitation to increase the share capital of the newspaper "AGEAN". Today the committee is completing its work. The House has the floor and then Greek justice.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u322	Ladies and gentlemen, please hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u323	I shall conclude, Mr President. We have complete confidence in the justice procedures and that responsibility will be attached to either bank representatives or to the media or, finally, to the faces of the political system. Be sure that after the completion of these procedures it will not be easy to revive the old rotten political system, which produced or tolerated "SIEMENS", "NOVARTIS", "CEEPAN", structured bonds, the stock exchange scandal, air loans, all of which led the country to the brink of bankruptcy and the memoranda and placed the great majority of the Greek people in the credit.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u324	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u325	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u326	Mr Michaelakos, President of the People's League - Golden Dawn, then Mr Rabbit from the same party, then Mrs Kozobol and Mrs Gennimatas from the Presidents. Please, Mr. Michaelako, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u327	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, many and important scandals denounced by the previous speaker, but we have not seen anything to do for two years. Looks like you think you're still in Civicism and you're not government. Before I refer to the issue of today's sitting, as many of the speakers have done, I would like to refer to some sad phenomena, for which the government is directly responsible, such as the famous concentrations, which are carried out at every legal gathering of the Golden Dawn. A few weeks ago in Xanthi transported indignant coached civilians with police escorted them into the city. The same happened a few days ago in Veria. We also had the same at a congress and on Saturday, which spent 28 of the month, when the Golden Dawn organized its great gathering every year in honor of the three brave officers of our Navy, who fell in favor of faith and patronage in Imia. The most comical of all is that before we announce the concentration, which we usually do on the last Saturday of January, anticoncentration was announced. Are you a government democratic leftist, as you say, or are you EPE in the 1950s and 1950s? Because concentrations from indignant civilians were then becoming. I'm very sorry, but it looks like you're trapped in a parastate protected by you, which every weekend burns Athens. Every weekend we have a crowd of molotov bombs in the field of the Polytechnic, where they burn trolley and watch them - apparently - with apathy. At the same time, we reached the point, while leaving a lot of free people, after a few non-confidences in most cases, to have the phenomenon for the first time in Greece's history of condemning a leading Monastery of Mount Athos to twenty years in prison for molotov! We honoured the Imias last Saturday, which has already been mentioned by other speakers. We had a pre-dated question on the level of party leaders here in Parliament - the Minutes exist - where in the House I told you: "This government and the opposition here say that the Aegean is Greek and denounce the Turks who question our sovereignty. In a few days, twenty-one years will be completed by the tragic, great sacrifice of three brave officers of our Navy on the rocky islands of the Imian. I call on the Greek Parliament, a delegation of Members from all the parties to go to Imia, to testify to a crown and to raise a Greek flag. Only then will we accept that Imia is Greek." We have called on all of us, no one has done anything, everyone has been silent, and instead of a delegation of Members of the Greek Parliament to go to the rocky islands of the Imian people and testify to a wreath, we have had the visit of the Turkish Chief of HNDGS to Imia, a clear challenge against our national sovereignty. This is also a sign of the policy of grey zones, which, of course, is not your own policy, but you inherited it, but we, as Golden Dawn, did not accept it at that time as a small extra-parliamentary party and did not accept it today. For this reason, at the National Council of Golden Dawn, which took place on 17 December 2016, we decided: Against the Turkish threat we believe that Greece should take a clear position with a Greek casus belli, which will be passed by the Greek Parliament, against the Turks' claims in the Aegean, as well as with Erdogan's threat that it will bring millions of refugees and illegal immigrants home. Your humanism, as I referred to illegal immigrants, proved to be inadequate, if not hypocritical. Four people died in summer scenes, at the same time that the relevant government ministers told you they'd rent them apartments and residences, put them in a container and all that. Four of them died of whacks! And at this point you all agree, the political establishment of this country, which is united is against the Golden Dawn, as well as the media. Nobody said a word. There's no issue in the news reports. Absolute silence! I will close my report on the Imperial anniversary, reminding a tragic person, one of the protagonists on that day, the then Foreign Minister, Mr. Theodore Pangalou, who had said to Admiral Lyberris: 'Can we not say that the air took the flag?' I will answer that "yes, the air took it and went to every corner of the Greek land, where there are golden and golden globes, which raise the Greek flag high! [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] However, we had other incidents, in relation to the Saturday gathering and was broadcast the next morning by the second channel of state television. We had a statement from the President of ERT, Mr Tsakni, who said attributes: "The ERT had recently sent a question to the National Broadcasting Council on whether or not it is required to broadcast the speeches and events of the Golden Dawn. The EPP has decided that, under Article 15 of the Constitution, ERT must respect the principle of proportionality and, on the other hand, must not transmit manifestations of racism and xenophobia, legal concepts which, as the text of the decision states, have not yet been treated and qualified in law.' And that is what the PSE, led by a former President of the Ice Bay, says.” And Mr Tsaknis continues: "For this reason, the administration of ERT decides: The talks of Golden Dawn officials will not be broadcast live. Secondly, a Staff Committee shall be set up, which shall determine whether the material of the recording is contagious or not.’ In other words, in simple words, what the President of the PSE, who happened to be President of the Ice Bay, could not judge a commission of Mr Tsakni and the ERT party, too. 'For the independence and the uninterrupted functioning of the committee, I guarantee myself'. And you are told by the newspaper "EXTIA" in its comment entitled "Language" that it is institutionalised preventive censorship, which is not permitted in the Greek constitutional order. Of course, Mr Chucknis invokes Article 15 of the Constitution, which is a follow-up to that article of the Constitution, which provides that the press is free and does not accept censorship. And it says that for radio and television it is under direct state control, and so it should be. However, at a time when they are freely broadcast from the channels of the pimps you supposedly dispersed - and you did nothing - pornography, even advertising, at the same time there is no censorship about them. There's only reason for the Golden Dawn. It is characteristic that even for my speech today we have been transferred from the ERT not to worry and that it will be transmitted directly. In other words, there would even be a chance that I could speak here in this House and wait for the ERT party committee to approve it to be broadcast. These are things that are unprecedented. One of the speakers once again raised the question of evaluation and what is to be done. It is clear that it is open for the government not to accept the conditions set by our creditors and to proceed to elections, which I do not believe will be the case. You have shown that you are willing to grant everything in order to remain in power, how much more so that in the event of elections you cannot claim power. And that's proud. I would, however, like the New Democracy to say its position at this point, because they rub their hands between them and say that the evaluation will not pass, we will go to elections and take power. Take a certain position for the measures. What would she do? Would she vote for them or would she vote against them? Because if he intends to vote, let him stop the micro-political game and vote for it, as he has actually done, when voting for the memorandum tabled by SYRIZA on 14 August 2015, which we voted against. Everything else is pretexts, cheap propaganda and they have no basis. It is a given, of course, that you are politically finished and that will appear whenever elections are held. In fact, your Member, Mr Xydakis, made a statement, which prompted the immediate correction, which reads as follows: "We had a drachma before the euro in 1910, in 1912, in 1930, in 1980. He did something a country, we kind of lived. We lived in other periods.' I put this conversation historically. Mr. Xydakis says nothing different from what I still said in 2012 in the memorandum debate, that Greece can live without the euro. And on this is our position as Golden Dawn, because we believe in a coordinate withdrawal from the euro, always according to the will of the people. The people have to decide, perhaps a referendum will also be held. We consider as the only solution for the economic regeneration of the nation a return to national currency, while returning to national production. This is not an economic position, it is also a political and ideological position. A country that does not have a national currency is not a national independent country. I come to the conclusion of the committee. Media debt: chaos endless! You've done nothing or you're going to fix things. What has happened is a battle of impression. Look at the lion at night. Caesar's wife is not enough to be honest. It must seem fair. And yes, it also matters the debt you have, for which you had mortgaged the property of Koumoundouros, and 2% of the offshore newspaper "AGEI" and certainly very important is the sale of "902" by the JRC to an offshore company for EUR 6 million. But all this has not been put to the committee. And not only did they not set themselves up, but they participated in the committee and people who have played with television licences. About the parties' debts now. In the House, Mr. Kourublis replied that in 2016 the parliament had total funding for the parties of 6.5m euros. Not to say many numbers, how much was the first dose, how much was the second instalment, I note: New Democracy received a total of EUR 1.712.737 and PASOK - DIMAR, Democratic Co-responsibility - as you say - EUR 428.203. At the same time, these parties owe a total of 215 million New Democracy and PASOK 199 million. It is assumed that this money, which is the money of the Greek people, will never be repaid. And I do not know if the vote legalises everything, but it certainly does not legalize some of the Greek people to have stolen money, not to pay them back, to be present in the Greek Parliament and, furthermore, to have the courage to talk about us and say that we are using upright hatreds. What's the hate rhetoric? This is where I talk with numbers. New Democracy owes 215 million. And all the party financing it gives, it takes about a hundred and fifty years to clear it up, which is not because by law you made sure that it doesn't happen. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] A few minutes please, Mr. President. Of course we have the conclusion on May 2, 2012. The investigation into the debts of the media and of the parties began and ended up - not to bore you - in the Kaloude finding, which, of course, blamed for for forty bank executives and party leaders and the New Democracy and the PASOK and the JRC. But we have a famous law, which is not law, it is an article of the Constitution, Article 86, the Law on the Responsibility of Ministers, which relieves ministers and Prime Ministers of course of their political responsibilities. I have once again proposed, and I will repeat, that there should be a suspension of articles of the constitution in a state of siege. Yes, proportional to a siege situation is what happens, the moral siege situation. Wherever you go, in every corner of Greece, at every cafeteria, they say the politicians and the parties are thieves. Let us take an initiative, all three hundred, to vote for the suspension of the law on the responsibility of the ministers. Perhaps it is not constitutionally elegant, but it is morally fair and will be applauded and welcomed by the entire Greek people. Of course, the conclusion of the Prosecutor of Kaloudi was asking, as I said, for criminal prosecution. In the summer of 2013, the financial prosecutor Mr. Athanasiou invited the authors of the findings of the Bank of Greece for clarification. All the things that had the Kaloude finding didn't make it out of his mind. They were the findings of the Bank of Greece. On the evening of July 4 and three New Democracy MPs in an unrelated bill tabled an amendment that defensives bankers and party officials retrospectively. Immediately the Members of the New Democracy and PASOK vote in favour of the amendment and give amnesty to all of them. Why have you not abolished this law yet? Why do you leave him and there is? And finally, when our representative on the Committee of Inquiry, Elias Cassidy, asked for the three Members to be called as witnesses who tabled the amendment, why didn't you call them? What was the reason you didn't want to get an explanation from these three? What did they have? Inspiration? Did the divine spirit suddenly come and tell them to make this amendment? So everything stopped thanks to the favorable arrangement of the Samara - Venizelos Government. I would like to finish by saying that in the seven years of the memorandum, you two belong. Enjoy them. The cleansing, which you pre-electioned, proves to be a great lie. Two years of government SYRIZA did not go bankrupt only by the country, the Left went bankrupt. You're not the first time left, you're the first and last time left.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u328	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how it operates, thirty-six students and students and two of their teachers from the High School of Agia Larissa. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Rabbit has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u329	We came here today to participate in another shadow theatre, as I would describe it, to discuss and impliedly pay tribute when not all of you want to blame anyone. There was a committee of inquiry that lasted a little less than a year. The committee has heard things and wonders and they have been heard mainly by the pressure exerted by only one parliamentary party, only the Golden Dawn with its representative, when all the others want you to cover up. There is one big question here: why did you do this committee of inquiry? We have previously heard the representative of the SYRIZA and President of the Commission, Mr Famello, go out and talk in a way that, if anyone could hear him without knowing who this gentleman is, what he represents, and especially what his party has got for them, he would say that this man came to committee and took the heads of the big-governors, the big-workers, the big-fashioned ones. He spoke as if things were clear, as if they were punished and the guilty will pay. But, after that speech, he forgot to tell us that SYRIZA in his finding does not account for any responsibility to anyone. He talks in general and vaguely. He lets everything hover, saying somewhere, once something happened. That is the reason for his party. We also heard him say that they finally put in a class. He said "we have brought the big-timers - and the great-workers, I would say, those who do what they want in Greece for the last forty-five years - to prove to them that they cannot do what they want in the Greek Parliament". But that was the worst thing that ever happened. They came to the Greek Parliament and did what they wanted. If there wasn't the representative of the Golden Dawn, these people would go off the top and ask them for forgiveness, as you actually did. So we ask: after all this thorough clean-up that has taken place for nine to ten months, what are the consequences? Are there or are there no irregularities? Have money been stolen or not stolen? Have Greek government money disappeared or have they not? If they don't, apologize to all those people you've called. And it's not too hard to do. But if such things have been done, all this must go to justice. And from there on, justice can judge who must be prosecuted and who is not. What scares you? What makes you keep each other in order not to hear the truth? The point is, it scares you that you're all guilty. Forty-five years, all the parties you were in the Greek Parliament looted our country, the Greek citizen, the Greek taxpayer. We are talking about hundreds of millions of euros as if nothing were happening: 15 million, says New Democracy, 195 million PASOK. In fact, they are now judging us and coming to tell us that they will also give us solutions to how to save the country and how to save the whole system that exists. What can you save? What can you save, you poor bastards? This is where you owe everyone who speaks Greek. This is where you owe us, and you're working with us that with a brick and a pen you'll pay off the 220 million. This is where you're all working, and so far you've all worked for the Greek people. Fortunately, however, a large part of the Greek people are slowly awakening. And it wakes up through the presence of the Golden Dawn. And here, too, to stress something, so people know it and learn it. Everyone before I heard you say and blame the New Democracy SYRIZA, the New Democracy of PASOK, the PASOK - we say now, there was no charge for the KKE - that the money has disappeared from everyone, that you have taken it and how you have taken it, in what way. For a party, it didn't sound like it's taken money for the Golden Dawn. You can't say that with anything. Golden Dawn's got nothing. She hasn't even got what she's got. In an editorial and anti-democratic way, you democrats have banned the only party that does not owe party funding. The only party he doesn't owe! While all the rest of you thieves who have disappeared, you continue to share the money. This is what you would like from the Golden Dawn, to have been in the same context as you, to hide the truth from the Greek taxpayer, to make fun of him, so that he can get his loans and no one can tell her anything. Then we'd be good! Then we'd be democrats! Then we would be peaceful and good citizens! But we prefer not to be democrats, as you say this term and as you have really humiliated it, in and out of the Greek Parliament. So here the question arises: Why did SYRIZA do this examination? And after he did, why does he acquit all the others? Because here with what he did, he actually gave forgiveness of sins. He cleared up both the New Democracy and the PASOK and the previous ones. He literally gave them forgiveness of sins. Why? Because SYRIZA represents the same bare establishment. Because SYRIZA takes orders from international and European chief loan sharks. And the command given is to try, by all means, in all ways, all screwed up, not to give the last kick to this bare system, which really collapses and collapses daily. The Greek citizen, as our Chief has quite rightly said a moment ago, considers all Greek MP thieves and crooks. And you are trying in any way to keep this system, to keep it wholehearted, the system that has devastated our country, the system that has brought about a violent change of population within the Greek society, this system which is completely indifferent and is not at all interested in the problems of the middle Greek citizen, but is supposedly being cut down humanitarianly for the problems of all illegal immigrants who have flooded the borders of our country. And because names were not heard by anyone - after nine - ten months of examination, there are no names for any of you, only the Golden Dawn mentioned names - so we will tell you again - rather once again, because the previous day Elias Cassiri did not succeed in ending and saying what had to be done. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Here there is a rotten system consisting of the channels, the grandchildren and the big banks. The channels, the big business, the big businessmen took hundreds of millions of euros from the banks to cover the political scandals that occurred in our homeland to alter thought and opinion...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u330	Just a minute, Mr. Rabbit, I'll leave you some extra time. You've already talked extra.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u331	...and guide the Greek citizen to other things rather than what really happened to him and which ruined his life. So the big-fashioned ones took the millions. The big banks gave these millions, of course, to ensure that this money will never be lost, they will never pay from their pockets. However, when we were driven to the memorials that you put on us, everyone here knew that with the recapitalisations of the banks paid by the Greek citizen, the Greek taxpayer, this money that the big bankers gave to the big bankers would take again and take it back through the Greek taxpayer, the one you have done what you want, you have humiliated him. So, then, the big parties and the parties were in the Greek Parliament forty - five years ate, drinking in the health of the sucker, who was the Greek people. That's the reality. Golden Dawn, therefore, requires the setting-up of a committee of inquiry that will be held and will be discussed in connection with the execution of the criminal offence of the moral automobile in infidelity for all Prime Ministers from Costas Simitis and then, for Costas Simitis, for Kostas Karamanlis, for George Papandreou, for Luke Papademos, for Antonis Samaras and for the current Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras - you see that we are talking with names - as well as with the finance ministers of all these governments. There should be a committee of inquiry and there we should see how many will be persecuted and how many will be accountable to Greek justice. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] But you democrats are shaking Greek justice...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u332	You're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u333	...scared, look to manipulate it, look to check it out, and when you have any issue, to show that you're different from each other and to go...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u334	You're done, Mr. Rabbit.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u335	We're done! You're done, Mr. Voutsi, and you haven't gotten it. We're starting now. Well, we're done right now. I will only say one scandal that has once again been done and which has also been mentioned by our Chief. Right now there's a protest outside the faithful...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u336	Are you still going on now? Excuse me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u337	Wait a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u338	What a minute? You want me to say what happened outside?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u339	What happened outside?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u340	What you're going to say now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u341	I'll say it. You want to say that? Will you invite them to come?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u342	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u343	Call people to come, because we'll invite people to come, because for the first time...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u344	Those who have to do their job out are doing it at the moment. They stopped having a violent entry into the parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u345	What did they do?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u346	What you're listening to. As for Greek justice, because you said who trembles her individually and collectively, please very much...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u347	From the monks? That's who you were. Fear the abbot and the monks and not the punk para-states who burn the truth. This is the SYRIZA government and will be humiliated.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u348	Well done, all right.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u349	Fear Orthodoxy, Church and Christianity.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u350	Good!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u351	Fear the Golden Dawn and the Greek nationalists. Screw the hoodmen of the Exarchates!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u352	All right, all right. However, I am telling you that who is shaking Greek justice and who are before justice...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u353	You know how we got in. Baltako you heard him, Samaras you heard him.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u354	Thank you very much. Come on, Mrs. Kozobol, you have the floor. For the outside, Mr President, Commissioner, Mr Michalolico, I would ask you to take the blame, because we almost had serious problems.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u355	I don't know.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u356	You don't know them. I'm telling you, Headquarters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u357	That's why we're supposed to be shaking, you know what?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u358	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u359	You say so.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u360	No, but I heard it before all of them...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u361	Do you get any calls...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u362	Excuse me very much, but you are before Greek justice. Your Member's reference to all others - MPs, political leaders and Prime Ministers - is that he must tremble justice not beyond the deliberate but also within the limits of reason.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u363	I think I mentioned earlier that the law on the liability of Ministers has no reason to be afraid, as it has been planned. But you are two years of government and you have done nothing about the law on the responsibility of Ministers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u364	Now, do not talk about this and about the constitutional review and the specific article, which all parties have put their minds on and are well aware of.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u365	I, however, proposed a solution for the second time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u366	Okay, it's noted.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u367	Be well.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u368	Be well. Please, Mrs. Kozobol, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u369	Thank you, Mr President. The damages of the Greek banks were covered by constant recapitalisations made with the Greek State's money, which the Greek State did not have and were added to the public debt, the debt that was made unthinkable and the repayment of our country has been imprisoned. However, this is not the reason why the House unanimously instructed the committee of inquiry to investigate the lending of parties and the media. EUR 1.3 billion of the loans of the media companies, half of which is insecure on average, and EUR 420 million are indebted, borrowed and unhardened to the former two major parties in New Democracy and PASOK, without being negligible, are a small part of the total lending of enterprises. However, it is not a quantitative matter but a qualitative one. The reason for setting up the Committee of Inquiry and the investigation into what has been called on to investigate is the direct link between parties and journalistic organizations and democracy. The media have a huge power to influence the will and opinion of the people and ultimately to influence and control political developments. In a democratic society in which institutions function and laws are implemented, the media should belong to entities operating in full transparency of their finances, as well as to their links. But that is not the case. The majority of the media belong to entrepreneurs who are interconnected with the banks and with the political system have gained enormous power and have led to information and information on decline and dismantling. In this context, I should like to point out that the Commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to biological agents at work is a very important one. The parties have made luxurious campaigns with brilliant brochures, moves of voters, a television time market - and not just - in order to manipulate public opinion, directly undermining this very democracy. That is why this investigation was commissioned to the Committee of Inquiry. Parliament's decision may have been unanimous, but it is certain that some have made the need for politeness and voted for, because the first time the undermining of this committee began. At first, the appointment of experts was requested. Then they became advocates of the canalarchs and bank advisors. PASOK's colleague asked the bank's CEOs: 'Did anyone call you and ask you to facilitate the lending of these channels?' ‘No’ was answered by the CEO. He continued to ask: "Would you not lend this particular media company, take out the tube and get the workers fired?" ‘Yes’ was answered by the bank representative. That is the case, the New Democracy MPs asked. Both of them, of course, want not to see that systematic media lending was not intended to maintain workers' jobs. We have dozens of examples, such as the case of Mr Stavros Psych. In 2005 it borrowed EUR 50 million only to buy shares in the DOL. The EUR 50 million had to be repaid in two years. In 2009, four years later, there was a balance of 40m euros. Each candidate borrower may not be re borrowed if he had not repaid his former loan. It did not happen, however, in this particular case. In 2009, Mr Stavros Psykris, while he owes 40m euros that he would have to pay for three years already, takes back EUR 14,800,000 to buy the remaining shares of the DOL. It did not take it to keep the positions of certain workers, but to increase the share capital that was a condition of lending. I mean, he borrowed to make a capital increase in order to borrow. Analytical is the lending of the companies "CORDER THEMA", "ANATYXIAKI" and "NEO THEMA", which bought each other by lending immediately after its establishment. The money, of course, went into the shareholder's pockets. And after the defence operation fell into the void, after becoming a laughing stock of the world attending the meetings of the committee, another tactic was adopted by the New Democracy and by the PASOK of SYRIZA. They have their nest in search of stains to others. They say: "In "AGE" participates, in its capital, an offshore company." They conceal that "AGEY" - the subject we are investigating, media lending - has a fully served, by capital and interest, loan of EUR 912,000, has transferred the release of the newspaper "AGEY" and the release of the newspaper "HAYSIS OF CYRIAN". There is not even one delay in this lending. They forget that this offshore, which is being formulated, is a company in a European Union country. Let me remind you that offshore companies say those offshore companies that serve a particular purpose, go to countries that have tax regimes that favour low profit tax, etc. So here we have a particular company in Cyprus, in a European Union country, which has a specific name and registered office.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u370	Whose is it? What's his name?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u371	The company has a name and surname. It says who's the company, Mr. Metarakis. And what are we talking about? We are talking about 2.5% of the capital, which is EUR 53,800. That's the big scandal, sir, that you found! You didn't hurt anything else than you saw! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, just give me a minute to finish because a lot has been said.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u372	You have two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u373	Thank you, Mr President. SYRIZA has a full loan with specific guarantees to grants, not for long periods, for example, ten years, as the other parties did. And they're accusing that this loan isn't all right. The presumption of what? He wrote a letter to Alexis Tsipras and said: I am a borrower for twenty years at the National Bank and you know I'm a good borrower. That's what he writes anyway. In any case, in order to make the offence of infidelity, it must be granted favourable treatment. What favourable treatment did SYRIZA get with a loan fully served? Not only with the grants, but with the building of Koumoundouros it has become a big one - but a great one! - falsification of reality. They are in the business of truth, which they are really perverting too much. They say, then, that the building of Koumoundouros was bored with the debt of once EAP and then the coalition. Listen, gentlemen. If the pact of truth surrounding it requires the distortion of everything and the abuse of the truth, do not play with your political citizen. Although it is evoking the specific question of the committee's investigation, because we decided to look after the euro after 2000, I must tell you that in 1990 the Greek Left with representatives of Leonidas Kourkos and Fotis Kouvelis took a loan of 115 million drachmas and bought the building of Koumoundouros. From this price, 35 million were paid in cash at the time with the purchase and 80 million were credited and paid with an equivalent loan from the then Ionian and People's Bank. In 1992, EAP was self-determination and integrated into the Coalition and became a single party. In 1996, this loan of 80 million drachmas was not served and three barren auctions were made. The then president of the Coalition Nikos Konstantopoulos was called upon to serve the loan, paying 175 million drachmas. The 175 million drachmas have been paid off, i.e. two and a half times the capital. Tell me, do you know what's going to say haircut, Mr. Matearakis and Mr. Voridis, what you were saying before? If you want, pay you two and a half times your capital, which is EUR 130 million, and then come and say 'all'.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u374	Thank you, my colleague. Make a close.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u375	It's 130m euros your capital. Pay your capital twice and come and talk to us about haircuts.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u376	Please hang up, Mrs. Kozobol. You're late!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u377	What can I say? They're not said! Finally, Mr President, I will only say this. What the Committee of Inquiry found was indeed creepy and indeed shocking. Of course, suspicious citizens knew a little - very much. However, we have seen the documentation of these revelations. That's what the committee of inquiry did. However, what has personally caused me great shock and awe is that both parties that once ruled this country did not see and hear nothing. One party talked about 'coal the treasure' and the other about SYRIZA - ANEL. It's disgraceful, gentlemen! That's all I can say. Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u378	Thank you very much. The President of the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR Mr Gennimata. Mr Stamatis has the floor, and then the Minister, Mr Papafelopoulou, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u379	Ladies and gentlemen, in 2017 the world seems to be turning backwards. The clouds are densing above us, Greece is intertwined in the intensive, and today we are talking at the level of political leaders with the responsibility of the SYRIZA - ANEL for "KERYKA KANI" and "AGE". And citizens are still waiting for a credible exit plan from the crisis. And I ask: What is the plan that has been implemented over the last two years and can ensure the country's position in this environment, which is becoming increasingly dangerous to us? In January 2015, Mr Tsipras began to change Europe. And Europe has changed. Desert, of course. And it changed to the worst. Today, Euroscepticism is dominating. National egoism is growing, extreme right is scoring, and the value of human life constantly retreats, something that refugees live every day. The new president of the United States builds nationalistic walls. He believes he is not bound by his NATO membership to provide assistance. It finds Brexit excellent and wants the European Union to collapse. International relationships are turning against us. The Turkish provocation is dismantling and the government is stirring awkwardly with the European Union not taking any initiative to support international conditions and its own borders. In 2017, ladies and gentlemen, it will not be the same as the 2010-2016 period. And I stress this, because in 2010 the international situation allowed support for the country and assistance from both Europe and the international community, even on painful terms. In 2017, in this unstable and unfavourable international environment, the government has left the country unprotected and hostage. The country has the worst government in the world in the world. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] This is a government that is constantly hitting each other at all levels. The "cash" third memorandum of the SYRIZA Government - ANEL has turned all the emergency arrangements into a permanent comitology, a permanent cutter. What should I refer to first? The supreme control of state property has ninety-nine years of life. And I wonder, which one of us will finally live to see it? Our children definitely don't! Our grandchildren and grandsons may have a hope to expect that they will live in a country where public property will not be in foreign hands. And don't get tired of telling us about the pitiful results you had on the debt issue, because you dismissed what the 2012 Eurogroup decision provided for, very consciously. The 2012 Eurogroup decision provided for specific objectives and further assistance from our partners so that in 2022 the ratio of debt to GDP is significantly less than 110%. The so-called tough negotiation has disastrous consequences for the real economy and the purchasing power of the citizens. It is burning, ladies and gentlemen, and the last fat. The deposits have taken a new downhill orbit. Primarily submerged in the chest economies are depriving. The income does not fill the household basket and does not cover family needs. And the move on the market, which in 2014 cowards - cowards had recovered, unfortunately today breaks one negative record after another. The selective recruitment of SYRIZA - ANEL obviously does not increase demand and do not put money on the market, but increases the maintenance costs of the state, inflating tax burdens for citizens. With the banks castrated, any sound corporate and business operations are now done with the drop-off. And your Minister himself just appeared yesterday and admitted that 70% of the commitments you have made to close the evaluation has not been implemented. Who are you laughing at all this time? The exit of the country into the markets in 2018 seems to be a fraudulent dream and the dreadful development of the need for a new support programme, a fourth memorandum, is more than possible. The worst of all, however, is that today you are chaining the country with economic objectives that are unbearable and socially unbearable. And are you, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA - ANEL, in a dangerous dilemma: GREXIT or permanent austerity? You, with your policy, but also with statements from your officials, carry water in the mill of the most conservative circles in Europe that are working out of the Eurozone. Now are you playing Shoeble's game for GREXIT, Mr. Tsipras? You started as a so-called revolutionary and became submissive. Now you're accomplices too? Do you have to give answers here and now, do you have another plan for the country? Ladies and gentlemen, I do not claim that the question of financing the media and parties is not important. The opposite is true. It concerns the quality of democracy, the protection of the public interest and it gives a very strong symbolism, which is of interest to all citizens who are watching us. But the government's majority is not interested in this approach. They're only interested in setting up an indictment. The proposal for a joint finding and understanding of the institutional changes that need to be made and the initiatives that we need to take to cure chronic diseases has fallen void. Can someone answer us why? And if you cannot answer this crucial question, at least answer the complaints of the Member of the Independent Greeks, Mr. Dimitris Kammenos that the Commission's finding, the majority, was altered, obviously, because you refused to have a common finding. We are not going to follow you on this slippery path, because it gives rise to the prestige of institutions and democracy itself. We call on you, even at the very last moment, to proceed with a substantial debate today on the basis of the proposals tabled by our Parliamentary spokesman Andreas Loverdos in the necessarily separate conclusion that we have tabled as a Democratic Incorporation. But, unfortunately, as far as I understand it, you don't care about that at all. And that is the result of your party finding, too clearly. Your goal is to keep the myth of the so-called young man alive against the so-called old one. That's your agony. You did not hesitate to alter for this purpose and the testimony of Nikos Salayannis, but, unfortunately, it exists in the Minutes and is recorded. I present the letter sent to the President of Parliament, because what happened with the finding is a pure forgery and it is really disgraceful of what you have done.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u380	Tell us what he said and what we differentiated.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u381	It is in detail all written in Mr Salayannis's letter to the President of Parliament and will be in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u382	Let's hear it, Mrs. Gennamas, let's give you a reply.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u383	You had nothing but to hear what he said in committee. Always, when things are rusting about your Government, you resort to the familiar field for you, the battle against interlocutory. How many times have you asked us, and threateningly, to discuss corruption? Do You Remember? We have always told you 'yes', to see and to face up to the problems of interlocutory and corruption. What are you waiting for? Get out and beat it, whether it's the media, whether it's the public administration or the private economy. But, what have you done all this time? And why this recurring show here in the House? The truth is that on the forefront of corruption you have done absolutely nothing, Mr. Tsipras. Talking a lot, act no one. On the contrary, Greece has, on your day, retreated eleven whole positions in the global measurement of corruption. You embraced corruption, that's the truth. You were struggling to build the "SYRIZA Channel" with the courtesy of "SYRIZA Bank" and with guarantees of some pastures in Ithaca of highly indebted businessmen. And you continued with so-called documentary against your political opponents in the yellow press, in yellow literature. You did not hesitate, to place a "couple" in a particular band, so that you can check it out. You are the government of paid trolls and propaganda. So you'll stay in history, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA - ANEL. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] You have presented a massive finding, unconnected, inaccurate and misinterpretations, with recent defects and dictates of the last minute and some very important shortcomings, very convenient but also suspected convenient deficiencies. The SYRIZA MPs have forgotten to inform the House that all political parties were lending exactly the same way, with the same guarantee, granting state funding. On the five hundred pages of his poem, SYRIZA found no room to write about when the Prime Minister himself, as Head of SYRIZA, asked with his personal letter the bank lending of his party, with political and not banking criteria. So what did he do? In short, he invoked, not state funding, but the percentages he expected to take his party, according to polls. They failed to mention that the only informative tool they asked for and used political intervention to regulate a loan is "AGEI", using a special letter of facilitation to SYRIZA, that SYRIZA is the only party that, as a united Left, then has benefited from a brave haircut of about 60% of the bank debts. The only truth behind the splendid titles and the very big words about the examination is that, despite methodological and alterations, the Committee of Inquiry did not give any criminal responsibility. The treasure's carbon. No matter how hard you searched, no matter how hard you dug deep, no matter how much you were drunk, no matter what your construction failed and you finally saw your own laundry coming out at the forum. Congratulations! Ladies and gentlemen, it is time for everything to be said by their name. The government tried to target the forty-five years of postpopulation as a whole. He tried to convince Greek women and Greeks that what they lived in the most creative, most productive period of Greek history was a virtual reality, that they were not entitled to them or that they did not. To forget, in other words, the citizens' democratic conquests of so many years, their rights and their struggles for a better life. For Mr. Tsipras the governments in the years of post-multiplatification were not an option with the vote of the Greek people. This is trying to convince us, that it was the result of interlocutory and corruption, the product and result of the triangle political parties, banks and the media. There were no, according to the same, people's movement, no national objectives, no attempts and no popular conquests. Listen, this is a conscious, dangerous, iso-destructive distortion of history, which reminds us of dirty '89 and strengthens only the circles that want black periods. Only these are the ones who serve with this attitude. What about all this? All this, in order to justify Mr Tsipras for his weaknesses and to facilitate the promotion of authoritarian and institutional perceptions. But these dangerous claims are now falling apart. Red loans to the media are less than 1% of all red loans. And the red media loans are only 37% of the media loans. Of course, I must stress that they have a prominent position in the means which fully support the current government and backed them up in the previous period.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u384	Do we have one of those? What are these?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u385	Please, no questions underneath. Stop it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u386	Listen, ladies and gentlemen, and understand it well: Our movement, the PASOK, has expressed popular claims for too many years. They did not bring it in and supported neither the interests nor the means. The Greek people brought it. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Whether you like it or not, that is the reality, as an expression of a source of need for a better tomorrow. A parade that is identical to the brightest and most creative period for our country, with the great conquests of our people. And through the people every day the democratic party is reborn again, now that the lies and populism that has brought you to power are broken. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Enough about the counterfeiting of history. You do not have the right, especially you of this government, to break the democratic acquis of so many decades. And surely, it is no coincidence that the right circles of this kind are also leading, especially those that have been identified with the devastating New Democracy rule from 2004 to 2009, people who are accountable to history and nation, circles who, of course, have a representative within the SYRIZA - ANEL Government itself who care that no control is carried out and nothing is being investigated for that period. But we all know how the debt was ejected, how the 35 billion-dollar deficit was created and how the country was forced to enter the memorandum one-way, when the real leaders were throwing stones out of the House. And because I hear these days, it is very hard for some to try to lay the PASOK debt burdens, behold, Rhodes, ladies and gentlemen, both SYRIZA and ANEL and the New Democracy: I repeat our proposal for a Committee of Inquiry into the economy, to investigate the responsibilities of all of us from the day the country entered the euro until today. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Ladies and gentlemen, we must, however, all admit that there have been poor texts throughout the entire period, which we must recognise and have sincereness, the courage to see that institutional changes do not take place in the future. First of all, with a great sense of responsibility, we recognized it. Yes, there has been the period of waste, of over-loans, of easy loans, of life models, which did not correspond to our real potential. This has also happened in the political parties, with the expensive campaigns, with the great operating costs, with the expensive campaigns, with the exact movements of the hetero-democrats. Public life passions, which have drawn parties into over-lending, rather than limiting their costs then. But these have already changed. And they have changed, because we have dared, with our own legislative initiatives, to have new strict rules on electoral expenditure. We, too, firstly took and made dramatic decisions on our finances. In a systematic and painful way, we have housed our house. We have reduced our operating expenses, and so have we. It is characteristic that in the 2014 European elections we spent some 285 thousand euros, while SYRIZA had the luxury of spending 1.3 million. They were the same sizes as in the next elections, elections in which one cannot say that the PASOK was supported by the means with which we are complaining that we are spreading. On the other hand, I must say that we have had them aggressively toward us. PASOK is the only - and I stress it - political party from a recommendation from the Greek state, which has attempted such profound control over its finances and financial management. We didn't hide anything, we pay...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u387	Pay... (It didn't hear.)
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u388	Don't give up on that. Enough with the crowns. Learn to listen to and respect the leaders of the other parties.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u389	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u390	Because only by respect for each other can we build the national understanding necessary for this place. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Stop this practice at last. We didn't hide anything. And we didn't hide anything, because we're afraid of nothing. And we didn't do that either denouncing or prosecuting. Some people were raped to say that it was for that reason, for small-scale benefits. With this perception, the country is constantly being lost and this perception is taking the lead everywhere. We did it by looking into the future. Because in PASOK, we don't close our eyes to problems and mistakes. We learn from them and become better. We're dealing with them and we're fixing them. That is why we, only from all parties, have entrusted the largest companies of sworn auditors to do the checks, to see what went wrong, what we need to correct, what we need to do from now on. And we've caused you too many times, but you keep doing what you don't hear, you don't understand what we're telling you. First, do these checks on your finances and then come here and talk again. The event has been at the disposal of Greek justice for many months since he asked us to do so. In this investigation, there is nothing to add to neither Parliament nor anyone else. Your lyric effort to hit PASOK and drugize the return of the great democratic party falls on the rocks. Those on the right and on the left think they can create breaches in our attempt to reconstruct the space and the big centre-left. Don't get tired. Gentlemen of government, stop poisoning public life. Stop the subtle toys. You misled the Greek people once to rise to power. And what are you doing now? You come to a people tired, a people desperate and disappointed, who pays your own policies and your own measures, and you are trying to present the evil and the dragon again, with the sole aim of keeping your positions in power for a moment more. But the dragon and your fairy tales no longer convince anyone and are looking for a new threat to the new evil, why 'what will you become without barbarians'? You have nothing more to say to the Greek people. But that's not about anyone. They've all gotten you news. And the condemnation of the Greek people will be very hard when it falls upon you. Finally, understand this: Since '74 Greece has finally left behind the split shapes, divisions and certificates of social and political attitudes. With the seal of PASOK, Andreas Papandreou and the genuinely great democratic party, Greece of Postmultimatisation has finally achieved national reconciliation. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] He created the foundations for unity and unity. He indulged isology. Free access to knowledge, public health and insurance has been strengthened and free access to insurance has been achieved. There have been conditions of prosperity and fair development, the rule of law and the social state. All this isn't history figures. They are deep experiences that the Greek people know about because they lived them. All of this was done with strong and clear commands from the Greek people and did not rely on any of the media. Take that decision. There was a people's movement, and that was the results. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] No new order of things and no new Migration can erase them. His conquests of yesterday will also set tomorrow's demands for democracy, transparency and justice. You have proved throughout this period that you neither want nor can guarantee it, so the sooner you leave, the better for the place. The solution, of course, is not in the tradition of Mr Shoeble's extreme demands or of the right-wing rectification. In Greece 2017, it is not worth a new national disaster, because the two so-called big parties cannot overcome their souls, on the one hand with populism and imperialism and on the other hand with market immunity. Mostly, however, what they cannot overcome is their inappropriate thirst for power. That's why they're blocking national understanding. But it is time for another policy with national understanding, with a national line of exit from the crisis and the memos. National understanding begins as a necessary, but it is founded on a joint project, a task for a joint effort, which will be based on a project, which I dare today call it the "project of Greece", an agreement of our own on the reconstruction of the country. This work alone can prevent a new division as a result of a national defeat. This development, the democratic party, is obliged to prevent it. He's got a history debt to do it. As I have said on several occasions, the country needs a government of national consensus, broad parliamentary support, with another Prime Minister, with faces of common acceptance. It is clear, however, that SYRIZA and New Democracy do not want it and the political connections they have today do not allow them to impose their will. But that will be done, ladies and gentlemen. It will take place shortly after the next election. That is why we are calling for the power of the Greek people, because a Democratic Reconciliation will force it to be imposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u391	Mr. Dimitrios Stamattis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u392	Ladies and gentlemen, while listening throughout the debate in this House to SYRIZA's fellow speakers who participated in the Committee of Inquiry, I wondered: What they were saying was, what did they have to do with the finding they ended up in? And just to say, have they read the final finding they filed in the House? Because it has nothing to do with all the rest of the things they said here. What, ladies and gentlemen, was the question that the committee of inquiry had to answer? One was: If the parties, taking advantage of their dominant position in the political and economic life of the country, put pressure on the banks themselves to get illegal loans and to mediate, suffocating the banks again to grant illegal loans to the media. A link is needed for the crisis of all the issues that have arisen was one: political intervention, to substantiate your own political account of the "triangle of interlocutory". And that collapsed. You have, of course, taken care - because you do not have the political courage, you are hiding - to draw the final conclusion of modestly in three archipelagos. That's what your finding says! And I ask now: we have had a luxurious process, essentially pre-interrogative, which no interrogator has ever met. A large number of employees, collaborators, obvious and missing were used. Thousands of documents were examined - one document room - and dozens of witnesses were produced. Many times, and this procedure was completely unprotected, insulting, I would say, and pressing at the expense of the witnesses. What was the result? The finding that on the question of the House, the majority of the SYRIZA itself replied that no political intervention by any political person was found either on their own party loans or on the media loans. And because you could not hide what the entire Greek people have seen, you are now resorting, on the one hand, to a wording that does not stand anywhere, as regards the reasoning of your decision and, on the other hand, to a very large proposal: to go the file to the Public Prosecutor of the Ice Bay. We have to clarify something here, Mr Balomennakis. Did we refuse the file to go to the Arena Ice? You're lying! I'm telling you, you're lying.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u393	I'm not lying at all. PUBLIC STANDARD: There are the Minutes...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u394	Say it now. You should tell him to go now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u395	As I said, we have no objections, because the trouble of control will be found by you. We have no objection, but I said that the committee is not entitled to take it to the prosecutor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u396	We voted and you said no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u397	Why did you refuse?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u398	And because the President of Parliament is here, I direct him with the question: did the committee of inquiry, Mr President, have the right by itself to send the file to the public prosecutor or have to pass it through the House? Ask the President. We have told you: do not do this, do not say such things, because you will put the President of Parliament into trouble. But you're addicted to lying. It's become your second nature.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u399	Today, what are you talking about? What's your position?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u400	From there on, ladies and gentlemen, there is another issue here.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u401	Please, be quiet. Now these questions are rhetorical, from anyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u402	If he doesn't answer what they're gonna do.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u403	They're not rhetorical at all. Tell us: We, as a committee, had the right to do so?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u404	Mr. Stopatis, I'm telling you they were right. We are in plenary now and can be discussed. They had, they have the right.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u405	After you asked the president, he told you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u406	Mr President, they have no right, but in any case.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u407	They have a right, but we are now talking in plenary. The debate has matured, we have been through this stage. Excuse me for the interruption, Mr. Stamatis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u408	We didn't have any delusions. For either the Committee of Inquiry decides either the House, the majority is. We had no such problem. But here a huge issue arises. When after a nine-month exhaustive procedure, with hundreds of hours of intensive work, you who searched for everything, used every instrument that you had at your disposal, did not reach a conclusion and said "we can't see anything", it cumulatively has two versions. The first version is you didn't find anything. The second version is 'to entrust it to the prosecutor, to justify why we made such a noise'. And I ask: were the SYRIZA colleagues, many of whom are law-abiding, unable, after nine months, to find out the truth and need to be addressed to the prosecutor? Are you incompetent, ladies and gentlemen? I don't think so. But why did you accept such personal humiliation? To enable your Chief to be justified for creating such a huge issue without having any evidence at all. The New Democracy has nothing to fear, and it is not even afraid to make a comparison of behaviour. New Democracy is the party that, as a government, put her fingers in her eyes and pulled them out. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] It cut off the state grant over 50% and then Prime Minister Samaras brought the leader of his party - who was himself - and his party, in a difficult position, because that imposed the national interest. Also, the New Democracy, having all the loans to the Agricultural Bank, did not only press for an illegal loan, but suffered oppressive behaviour. While the Agricultural Bank had almost all of its loans, it unilaterally decided and quadrupled interest rates. I ask: which borrower would agree to quadruple borrowing rates? And for your curiosity to leave, at the time New Democracy took the loans, it could pay back in four years. But - I say it quickly, Mr President - you people who have asked for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u409	Please complete. I'll give you one more minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u410	...with your Chief, by letter, exceptionally granting loans, beyond the laws, to speak? Is there a similar letter from another party? But, because a lot has been heard, I will end up in two, because I don't have time. One theme was raised Someone took shares of "SUBJECT". It's not offshore. He who took the shares used a trusted company in Cyprus. Today you come and say 'this company took them'. You're lying. The company took them on behalf of a natural or legal person. So say who the natural or legal person is! Are you embarrassed? Who is it? Ruham? Why don't you say? So he could take the shares of "AGE", your party organ, anyone? Didn't you check it out? Are you naive? Oh, no! You're dangerous! You must therefore, here, tell us who is behind the company that bought the shares of "AGEI". And the second...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u411	Thank you very much, Mr Stamatis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u412	Wait a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u413	No, there's no second. The first thing you've exhausted all of it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u414	I'll be done in a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u415	But when he gets every congressman...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u416	Don't interrupt me, Mr. President, and you too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u417	What should I interrupt? Three times you asked me...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u418	I will come to another point and finish, Mr President. There is another problem here. Is there a complication? Yes, there is a complication that you revealed with your behavior. Mr. Kalogritsas is well known to the young children in Greece that he maintains excellent relations with you, that you have done everything, to get some media, that Mr. Kalogritsas, despite his debts, debts, misdeeds and criminal offences by tax, took about 100 million euros over your days. It's the one you were meant to make TV or issue a form. You put pressure on a regional bank, the Attica Bank, to give Mr. Kalogrica a loan so that you could obtain a loan. So you have no right to be honorers. You're apologizing and accused!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u419	Thank you. Mr Dimitrios Papagelopoulos has the floor for the Deputy Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights. Then there is Mr. Christoforos Papadopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u420	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u421	Look, I'm making a great effort to keep the process. Whoever understands, understands. Okay? Because we're leaving time. I did not want to go through the process of cutting off the Members and the circles of speakers who had been given by the parties. Because there are exceptional pressures being exerted either by parliamentary representatives or by Heads of State or Government. to keep some other time, which they had in mind. Let by my presence go a process as best we can. I don't go into details. Mr. Papagelopoulos, please have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u422	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, before I say anything else, I have to answer Mrs Gennamas, the President of PASOK, about what she said about the Amnesty International Annual Report for 2016. If one reads the report carefully, one realizes that it is about the subjective measurement of the perception of corruption and not the actual size of corruption. And I explain: based on the research methodology, the recent discovery of great scandals of yesterday has had a negative impact on the country's score, since it shows the existence of corrupt systems of the past, which have so far been governed by the current government, the corrupt systems have been living in the shadow, and the responsible ones have been unavoidable. This is in response to what Mrs Gennamas said, which I must note that every time in her speech she refers directly or indirectly to me. She must be very disturbed by my presence in the government. Ladies and gentlemen, some very simple but at the same time very important questions need to be answered today. The answers given will not only draw useful conclusions but will also be judged on the credibility of the political system and, above all, on those who answer these questions. From evasive and hypocritical screams in favour of transparency, the Greek people have been filled. And in order not to get far, tonight the National Representation must answer the following questions: have banks given EUR 1,400,000 to the media and 400,000 to the parties? Who exactly took these loans? Who did they give it to? Have there been guarantees or air alone, and as our people rightly say, unleashed? What did those who took them? Will they return them and when? In this century, to the next or the next? This money does not belong to the bankers, it belongs to the Greek people, who ultimately pays the broken bills. Ladies and gentlemen, the fair - I am not saying 'a party', because I prefer to express myself in Greek - is over! But now that I think of it, I should say a Roman orgy and not a festival, because the festival is about pure popular entertainment, while the people do not participate in orgy, but a few corrupt representatives of the ruling class, which did not just entertain, but was served in all kinds of humiliation and disobedience. Now, however, every kind of orgy has ended definitively. Now we need to clean the space out of the ruins and rubbish that left behind them and rebuild our land to which the afflicted cowards of wrath have been so bad for so many years. Unfortunately, for the current government, but fortunately for the country, the role of cleansing and exorcism...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u423	A little quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u424	I repeat: Sadly, for the current government, but fortunately for the country, the role of cleansing and banging was assigned by the Greek people to people who had no involvement in the misery of the past. The more hands, however, involved in restoring cleanliness and fierceness, the more rapid and good results we will have. So we must take this opportunity and put a hand in the cleansing and decoration of our country. We must not forget that loans to the media, apart from their criminal dimension, have a political dimension which, in my view, is much worse. The money for the loans - credit and fierce, as it turns out today - to the media is not just a crime, such as the misappropriation of public money, by those who have been ignited and unfaithful, by the bankers who have provided the'sea fairs', but also the destabilisation of democracy. These sinful loans were artificially maintained in the life of the media, which took the lead in scandalology at the expense of elected governments and which asymmetrically prophesied the Memorandums. I have already referred to the para-state of inter-stateism and its methods, with the media in particular in the past. I won't tire you by repeating the same thing. I will only confine myself to putting two - three rhetoric questions. Who designed and implemented the dirty '89', as Mrs Gennimata called it before? Who and how did they throw down the Prime Minister's government, which said for the first time - and it has since been established - 'complex'? Did the pimps in the country, as another Prime Minister has dared, for the first time, to describe them properly and denounce them? How many politicians have not been targeted by pimps in order to either neutralize or compromise with them? How many of you in here have not been victims of this blackmailing tactic? Well, I was. They ignored me, however, that one of my favorite heroes in history is the French colonel Cambron, who, when the French army broke down and fled, remained in the battlefield, and when he was begged, almost the head of the rival forces surrendered, responded with a word that I would not say Greek or French, so that some would not find an opportunity to call me inappropriate or disrespectful. But the word was of great importance at that time. I am pleased to be tempted, with my great pleasure, to refresh the memory of the old and inform the younger ones that there was a signed article - complaint of a serious man, a successful entrepreneur, on the first page of the newspaper "DISTANT TYPE" many years ago, entitled "The Missa". And this newspaper didn't belong to the Left. So who did he mean? I know, but I'm not gonna say it, 'cause I never get used to hitting down. Instead, I give my hand to help them get up. Ladies and gentlemen, I am not ashamed to repeat that I am inexperienced in politics. But it looks like I'm fast learning. So I learned by observing experienced opposition politicians trying to hit the government by waving and invoking reports that are hostile to the government and that are friendly to the opposition of newspapers. So I decided to play this game myself. But because I don't like set-up games, I'll play more clearly and make it harder for me to get more interested. I will, from now on, mostly invoke newspapers belonging to the right. I read on Monday, January 30th, in the newspaper "Dimouratias", which we all know where it belongs, an article by Mrs. Yiannis Filippiaki's editor, entitled "What Stavros Psycharis forgot to say about the end of the Doll". I present the report on the Minutes and refer to it as an answer to those who falsely claim that the Government seeks to close the DOL or its control. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister, Dimitrios Papagelopoulos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I also call it in response to those who try or try to blackmail the bankers for the benefit of this issuer, using justice as a threat. At this point I would like to assure you that the government will not take a step back in the fight against the conflict. It is true that the author, Manolis Kotakis - I will call him - who has been the director of the historical newspaper 'ESTIA', in his article in the newspaper 'DIMMOCRATIA' again - is not pro-government, I repeat - that Tsipras has been plunging the point, the system of the climax that has led the place to bankruptcy, which has been a popular demand since 2004. I'm not saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a unique opportunity now that the complication is blowing away the mists. She's rotted out of her crimes. He's lost both nails and teeth. He can't bite or scratch. And it has been denounced in the conscience of the Greek people. Healthy political forces - I appeal - to unite and give her the graceful shot. What do I mean? Ladies and gentlemen, we must ensure, with the greatest possible consensus, that the institutional framework, which will enable the sound media to carry out the task of informing citizens without sea-loving dependencies, with air guarantees, suspicious advertising funding and other silent sponsorships. Yusufs, caracoles and Velegaces should be confined to their role in the theatre of shadow, in which they had undertaken in exchange their fat loaf to serve the passa, oppressing the people. In the field of information, however, it is essential to stop the news that has been definitively broken, heavyly swooped analyses are supposed to affect the opponents of the "papasades" of the interlocutory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u425	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Christoforos Papadopoulos has the floor, and then the Chief of Police Vice-Population. I would like to say to the Members of Parliament who have not been before the Heads of State or Government who will speak that there will be a flexibility next year so that there will be a substantial debate. Let's move effectively. Here, you have the floor, Mr. Papadopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u426	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, with the undeniable elements of the Committee of Inquiry's conclusion, one of the main conclusions is that the media and the parties have been loaned a whole period, without safeguards and without caps. The strange thing is that this unlimited credit extension, unconditional loans not only were given at the time of prosperity, but also at the midst of the crisis. Loans without guarantees, without financial repayment conditions, were granted in 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013 and 2014 when all showed the impossibility of their repayment. Low turnover, small advertising expenditure, negative capital, declining state subsidy. A key question that dealt with us as a committee of inquiry was: did the supervisory authorities, the European Central Bank, the Bank of Greece, have any tools to stop the uncontrolled lending party? Here the deposits of the Bank of Greece's executives are of special interest. Mr Provopoulou in his statement claimed that following the liberalisation of the banking system in the mid-90s, banks had the right to grant loans where they wanted, as they wanted, to whom they might want, with the sole limitation of obeying the rules of lending. The Provopoulou claim was denied by the Bank of Greece's officials and today's President, Mr Stournaras, himself, when he said very clearly and very specifically that this was the case until 2009. Since 2010, the European Central Bank has given the tools to banks, to put a brake on uncontrolled lending, to create a new banking bubble and to the systemic risk of the banking system, which is understood to create the need for continuous recapitalisations, three have been made in our country. The supervisory authority had a way of requiring banks to borrow high risk collateral, high projections, expensive interest rate and, in particular, participation of companies in equity through the increase in equity. The basic political and institutional question is therefore why none of it has been implemented. The banks financed all the years of the crisis without any of the above guarantees. You know, this has changed only since mid-2015 and especially in 2016 with the creation of the Committee of Inquiry. At that time, the banks required guarantees, guarantees, capital increases, and therefore syndicated loans from SMEs to be denounced as well as loans from the parties. Indeed, the system of supervision in our country is diverse, multi-teaching. Think of the European Central Bank, Bank of Greece, Financial Stability Fund, Single Supervisory Mechanism, a set, supposedly, of supervisory bodies, who only make it easy to distribute responsibility. There is a huge responsibility and even irresponsible, when in July 2014 and July 2015, at the bank run that was encouraged by the encouragement, with the instigation of the triangle of interlocutors and parties and SMEs, but also of the banks themselves at the expense of their capital base, they left terrifying money from the Greek banks without opening any nostrils. The triangle, you see, has preferred to break down the banks, to jeopardise the deposits of ordinary people, to come back to things rather than to protect the labors of fellow citizens, the economy of the country and the banking system itself. There is a second question: was this all a case of ideoscopy? So, uncontrolled lending, banks' immunity, the absence of regulators is a matter of ideology and not of ideology? Does neoliberals have the deep conviction that all economic problems are solved through the market and do not the state's presence and regulation need to be present and regulated? It could be claimed, except that the facts show other facts. The most famous and most glamorous example is the story of the Agricultural Bank. In 2013, on one night, it was decided by the Bank of Greece and the Treasury to close the Agricultural Bank, a systemic impact we are paying for and we pay it as a state, as well as an economy. We are the only state in the European Union that has no special-purpose bank, no rural bank, no postal savings bank, no investment bank. It does not, in short, have alternative funding instruments outside the four systemic banks, from a banking system over-concentrated and, indeed, unable to perform its role in the real economy. SYRIZA for that very reason tried to devise new tools to deal with the problem of investment in the real economy. The question is: Did Provopoulou close the Agricultural Bank overnight and divide it into 'good' and 'bad', and do you know what's strange? Loans, which were unpaid for three years already, such as loans from the parties, went to the 'good' bank. In our question, how was loans already being made that were protesting, which were due, taken them to the 'good' bank and did not give them to the liquidator of the 'bad' bank? The answer was clearly pretentious: "They did not have good information systems in the Agricultural Bank and we did not have the situation, so that we could justify the loans as they are". [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And the question now is: Why did that happen? Was Provopoulou an intransigent fundamentalist of the markets, which he does not care about, that is, any regulation within the landscape? It would be so if some details were not inserted, such as the fact that unsafe loans were considered safe in bay.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u427	Mr. Papadopoulos, just one minute, I'll give you another.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u428	That's enough, Mr. President. At the same time, "PIRAIOS" took a gift to get the "bad" loans. He took a little present, which was the EUR 500 million projections, forecasts, which are the bank's own funds or profits. She took her share, paid her "bad" loans and remained a profit. In other words, uncontrolled lending and the absence of control are not only an issue of ideology or neoliberal ideology, if you wish, but also economic interlocutory. The final conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, is that we cannot go far with this institutional framework, that we need directly economic and supervisory institutions. And you know, we won't be the exception. Even Germany, the extreme neoliberalism and extreme austerity, for the rest, currently has the most extensive network of non-systemic banks, and at the same time the ‘Bundesbank’, the central bank of Germany, limits the credit expansion on housing loans because it fears a ‘fuss’.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u429	Please, Mr. Papadopoulos, get it over with.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u430	I mean, in other words, it is not a revolutionary act to build audit institutions, it is not a revolutionary act to build new investment tools, it is not a revolutionary act to create ways of new growth, it is your obligation and it is our responsibility.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u431	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty-six students and students and two educational attendants from the High School of Agia Larissa (Second Chamber). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The floor is held by the Chief of Officer's Representation, Mr. Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u432	Ladies and gentlemen, in my previous speech to the House, I mentioned the unique historic opportunity that Mr Tsipras has lost to correct the timeless sufferings of our political system: populism, the client state, the complexity. You did, Mr Tsipras, have had a great opportunity, but you have lost it and, unfortunately, with you Greece has lost it, because, although young, you have proved yourself older and worse than the old ones. The country actually has a tradition of populist politicians, but nowadays, populism has exceeded every previous one. The distortion of reality is on the agenda. False divisions and conspiracy theories are your daily practice and the murders of characters by your paid trolls are your great specialty. You have risen into power within a crescendo of false promises and fall into a delicacy of mudology and, to slow your collapse, you are attempting to stand up to two imperials: the first is the construction of a new client state. It is true that the control of the state in order to satisfy party appointments has been a priority for every executive for many years. At the same time, of course, to be honest, it was also a demand for many citizens. But, in the years of the crisis, these practices have been significantly reduced, and I have given a personal struggle to root out customer logic, which has kept the country behind, and to introduce to public administration the concept of evaluation, which you have so warded, and merit, two concepts that are not very familiar to you, Mr Tsipras. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And this was an important side-effect of the crisis, until now, of course, that you have undertaken, because you have once again divided the Greeks into ours and others. You have once again implemented and despite the very narrow frameworks of the commemorations of party discrimination in the state. You have appointed thousands of your own from the back door, in just two years, with unique credentials, not their qualifications, but their party loyalty, and when we accuse you of that, you had the courage, Mr. Tsipras, to abandon us from this step for allegedly class discrimination, as if there were no poor children with degrees and qualifications who could take the positions of your party bestowers! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And all this happens at the same time, when hundreds of private workers lose their jobs every day. You have demolished every sense of merit and, above all, revived the expectations of a great public, at a time when completely different messages must be sent to the new generation. The second impediment, which you tried to stand up to your collapse, is the battle against corruption and interlocutory, the supposedly moral advantage of the Left, as soon as a joke. You presented yourself as the "white knights" of the clearance. You described the old political system as corrupt. And indeed, at the beginning of your administration, I understand that this work could be cut off, because it is true that there were entrepreneurs who used their influence in the media, in order to promote their interests. There was a conflict in Greece, except you didn't fight it, but you tried to make a deal with it. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You made secret meetings with publishers! We didn't do it! You used it - how does Mr. Paulakis say it? - "the botanical" of interlocutory, which gave you a step forward to promote your most vulgar populism. And, of course, if I remember correctly, in this Chamber you threatened by Mr Drasakis, that the names of the interlocutory will reveal everything in the House when SYRIZA becomes government. And when you came to power, you tried to build your own new arrangement methodically. And this new strife is more poisonous than the old one, because it is based on deeds and habits, eroding institutions of the civil society, destroying independent principles and embracing openly in justice. Mr. Kalogritsa's pastures and the interventions at the "Attica Bank" will be a sad reminder of your behaviour in the history of the future. Sadly, however, for you, but fortunately for democracy, independent justice defended the authority of the institutions and your plan to control the broadcasting landscape has collapsed after the 'legality slash' of the Council of State. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The case of Mr. Pappas's fiasco contest for television licences will be taught for many years as a model of interactiveity. For you it turns out that the supposed fight against interlocutory is nothing but a pretext for the concentration of as many powers on your face as possible, a pretext for the gradual dismantling of the rule of law and the last refuge in the face of the growing social outcry of the most failed and harmful government that the place has ever known since post-multiple. Indeed, it is so successful, gentlemen of SYRIZA, your efforts at the front of the fight against corruption, that the country has retreated eleven positions in the classification of corruption in International Transparency. I have here the relevant table, Mr. Tsipras, with your course and your returns. Thus, a very important effort was interrupted, which had started since 2012 and resulted from the ninety-fourth position to reach the fifty-eighth. Nowadays we have rejoined in the sixty - nineteenth place. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It seems that only you and Mr. Pappas, when he's not busy with various space searches, do you think that for your day, corruption and complications have been fought? I guess, Mr. Pappa, you're from another planet. Mr. Tsipras, you recommended that a committee of inquiry be set up in an attempt to build enemies and attack your political opponents. You did, of course, while you knew that with regard to parties' loans, justice has already decided that there are no responsibilities, and with regard to media loans there is already a thorough investigation by the financial prosecutors. We had no difficulty in agreeing to the proposal for a committee, although we were absolutely sure of your real intentions. We were sure that you wanted to use the committee of inquiry as a means of intimidating bank officials on the one hand and the media on the other. It was an opportunity to find it with the old complex, but at the same time to create the new, your own complex. You have made sure, of course, that you also send a clear message: Those who do not find it with us will have the fate of Mr Psych and the Doll. Some people rushed to compromise at high speed - they were the same ones you accused as intermittent - and to turn their forms into government libraries. Some others resisted and found themselves in the target of government blackmail and drunkenness. But, you know, Mr. Tsipras, it's not a string, you're the wrong one. And as much as you're trying to manipulate the media, reality is relentless and persecuting you. It's not the media mirror. Your idol is disgraceful in the consciousness of the great majority of Greek citizens. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, after tens of meetings, with the intensive presence of several executives and witnesses in the committee of inquiry, the conclusion reached by the majority is simple and completely cancels government propaganda. What does the majority conclusion say? There have been no responsibilities for political persons and no extra-institutional intervention by political persons in the field of lending. That's what your finding says. with one exception, of course: your own, in the case of "AGEI", your party body, which even owns a company of offshore with its own ownership. You still haven't told us who the shareholder is behind the offshore that has a percentage in "AGE". The newspaper of your party, Mr. Tsipras, although it obviously does not have a credit rating - after all, it is a newspaper that sells two thousand cards - and does not meet financial criteria, gets loans. Why does he get loans? Because you're asking. Because there is behind SYRIZA, who guarantees the loans of SYRIZA, by mortgageing its state funding. And you've made these personal and signatures. I would also like to present to you the relevant statement, which demonstrates your intervention in a statement by Mr Dimitris Stoubos, who clearly says that for this 1,2 million-dollar loan we had asked the coalition leader to support this request. It is therefore submitted to the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Of course, this did not find its place in the majority conclusion, on four hundred and ten five pages. I wonder why? The conclusion, however, also comes to another interesting conclusion. What's that? All parties received funding, precisely in the same way, with the sole guarantee of future state subsidies. That's what New Democracy did. That's what PASOK did. That's what you did. But be careful. Only one party president sent a letter to a bank which, in order to justify the request for a supplementary loan, requires the banking institution - and I read - a broader view, which is not solely determined on the basis of strict and unique banking criteria. This is you, Mr. Tsipras, when the leader of a small party in 2010 asked you to borrow over your capabilities. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Of course, all parties owe the banks the whole amount of their capital, plus the floats. And we belong to this category, with an exception again. The only party that has benefited twice from deletion of bank debt - guess what it is - SYRIZA is again. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Strange things happen here. One with the deletion of the debt for the property of Koumoundouros and one for the deletion of debts of the newspaper "AGEY" in which you are a key shareholder. This, you know, in the language of the wise Greek people it's said, "You went for wool and you went out into a platter" from this story of inquiries. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The result, however, is a trick for the majority for two more reasons: the first is because some invisible hand, as the Vice-President of the Committee of Inquiry, Mr Kammens, denounced, intervened and changed the content of the findings. We had another conclusion at the beginning. Another finding was then posted. Things got into the finding. Things came to the conclusion without any explanation of what this invisible hand was, which made such interventions. Secondly - and I cannot really comment on this - large pieces of the findings, Mr Tsipras, are the product of theft. The copying - I have it here - became a word for word from text posted on the Aristo-Blue Group website. You've copied whole pages. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Well, so many editors you have who write non papers, couldn't you find one to write something original, one of all those in Maximos' basements? Were you supposed to go copy whole pages? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So this conclusion is being discussed today by the invisible hand and the censorship and conclusion which ultimately does not account for any responsibility to political persons and which, of course, aims to transfer the debate from the huge deadlocks in which our country has come under the sole responsibility of the government. Ladies and gentlemen, in my previous speech to the House two weeks ago, I warned the government and Mr Tsipras personally that he is entangled in a tragic deadlock, that it is repeated as a tragedy in the first traumatic half of 2015, that this way the forbidden debate on Grexit is returning to public debate. We were then accused of being a liar of party propaganda. We were accused of being dangerous, so that the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman himself could open up a question of Grexit and even encourage us to discuss it here in this House. I don't see him today. Oh, there he is! I'm sorry, he's here! I didn't see you. I was looking down the hall. But no reaction from the late government, no paper from the extremely effective propaganda mechanism, no public rebuke to Mr. Xydakis. The fact that the spreads were launched left you icyly indifferent. The fact that any nonsense a government executive has an impact on the real economy leaves you provokingly indifferent. Unless Mr. Xydakis didn't say anything nonsense, but he revealed alternatives that you are considering, Mr. Tsipras, to stay in power. Because that's all you care about, staying at all costs in power and that's why you're mocking everyone. Mr Xydakis said in public just something you are discussing and in private, that if we are over pressed by creditors, there is another way. We are poor, we have nothing to lose, we are barely going to gain our independence. Who is then compiled, Mr Tsipras, with Mr Symble, whose thoughts of exiting Greece from the euro are known? We or your executives? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And you dare accuse the New Democracy of being Mr. Shoeble's underhand - as if you were not shy. - when your own strains resuscitate the drachma issue. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And when does this statement come? It doesn't come in an accident. It comes at a troubled time, where various view the dissolution of the euro area. It comes at a time when a degraded society is even more vulnerable than it was in the past in conspiracy theories and in populist narratives of national independence. The camps in Greek society are now clear. On the one hand there are the defenders of urban democracy, those who consider Greece's presence to be the hard core of Europe as an unnegotiable post. On the other hand, there are various heirous forces, defenders of ethnicism, fantasizing other streets for the country and taking courage from some of those who anticipate the end of a united Europe. The problem, Mr Tsipras, is that you do not really know which of the two camps you belong to. Ladies and gentlemen, the time in the clavicle of the country is unfortunately too fast. Should the second assessment have been completed when, ladies and gentlemen? In February 2016, just a year ago. Mr Tsakalots has already committed the country to primary surpluses which go far beyond the end of the third programme. Our lenders, too, do require too much additional measures. They do this because, unfortunately, this is the price of Mr Tsipras' personal unreliability. Measures are the forced price of the failure of your policy, your tragic inability and the profound refusal to carry out the changes they need. Many of them - and I am going to refer to specific examples - are changes which do not have budgetary costs. You're the only one in charge who's causing new austerity measures, Mr. Tsipras. And because no one believes that this government can actually implement substantial reforms, that is why the government is being asked today, but of course also from the country, to make additional commitments. The danger for the country is enormous. Repeat in the first half of 2015, but in much worse conditions for all Greek women, for all Greeks, because today we are more weakened, we are weaker, we are more devastated, with much less credibility. The dilemma, which you caused with your inability in the first half of 2015, was finally ‘Grexit or a third memorandum’. Today you go to "Grexit or Fourth Memorandum". Don't rush again to accuse us that we're in danger. The independent Bureau of the Parliamentary Budget in its last quarterly report strongly criticises the tactics of the prolonged delay. It states: ‘The financial cost of delays and postponements in the evaluation procedures may be higher for Greece than the potential benefit, which will also prove temporary’. He says, however, much more alarming: "If there is no agreement with the ESS or financing through out the markets, then bankruptcy will be inevitable with a possible consequence of exiting the euro". And Mr Liargovas came in last Saturday in an interview and said something else: 'If there is no fourth memorandum, if we are not offered a fourth memorandum, then we are talking about the immediate scenario of exiting the euro area'. We must not get there, especially because no-one today with the balance of power in Europe, and especially in Germany, does not guarantee us, Mr Tsipras, that there will be a fourth memorandum if Greece is to ask for it. That is why, Mr Tsipras, you must leave as soon as possible. That you can't or don't want is of little importance anymore. What matters is that you have no right to lure a country into the cliff, because that's where your government leads us. We have been warning you from this for a long time now that you are driving the country into an absolute deadlock, and here you have led us today. You are constantly repeating the same mistakes. You are delaying the implementation of what you have committed and you are wasting what you have left of the minimum credibility fund, which you have, not your own, capital of the country, thus increasing the requirements on the other hand. Once again, you have read the power connections wrongly. You were telling us that you have isolated the extremists and that you are creating a new great alliance in the Eurogroup a few days ago was all toward us, unfortunately. They were all written with the hardest and irrational demands of lenders. This has not only been done in the recent Eurogroup. It was also in December, when with Mr Tsakalotos' signature you committed the country to long-term austerity. I wonder, Mr Tsipras, how many times do you have to make the same mistake at the expense of the country? You did it in the first half of 2015 and it cost us almost 100 billion. He's turned back our economy for years. You did it in the first evaluation. You've been late a year. And what happened to us? Catrugalu insurance, cutter, superstition and 9 billion-dollar taxes! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] That was the cost of delay! You are now doing this for an evaluation, which should have been closed for twelve months, with fewer demands. Because of the government's manipulations today, much more is requested from the country. I wonder why didn't they ask for all this last year? Why has the debate never taken place last year on measures after 2019 and the debate has now come to light? Because this is the price of your personal unreliableness and your total inability to implement any real reform. You have no excuse, because you know very well how critical time is. After all, you yourself - Mr Tsakalotos in particular - said that if we do not close the assessment in December, the economy will have a major problem. We're entering February and still nothing! Don't you have any responsibility for that, Mr. Tsipras? Of course you do! Well, we're telling you once again that we're not going to allow you to play the fate of the country in the dice. Two years now, all you have done is to charge taxes to the Greeks and new austerity measures. On the contrary, you have done nothing essential to promote real changes, you have done nothing essential on the front of the demilitarisations. Of course, as long as these structural changes are not implemented, to which the most important part of the memorandum relates, the country's image is even more unreliable abroad. It is truly impressive that Mr Tsakalotou's cynical confession that the Government has not implemented two thirds of its commitments to the second evaluation programme. They confirmed it once again, and your own non papers of Maximus. What is the negotiating power against the partners when a government so clearly accepts its failure? And how can pressures and demands not then be increased? Mr. Finance Minister, have you told Mr. Tsipras all this? The Prime Minister, while saying 'we have kept all the agreeds', has he heard the Finance Minister, who says that we have only done one/3? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] That's not serious! Who are you finally mocking, Mr. Tsipras, and who's paying for mocking? Homeland and citizens. You raise the cost of each negotiation, pretending the hard walnuts for internal consumption, while the real economy sinks, liquidity does not exist, private debt is increasing at an appalling rate. The loan interest rates were ejected, the two-year bond was yesterday at 9.45%. Worse than a third world! Is that how we get out on the market, Mr. Tsipras? The public debts to private individuals - part of which had to be repaid by the dose, which has not yet come - are increasing, but obviously these are not very much of interest to you. Let me remind you, ladies and gentlemen, of a number of commitments to structural changes, which, while not having budgetary costs, do not have a financial benefit, do not implement them. You do not pay late government debts. And you are proud that you have exceeded the objective of the primary surplus as a result of an unacceptable overtaxation of productive Greece. You've worked on the concession of the fourteen regional airports. You lost a year of this case. A year has passed, which could have been upgraded by airports to bring revenues to the Greek State. Of course, you are delaying the privatization of the Greek area, which is the largest investment that can be made today in Greece. It'll create tens of thousands of jobs. As if you don't care at all, no one is interested in this investment! You have plunged the militarization of the D.C.T.A. It would bring 188 million to the Treasury. Of course, until the last minute you have been stumbling blocks in the privatisation of TRAINOSE, to sell it for 45 million, when we had secured a price of 300 million two years ago, while I hear that you are preparing a new state TRAINOSE, so that it will obviously be able to compete with the private and to help you with anything of your own party homes. You've done your best, Mr. Tsipras, to weaken the banking system. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Be quiet, please. Why, Mr. Tsipras, are you being so delayed in placing administrations in the banks? Why are you delaying the establishment of a modern system of out-of-court settlement and a framework for settlement and resolution of the issue of red loans so that banks can finally resuscitate and give real liquidity to the market? Is there any justification why the large systemic banks have been headless for seven, eight months? Instead of streamlining the state, you're moving on to a sterile partisanization. Why haven't you gone ahead with your plans for evaluation of civil servants, Mr. Tsipras? Do you think evaluation is a luxury today for the public or is contrary to your ideological genes? Why do you not implement the OECD Toolbox recommendations, which would today strengthen competition? Why do you denounce mass transport operators with your policies by creating new huge deficits, which will of course be loaded on the backs of Greek taxpayers? And why do you refuse to legislate on a modern framework to curb the privileges of trade unionists? I have given you ten examples of interventions included in the framework of the second evaluation, which have no financial costs, and which are the only reason why you are not making them. Therefore, this should have been done, not only to get us out of the crisis, not just to stop over-excessive, unnecessarily over-taxation, and not obviously, because some bad strangers are imposing them on us, but because they are good changes that will improve the competitiveness of the Greek economy and make our state more friendly and more effective. And that is why we claim that today the country needs a new reformist government, a government with a national plan that goes far beyond the commitments of the third programme, a New Democracy government, but a government and all Greeks and Greeks who believe in the truth, hope and perspective, a government that will consistently implement all the necessary changes in the state, education, health, public administration, security and the primary sector. That is why, Mr Tsipras, you must leave an hour ago, so that we can save what is now being salvaged in an international environment, which, unfortunately, is changing rapidly and with international circumstances that - I am sorry to say - are not at all favourable to our country. Greece, after two years of governance Tsipras - Kammenos is weakened. And history teaches us that, whenever our country is weak, the risks are multiplied. Ladies and gentlemen, I will close with this comment: we as a new Republic are ready to assume our responsibilities. We know very well that the next day will not be an easy day for the country, because our country has taken many steps back these two years. Opportunities have been lost, our credibility has collapsed and, unfortunately, problems have multiplyed, but the most important thing is: The hope that things can go better has been replaced by a deep sense of pessimism and by an undercover fear. And that fear we have to fight. But, in general depression, there are new currents in the Greek society that form a new, silent majority at the moment, a majority which asks politicians for truth rather than false hope. It is a majority that wants to pay less taxes and understands that this can only happen through a more simple and effective state. It is a majority, which recognises as the sovereign value of democracy, that one should be judged on the basis of his real potential and not his party acquaintances. It is a majority, which expects parties to give a specific costly programming speech rather than an insurmountable announcement. It is a majority who wants to see new people in common, new opportunities for young people to offer in public spheres. This silent majority we want to express. We do not care what it has voted for until now and we therefore seek political change as soon as possible. We say clearly to the Greek women and the Greeks that we are ready for this responsibility. The Greek people are also ready and determined and their verdict will be catastrophic for you, Mr. Tsipras! And stop ignoring the will of the Greek people! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The people don't agree with everything you're doing. He doesn't trust you anymore. In these republics, the will of the people must be respected. Of course, I would like to say one last thing: don't think, Mr. Tsipras, to repeat the turbulence of the summer of 2015. Forget the referendum scenarios that move some of your officials, because in such turbulence neither the Opposition nor the Greek people are going to participate. The only service you can offer is to leave doing as little damage as possible at home. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u433	Thank you. I call the Prime Minister in Step and...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u434	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u435	You're very welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u436	You have to listen to me! That's not right.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u437	Mr Tsakalato, what's right is right. The President of SYRIZA and Prime Minister have the floor...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u438	Isn't there a regulation? Isn't it provided for by the Rules of Procedure? Can't I take the floor on staff? Six times he referred to my name!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u439	No, Mr. Chakaloto. Then.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u440	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u441	I would ask that 'no' not to me. Sit down and you'll get the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u442	You're unacceptable!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u443	Mr. Comrade, please, sit down. I would ask you to be calm and, when you address the Bureau, to be inadmissible and other things are completely out of place and time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u444	Rescind. We do not accept that for our President!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u445	Mr. Georgiadis, please! The President and President of SYRIZA, Alexis Tsipras, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u446	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Mitsotakis, I have heard you once again address the question of evaluation and negotiation and I honestly wonder what your position is. Until now, I have had the feeling that you are a preacher of seashoes, today I find that you are also a preacher of irresponsibility, Mr Mitsotakis! [[Vibrant applause from SYRIZA Wing]] So stubbornly, in order to achieve your micropolitical goal, you do not hesitate at a critical moment for the country to do harm in the country, not in the government. And you come here and reproduce the propaganda of those who pressure the country with irrational demands. On the one hand, once again you come here and tell us that we are delaying and using unfounded assumptions, reproducing media. I will not reply myself, the Minister for Finance himself has asked for the floor later. But you are telling us that we are late to close the evaluation. But you don't know, Mr. Mitsotakis - where you live? - that the assessment does not close because the International Monetary Fund calls for unnecessarily preventive measures of 2% of GDP?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u447	Now he's asking for it!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u448	So what are you asking us for? You're asking us to accept them. Why don't you open up? Why don't you tell the Greek people your opinion? But at the same time that you say we are late, you are rushing to accuse us of being prepared to hold back - it says - in the chairs of power, to give land and water to the lenders. Just a pair of yours. Heads win, tails lose. Only, Mr Mitsotakis, are we talking here about the future of the country and about the strengths of the Greek people. You can't play. You're Chief of Officer Opposition. You must take a stand before the Greek people and in front of the Greek Parliament. Decide what is happening, both cannot be done at the same time. Are we obsessive leftists who do not understand the wisdom of the International Monetary Fund, or are we brokers who have given it all? Because this is a fundamental contradiction in the creation of your argument. You come here and reproduce the arguments of extreme circles, that we are supposedly left behind and have not been reformed. But what disguises you and those who try to corner Greece is the very reality. Because in a year and a half we have managed to do what you have not been able to do in five years. We set the economy back on its feet, we have positive growth rates. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] We have closed in 2016 with three months of positive growth, we have reduced unemployment of four units, streamlined public funding, relaunched major projects, upgraded the country's position on the international geopolitical scene. So in the face of the irrationalities that the International Monetary Fund is asking for and you, as its tail, are following, we have the same numbers as our most important ally. And that is something that cannot be circumvented. One cannot bypass the fact that we have already caught positive growth rates and in 2016, while the primary surplus target was 0.5%, the results show that it is very likely that the primary surplus will reach 2%, that is, by 2016 that we had 0.2% growth, the target of 2017 that is 0.75%, with growth forecasts of 2.5% and 3%. And it is precisely this reality that does not allow you, Mr Mitsotakis, to charge delays to the Greek Government. It is precisely this reality that leads your argument about supposedly unreliability of the Greek Government. In any case, I repeat: will you finally get a clear position? The Greek people hear you. What exactly do you propose? What are your positions? Do you disagree or agree with the requirements of extreme circles and of the International Monetary Fund for preventive measures? Is it necessary to restore collective bargaining or is it an obsession and a left-wing idealism? At last, show at a critical moment that you have a fundamental awareness of the social, national interest. Our attitude, Mr. Mitsotakis, is clear. And we know as long as we give the battle of negotiation in the interests of Greek society, we are not willing to vote for measures. For you declare in your attitude right and left one thing, your willingness to accept what they want and even more, to accept extreme austerity as you have done before. All you care about is that you can go back to the positions of power, to do what you have done all the previous years for plundering and bankrupt the country. That's all you care about! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] But at the same time that you do not miss a chance to express your sympathy to our lenders, with statements like that of your Vice-President that these and so many other you will accept or your deputy representative that our lenders care about the good of the Greek people - you call them right and left -, speed up and respond to constructed reports that you will not accept an increased majority for new measures. But who asked you to vote for new measures? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] If we, Mr Mitsotakis, are looking for a common national front, a common national line, it is not for us to accept and vote for unnecessarily new measures, but for us to deny these, for the benefit of the Greek people and the Greek society. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] But you again refuse to take a clear position. It turns through the engagement again! Even at the time that conservative governments in Europe, like those of your fellow citizens, in Cyprus and Spain clearly support Greece's positions at the South Summit last Saturday in Lisbon and in the public communiqué, you cannot find a single word to support your country in this crucial effort in favour of the Greek people! That's who you are! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] So blinded by your passion to go back to the chairs of power! But you're going to step on it again, as happened with the first evaluation. Because Greece will succeed in persuading your small-party pursuits, Mr Mitsotakis. The evaluation will be closed and, above all, it will be closed without any concessions to the authorities. Because Europe is not facing another crisis, because the extraordinary performance of the Greek economy does not justify the revival of the crisis and this time we are not alone. The vast majority of Europe recognises the sacrifices of the Greek people, recognises the positive course of the Greek economy and asks, as expressed explicitly in the communiqué of the countries of the south, for a timely closure of the evaluation on the basis of the acquis communautaire and with respect for the constitutional and democratic values of Greece and Europe. Because what the IMF is asking for - and you seem to be smiling about them - is not just beyond and outside any economic logic, it is beyond and beyond any democratic and constitutional logic and value. From this simple point of view, we ask you to resign and deny it. One last thing, Mr. Mitsotakis, to get to the point next. In relation to your koruna, once again, on Grexit and Dragon, I would suggest that you do not spoil your time by serving and testing your own hot food again. We, Mr Mitsotakis, proved when things were not funny, not in the hallways in the House, but in the rain, where decisions were really heavy and difficult, and the sense of responsibility we have towards the Greek people and our European choice at a great cost, when we were called upon to make difficult decisions. But notice that you from your great love to your fellow German Minister for Finance - because in your own political family it belongs to us - identify yourself with his views and his plans. Because asking for elections with passion, while the evaluation has not been closed, or thoughtlessness is or is useful, Mr Mitsotakis, unless you do not know where such an version could lead to the place. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And to say that you have a serious counter-proposal, that you want to negotiate better for the benefit of the country, to understand it. You want elections to hand over the people and the country prey to the hands of the most extremists. Well, we won't do you a favor! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] We will not abandon the Greek people in the hands of the willing ones. We will negotiate and achieve the best for the Greek people. We will close the evaluation and we will be the government that will close this vicious circle of the Memorandum Governments. We will take the country out of the memorials and from the committee, which you have led us with your policies, which have been looting and bankrupt in the country for forty years now. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] The Greek people, whether you like it or not, Mr Mitsotakis, will judge us all and will judge it all on time, with the country upright and, above all, with society upright, in the autumn of 2019, when this adventure is finally over, when we will have high growth rates when the Greek society and the Greek economy have been in a different phase. However, I now come to our point. As you have seen, I wasted only 12 minutes and not half an hour of my speech on these issues, because the rest of the hour I will deal with other more cute issues, Mr Mitsotakis. For almost thirty years now we have been constantly discussing the complexion, but no parliamentary majority has dared to take the initiative to examine and reveal the depth and content of the conflict in our country and to deal with names, addresses, bank accounts and figures, because it is the first time that a government at a cost - you can see that, you all know - decide not to compromise and collide. Thus, for the first time in the House there is a detailed and detailed discussion of the media and parties' loans. For the first time, a time-consuming scandal is being investigated with this proposal for a committee of inquiry, and I believe that citizens will be able to learn the truth and judge, learn with evidence everything that happened, everything that was supposed to be happening, but without anyone presenting them. They will be able to see that reality sometimes goes beyond the most ill imagination. They will eventually be able to understand how this system was operating by the country until the political change of January 2015. It is the same system that led the country to bankruptcy and to the Memorandums and which in 2010 up to its final defeat policy in 2015, was spoiled rawly by the real economy, public resources, the social state, destroyed one quarter of our national wealth, while at the same time sworn to entrepreneurship and growth. He was talking about the need for the Greeks to suffer bloody sacrifices at the time, but he had arranged himself in an extremely convenient way at the expense of the public interest and while society was bleeding, the bags of sea-loving were coming from the banks to the parties and to the accounts of the publishing bands. On the one hand, you were shaking the finger in the world, saying "We ate it together with you, it was your fault, as much as we rule you have" and on the other hand, the money was hot on the party funds to the health of the sucklers. So to understand the people who are watching us exactly how this case is, let us speak simply and clearly. But, you know, it's not only the citizens who will learn, but also the justice that will have in her hands this time. Don't be in a hurry. I have seen you everywhere, right - left, say 'carbons the treasure!'. The conclusion of the Committee of Inquiry lies in justice, and that is what it will judge whether there are criminal responsibilities of political persons. She will judge whether there is any involvement of persons under the law on the responsibility of ministers. [[Noise - protests from the New Democracy Wing]] Why are you upset? You know what? Do you know from somewhere that there's no involvement? Why are you upset?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u449	Political persons will be judged by the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u450	Mr. Georgiadis, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u451	The Constitution has not been read, Mr President, and is it a Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u452	So it is justice that will rule, whether you want it or not, because, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy and PASOK, we have seen a great deal of time left to the citizens...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u453	Read the Constitution!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u454	Please, Mr. Georgiadis. He'll talk later.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u455	He's making fun of the Greek people!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u456	First of all, it is incomprehensible what you are doing. Your parliamentary representative will speak after a number of speeches. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u457	I see your agony, as I saw your agony coming out and saying that the conclusion does not confirm the existence and functioning of the interlocutory triangle. If you weren't accountable for these revelations themselves, you'd just be funny. But you're accountable. [[Vibrant applause from SYRIZA Wing]] So I'm starting with the media so I won't waste any time. The conclusion of the Committee of Inquiry shows that they owe the banks a total of EUR 1.3 billion, which the Greek taxpayer, the Greek people, recapitalises with warm money. Most of these EUR 1.3 billion are borrowing and unscrupulous, that is to say, there is no possibility of repayment. Why did this happen? He said so clearly and clearly in the committee of inquiry, Mr Pyrycharis, not the one who was a Member of Parliament until before, but the other. So what did he say? He said that these loans were granted with air, without guarantees and without any risk assessment. Of course, this money was not used to develop groups. They're the other ones. You know very well where they went. They went to villas in Porto Heli, in luxurious resorts in Switzerland, in cheap and in tax havens. All of this and much more - we will learn from what will be revealed in the course - has been done with the tolerance of your governments. That's the reality. Even worse, the deeper we entered into the crisis, the more this kind of lending, instead of becoming more difficult, became easier. As the companies' balance sheets were filled with passively, the debts accumulated and the equity were depleted, both the funding grid opened. Mr. Mitsotakis, you don't call that healthy entrepreneurship! I would therefore like to make three comments here. The first point is that graceful lending has been raised and culminated in the time of the crisis, that is to say, even healthy businesses could not borrow euros, not to unleash, but not even to make openings, pay suppliers, upgrade their equipment, hunt jobs and, of course, ensure decent jobs. The second observation is that the banks were throwing money out the window to lend bankrupt media to support your policies, at the same time as the Greek people were asked to recapitalise them twice, paying a total of EUR 30 billion for banks, with loans that, of course, increased the country's debt. That's how the country's debt is increased and not by borrowing you're getting to pay back the previous one, what you've given us all these years. And you have the nerve to come here and say that the third loan we took to pay off your own broken money has saved the country. The sea-lovings have saved the country. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Are you going to say, of course, that it is only for the loans to the media and the parties about the situation of the banks? Of course not. However, the EUR 1.7 billion loan and unscrupulously in tens and all businesses do not call it a bit! Unless you have an opposite view, Mr. Mitsotakis and Mr. PASOK! The crisis broke down business and households. The banks were loaded with red loans, but at the same time the media companies and your parties took money. You know, here is a moral issue: First, giving the bank money, knowing that it will lose it, is a transaction, conciliation illegal, illegal and for the person who gives it illegal and for the person who gets it. Secondly, this illegal conciliation was buying something. And we will see exactly what he bought as soon as we put in the overall picture and lending of the parties. The third observation is that the bubble has broken and many publishing groups are on the edge of the cliff. And do you know what sad is? The sad thing is that there are people who will be on the street looking for a job of EUR 100 and EUR 150 and will have to find eight such jobs so that they can live decently. Also, the sad thing is that there are people who have passed fifty and will find it very difficult to find an employer who will hire them. But, at the same time, big bosses and heavy journalistic names have secured money for ten lives, just that money, millions, which were given in air, like marouilles, these millions who forgot to declare them on the "outside" and which, if they are asked by institutions who have found this money, are going up on the tiles and denounce political persecution and malnutrition of liberties. This is the tragic reality you have grown for years. We now go to your loans, to the loans of your parties, to the PASOK and to the New Democracy. You know, I was reading the other day that in Thailand it's tertiary world you say? - a major scandal broke out: it was revealed that "ROLLS - ROYCE" was buying state officials. The non-governmental organizations in the country demanded that the case be clarified, otherwise the country would not have a face to face with the world. Do you know what all that noise was about? For about $600 million. Well, New Democracy and the PASOK have only been "eaten" by the banks 420 million euros: 220 million euros, the New Democracy of Mr. Mitsotakis and another 200 million PASOKs, of a similar order. And you're doing what's wrong with all this? I would like to ask you: Do you ever think, has it gone through your mind, that this money was the money of the Greek people and they must be returned? Even if the State grant were all allocated, that money would go back to 2100 and put it! And there's nothing wrong! Doesn't that make you anything? I would like to point out that this is only what they have eaten directly from the banks and in consultation with them. Because, ladies and gentlemen, we all know in this country that in the 'SIEMENS' case there was a certain percentage of the black funds that, beyond aid to people, went to the parties. And, of course, it is now another case, NoVARTIS, which we will see and what will bring us, as will the beastly armaments programmes. What hatreds have entered the black funds of the parties that have been ruling the country for forty years - the money of the Greek public and the insurance funds - is something we are all left to look for to find. And you move our finger and you say "HAY!" You have the courage to come here and talk about "HAY"! You're not playing! You're incomprehensible now! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] And you, Mrs Gennimata - obviously I do not want to personally account for the responsibilities, but head a party - you have never told us what exactly happened with the PASOK loans - which, with today's data, will be repaid in three hundred years - exactly what happened with this EUR 15 million case found by sworn accountants in your party funds. Even the economic operator of PASOK, when he was a little horrific in the examination, stated ignorance of their origin.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u458	Lies!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u459	Lies!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u460	Lies! Tell us later. I'm finally waiting to hear! You know, it's not 10 euros, but 15 million. Do you understand what you're saying now? You have to tell the Greek people where these came from! With this, ladies and gentlemen, I have given you the example of Thailand - Thailand is a kindergarten in front of the party you have set up so many years of New Democracy and PASOK in our country. I would like to make a few comments here. Firstly, this money has been guaranteed for future state funding. No banker asked how we would ensure that tomorrow your parties fell from 35%, 40%, 45%, 10%, 15% or 5%, as you fell. Nobody! However, let us say that this requires political insight which the banker did not have. But he did not ask, when the crisis began, and when expenditure and government subsidies began to fall, what if funding was being reduced? What if these parties break up or fall? No one asked! They opened the drawers and then, in the days and years of the crisis, they were handy of what you were asking for. And you, of course, while with one hand you signed the memos, with the other hand you took that money. Secondly, I would like to say that I am very pleased One will say that now all of what I'm describing was done in the context of a habit of previous years and that all right, the bankers didn't know what to come. However, you did not give it to a bank to take money, but you gave it to more than one bank. And the banks that generally catch birds in the air and have an opinion on the course of the economy, on how to do it, how to cut costs, costs, wages, pensions, here they acted like virgins. They didn't ask each other what guarantees you received. And so, with a future funding, which predicted that the New Democracy would have saved 40% and the PASOK 35%, you received three-fold and four-fold loans. And you know, that's not a matter of moral order alone. I'm not a legal person, but I have the feeling that this is a cannabis fraud. Justice will rule on them. You see, TIERISIA is for poor people and those who do not have appropriate acquaintances. It's for bio-patients trying to keep their shop open, and they don't get a loan, and they put a padlock on small and medium-sized businessmen. But in your case, for the bankers, your word contract! How does the people say so? "You had a right," Mr. Mitsotakis! That's why! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] I think the third point I am going to make is the most interesting, because this is a disgrace that you will have to apologise at some point and apologize for decades. At some point the financial prosecutor understood the scale of the fraud and charged - I'm talking about the famous 'Kaloudis' - criminal responsibilities for the bankers and the economic operators of the parties. So what did you do then? In 2013 you passed an amendment to a reproach, which gave immunity to the bankers for the millions pushed to you. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] And so to say for the useless information of the day, that this amendment was a delay. And I would also say that she was raised on the back of the three poor MPs of the New Democracy, Mr Christoyannis, Mr Tsumanis and Mr Stamenitis. I really don't know where people are today. Well, if we put them on google, we won't find them. I would also like to say that you did not make that amendment for your mother's soul, so that the poor bankers, who had helped you in their kindness and abundance, would not be punished. You have gone through that amendment because if you did not find a way to neutralize the 'Koloudi' gift, you too were in danger of a moral automobile. Fourth point: You must not at last say - all right, you took the money, 220 million each - what did you do with it? Where'd you spend all this money? Where'd all that money go? And if we now add to these sea-lovings and the great amounts of state funding in the period of fat cows, there is one question that the Greek people want to know. Finally - fifthly - I want you to tell us which borrower would be treated the same way by the banks, not to pay for years a single euro, and the banks have forgotten their existence. Only some - what do the institutions call it? - strategic defaulters, strategic malpractices such as yourself, gentlemen of the New Democracy and PASOK. And you know this on the market is called 'the cannon', a cannon of 420 million from the so-called responsible political forces of the country, who now want elections to save the country. You're going to save us for plundering us, ruined us, bankrupt the country, and you're not going to tell us what you did with the money! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] But, you know, it's not just a cannon, because the conditions for this cannon you created with your own actions, having completely covered your back. So it's not a cannon. It's conscious and malicious mistrust. And I want to say one more thing. The problem is that with you and because of your practice you are discrediting the political system as a whole and gaining ground for forces that are supposedly antisystemic and say "all themselves are" and they say "no to the parties, to burn Parliament". Because of you! Because of these political choices, the institutions are discredited, democracy is discredited. So we are going now - because I see that they have turned blood on - to explain to you a little about the famous 'three-way of interlocutory', because you say it does not exist. The relationship between the banks, the media and your parties to explain it to you a little, to explain how it benefited each other. You know, now the daylight has stopped and some people start talking. And the partners began to give each other, and indeed, sometimes, with creepy details. From this triangle, then, you were the first to benefit. There's no doubt! With the loan that in times of elections was being launched at random, you violated a constitutional principle: that your parties are equal to the other parties in the elections. You had plenty of money to be advertised in an election, you had plenty of money to move voters, you had plenty of money to pay polls and determine the climate. In the last forty-eight hours there has been a rapid move, and that is why these polls have been denied. Incidentally, forty-eight hours before the election there was a move for the voters. You had plenty of money to make impressive election campaigns, you had the media, which, of course, received the money for this advertising and you had guaranteed from them a status of peculiarity. They held public television frequencies illegally, without ever paying a franc and at any time, with a wicked amendment, you exempted them from other obligations such as the tax on advertising revenue. Moreover, because many media owners were involved in other businesses, they also benefited from other amendments there. They took privileged contracts, which were scandalous, to go forth into public works, where at the time the cloud was going. And you're coming here now and you're so funny and you're showing us that corruption went up in the country when SYRIZA went up to power. Why? Because you are presenting the annual report of an NGO called 'International Transparency', which, however, concerns the subjective documentation of measuring the perception of corruption, not the actual size of corruption. And you know what's going on? All cases of corruption have now been opened with us and the sense of public opinion is that, yes, Greece is a corrupt country. You cover up and we reveal. That's the difference. And you're showing us paintings here. You're showing us paintings. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] You know, the Constitution provides that the state is required to ensure objective information. But I won't stand there. What an instrument says is his case. If it is objective or not, the viewer himself, the listener, the world, the citizens must judge it in the final analysis. But I will tell you this: the real power of the media is not in what they say, but in what they hide. And they've made you all the previous years scandalously as long as you were governments. And now they're doing you. They systematically disappeared from their agenda news and events that were unpleasant for you, things that in no way helped you to be heard and now they are doing exactly the opposite. If you had suffered 1/10 of this government's degradation campaign because you chose to collide with this triangle of interlocutory, you would not have lasted for forty years or forty days in power. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Finally, the banks secured a scheme that did not bother them at all. They could break rules unpunished. Any provision favoured them, they brought you ready and simply pushed it through to the House, while the collecting companies were extinguishing the citizens with daily bullying on behalf of the banks, you had it in regular form. The millions were given and received, the graceful amendments too. You didn't touch the banks, and they never even got touched by the media. And because you're going to call me a bad newsman, listen to what he wrote the day before, one of these people who are fighting for their jobs today, not the other ones who are the big journalists, who if you see their "substantially" you'd get fun. Of course, we don't know exactly. These are the declared ones. We're talking about the journalists who'll lose their job. He says, "HIMA had forgotten to judge the banks and to audit them in the press. He didn't put their illegal and abusive practices on the front page. At a time when every house was fighting with the banks, "BIMA" wrote mebanists for profits that were completely out of the global banking development scale. And he says more, but I won't tire you. So, ladies and gentlemen, this is the triangle of interlocutory that you say it does not exist, but it has ruled the place for forty years. And let me close by focusing on two issues. First, the 'DOL'. I told you before that Mr Psykharis is charged with charges for tens of millions of black money and, unfortunately, workers are going to unemployment. Let the world draw its conclusions from the course of a historical bucket of banks and the political establishment. Because that's exactly the problem. With the collapse of the old political establishment, the triangle and the transporting vessels collapsed. That is why the crisis in the press is the result of the political system crisis. It would really be a good job to have a new owner, to have a debt arrangement. I say it as I would say for every business that goes to close. You have given me the impression, however, on the fifteenth days since the previous debate in Parliament, that you do not want such a development. It's obvious. I asked you to see if we could find a solution for the workers and you said 'no'. So you give the impression that you prefer to close the band, rather than risk the possibility of a new property that will not continue to support you scandalously, which will not risk every day, it will not cut us, it will not be beg the lenders of the hard to deal with us hard. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Okay, we understand that, but people and workers must draw their conclusions to your attitude. We, you know, are not going to act for anyone. Every business that has a sustainability problem for us is the same. Take the MARINOPOULOS case, for example. He wasn't our political friend. It was probably yours, Mr. Samaras, Mr. Anastasiades who had his coupons in the paper. However, we have made sure that we find a solution not for him, but for the thousands of workers, for jobs. We're trying to do the same for everyone. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Two weeks ago I invited you to find a way not to find historically within the edge of the cliff. And you know, these instruments in no way can be described as government-friendly. While until then you were shed crocodile tears for workers, these tears suddenly stumbled. I would like, therefore, once again to call on you personally, Mr Mitsotakis, and all the political leaders, if you have any solution, to propose it. From this will be seen if you really want to save jobs and pluralism or only to ensure that you perform blindly your communication strategies. So if you're interested in us, we're here. Here's Rhodes, behold, and fuck. Secondly, your favorite "Greek of Chania", Mr. Mitsotakis. KERYKAS Chania, therefore, ensured a 300,000 euro loan a month before suspending its extradition. When you were pressed on this, you went out and said it was a historic newspaper and that you were the master of Venizelos. You may be a successor to Venizelos, but you are not also a heir to his conquest. You're just a heir to the interlocutory, Mr. Mitsotakis, and with the shell of the committee of inquiry. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] For you too are receiving loans for the same reason as Mr Plumb. With "air", because you are someone or you were someone and you continue to be, you have a name. Because the property you were supposed to have lodged a guarantee had already been secured for another loan of "KERYKA".
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u461	The property wasn't even fixed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u462	Therefore, ‘air’. From this loan for 11 years you have not even paid half of the euro. And nobody's ever bothered you! You were not taken by the collector companies from morning to night, as they do to any other citizen who owes you! Understood, because you were a surname. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Eleven years later, however, and under the pressure of this committee of inquiry, which did not produce anything else, the bank finally found your phone, Mr Mitsotakis, and then you went into regulation. Even then, however, you have not avoided the temptation of a new scandal, because this is the only way to characterize the 'ballon' arrangement you have made. So you can pay three grand a month by November 2018 and at the end of this period you can either pay the remaining amount, the sixty-nine grand, or renegotiate and new arrangement. So I invite you to go and find together a man, a fellow citizen, who has a housing loan and has gone to setup because he has fallen his incomes because you have cut off his wages and cannot pay the adjustment, the monthly instalment. Ask him how much he increased the total amount he had to pay for, and if the paper he finally signed, gives him the right to go to a new arrangement like you. I say that, ladies and gentlemen, so as not to be fooled here, who is a complex one and who is not. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] To stay in the political party, however, I would like to repeat this: even in this arrangement, you went when the examination took place and noise broke out. And you know what that reminds me of, Mr. Mitsotakis? Another case you have been accused of, for the gift from the SIEMENS company of a telephone centre worth 130 thousand euros. Isn't that right? It's not like that. [[Noise - protests from the New Democracy Wing]] Of course I have a question here: EUR 30 000 a call centre. What was it? Space? I'll let Mr. Pappa know where he started his space service, see if he will. [[Laughing - applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] So, this call centre that they gave you in 2007, you ran to pay it back, not in sixty days when the invoices were written, but only when the prosecutor entered the office of "SIEMENS". You did the same with the case of "KERYKA" Chania. So I wonder, Mr Mitsotakis, what a fuss it would have been if I had such donations, if I would get a loan for my village newspaper and not pay it for eleven years. What a fuss on the websites, the media, the TVs, everywhere! But I'm going through this. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Ladies and gentlemen - and I am sorry to say this - I do not expect the New Democracy or the PASOK to see any constructive attitude in this debate today and I understand why. It's a lot of money. And it's a dirty story to throw it off you with a "we made mistakes, but now we're making reorganization and, okay, we've changed offices." Unlike your cynical confession, which is not enough for your time-consuming responsibilities, the government has lifted the heavy responsibility for the resolution of the political system at a cost. And this examination is not our only initiative in this direction. We changed the composition of the Committee on Budgetary Control of the political parties, strengthening its independence as opposed to what was happening until 2014. We voted for Law No.4339, the broadcasting media law more than ever, despite the adventure we had in the S.H.E., the law is valid and is now the National Broadcasting Council what has to be implemented and proceeded with the immediate competition to put an end to the core of the interlocutory, in other words, television frequencies over the years. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] We have voted in favour of a simple analogue for fair representation of political parties and the end of barren, uncontrolled and uncomplicated bi-partisanism. We have established a Rules of Conduct for Members by qualified decision of Parliament and we are immediately launching a wide-ranging dialogue on the revision of the Constitution, in which the revision of Rule 86 on the responsibility of Ministers is central. At the same time, we are directly committed to a concrete package of measures on the transparency of the parties' transactions with banks, to inform the Audit Committee and the Bank of Greece of any loan contract or any amendment of an existing contract and, in particular, to be informed in writing, the parties' lending should only be carried out by means of a reasoned decision of the board of credit institutions that are lending and in full compliance with banking ethics. Thus, the persons responsible for granting the loan will be identified immediately, not like today when a committee of inquiry is needed to identify these persons. The loan information will be posted on the Internet by the Audit Committee and all citizens will know the terms of the loan. Ladies and gentlemen, I will just say one thing: the country has been going through a difficult time for many years and our people have made sacrifices that go far beyond what is appropriate to them, but are far beyond their tolerance. That is why our Government is not going to do anything about transparency and the defence of public interest. Everything's going to come to light. I can assure you that, with today's debate, 'we have not sprayed, wiped, finished', 'we are not hiding under the carpet'. We're just getting started. The defence of transparency is a matter of honour for democracy, it is a matter of prestige for institutions, for democracy itself. So you can be sure that we will proceed to the end at any cost, no matter how stressful it is. You do have to apologize for a lot. One thing I'm saying: we're not done with this. Now we're starting! The continuity is in the hands of Greek justice.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u463	Thank you very much. Mr. Xydakis has the floor for two minutes on personal grounds, then Mr. Tsakalotos and then the Chief of the New Democracy. Here you go, Mr. Xydakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u464	Mr President, I too would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u465	No, Mrs. Gennamas, there was no staff for you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u466	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u467	I know what's personal. You're not going to submit the procedure to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u468	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u469	You're welcome, Mrs. Gennamas. There wasn't any personal. Please. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u470	The Prime Minister made a personal reference to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u471	Personal reporting shall not constitute personal. We understand very well. Please. Mr. Xydakis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u472	I want to help Mr. Mitsotakis increase his ability to understand the texts and meanings, to make some suggestions friendly about where to understand what propaganda is, what it is... [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u473	Mr President, will this style continue? Who does my colleague think he's talking to?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u474	Mr. Kikilia, are we getting started? Please very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u475	Bring him back to class.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u476	Mr. Kikilia, please. It answers the question raised on a alleged statement. You're very welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u477	Talk about the statement.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u478	The way we're going, we're going to keep going for hours. While it is not a debate on the agenda today, the political leaders asked to precede it. We'll hang up with the political leaders. They are also seven parliamentary representatives, they are two Ministers and they are 20 colleagues to speak while I am here. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Calm down, quiet and a lot of patience today. Mr. Xydakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u479	Mr. Chief of Officer County, so you don't scare yourself and find out what's propaganda or what's ridiculous propaganda, start with the film "The Life of Brian" by Monty Pythons. Every time a damn word is heard, the person who says it is stoned, whoever it is. Stone yourself. You don't understand what you're hearing. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Please! I'm talking to Mr. Mitsotakis. He mentioned me and I'm answering. When also, Mr. Chief of Police Response, if you want to understand the historical depth of a left-elected MEP's agony about where the place goes, start with the Porter report and read what the American President's envoy says in 1947 about the parasitic elite, which seems to be aspiring to continue in our day. If you don't know, we have two excellent historians who serve the Greek state. One of the world's worlds of government. It's George Stathakis. The other is Michael Psalidopoulos, who represents Greece at the International Monetary Fund, in a critical position of Greek public life. They know what American Paul Porter said about the Greek parasitic elite. You are ambitious to represent the same follow-up, those who feared at the expense of...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u480	Mr President, that's enough!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u481	Quiet, please. Mr. Xydakis, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u482	And one last.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u483	You didn't say that? That's the staff!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u484	Please, I'm not answering you. To understand the anguish of the social, the historical Left in these difficult years of the historical trial, I will tell you a word of a great Greek, the greatest Greek historian in life. I don't know if you know. He's a Lefkadite man, called Spyros Asdrahas. Says Spyros Asdrahas that we are a historic people. And what does that mean? It means responsibility before memory, responsibility before the future. That's what we're nervous about. Spyros Asdrahas says - and I am ending this in the hopes of entering the same agony that we have and of understanding - that the citizen of a historic people has the agony of the future, because he knows that we will also live after our death. Here we are talking, thinking and discussing, Mr Mitsotakis, for the future generations, not by our rabies who will be the next prefect in the debt colony called Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u485	Mr President, I would like to speak on the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u486	Please, Mr Javarra, let the debate go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u487	I am impressed that you know that you are in breach of the Rules of Procedure with the previous speaker's personal address to Mr Mitsotakis and you are letting him speak. You know very well that anyone who speaks from the chairs, is addressed to the President of this House and is not allowed to speak personally to a colleague. And you have tolerated it, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u488	Thank you very much for the suggestion, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u489	It's Article 66.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u490	Thank you very much, Mr Javarra, for the reminder. I admit I don't remember. I don't have a problem. Mr Tsakalotes, Minister of Finance, do you want the floor on the subject raised by Mr Mitsotakis' speech?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u491	I do not want the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u492	You don't want to take the floor. Thank you. Mr. Mitsotakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u493	Ladies and gentlemen, I really did not expect that this Chamber would be the day when the elected Prime Minister of the country becomes Mr Vaxebane's vocal loudspeaker. Shame on you, Mr. Tsipras. Shame on you! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You referred to the loans of 'KERYKA'. You hid the fact that Karykas was the only regional newspaper controlled by the Committee of Inquiry. Why is that? Why is that, Mr. Tsipras? Answer me here. There was no other regional newspaper, which was checked.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u494	Be quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u495	Of course you have concealed, Mr. Tsipras, the most essential thing. You have concealed the fact that on the matter... Mr. Famelle, you'll tell him after Mr. Tsipras. Sit down, it's okay. You'll tell him later, don't worry. Bring Mr. Vaxvanis to tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u496	Please! Be quiet! Go on, Mr. Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u497	You hid, Mr. Tsipras, that the issue of "KERYKA" was a conclusion of the Bank of Greece. What does that find say, Mr. Cipra? ‘There was no derogation from the bank’s then credit policy, while the risks were covered in practice, the rent collections, whether or not reduced, were normally carried out’. Don't you know that the loan is fully secured?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u498	Please stop!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u499	Do you not know that of all the cases checked by the Committee of Inquiry, Karykas is the only instrument whose lending is completely covered? Don't you know that? Didn't Mr. Famelos inform you about all this? So you are ashamed, Mr Tsipras, to fall so low in this Chamber. Well, I guess that's...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u500	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u501	Please! Gather up a little, ma'am!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u502	What do you want anyway? I'll do the process in here! Understood? Please. Please. Mr. Mitsotakis, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u503	You consciously concealed the fact that there are warranties that outweigh the amount of borrowing. Half the truth is worse than lying, Mr. Tsipras. And indeed, you must be very frustrated and very concerned about the country's course to get to the point of launching such personal attacks. I'm really sorry. I'm sorry! To say two more things about the rest of you mentioned. You referred in a tough language, Mr Tsipras, to the issue of Mr Psykras. You said that he has villas, secret accounts, that he is in fact the main contributor to the bankruptcy of "DOL" and you may be right, you know, Mr. Tsipras. Why don't you tell me why you met him four times in secret? Didn't you know then? You didn't know them then? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And you don't tell me, Mr. Tsipras, whether or not you confirm your opinion...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u504	People laugh.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u505	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u506	Quiet. Calm down! And do not you, Mr. Chief of Staff, because they are on staff, do not extend to the issue of Pseudomonas, etc. It's none of your business.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u507	Mr President, don't suggest me. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u508	I can suggest you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u509	You're not making any suggestions to me!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u510	Mr. Mitsotakis, not me!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u511	You're not making any suggestions to me!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u512	Mr. Mitsotakis, I'll give you suggestions. Understood?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u513	No suggestions to me!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u514	Really? Don't you take any suggestions from the Bureau? Why not?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u515	Please, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u516	Because you're begging me...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u517	No lessons to me!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u518	No, I'm teaching you, too, if I have to. Understand? Everyone has their role. Please. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u519	Mr. Tsipras, look at me if you're kind. Look at that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u520	Yes, Mr. Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u521	So do you confirm, Mr Tsipras, or not that you have asked Mr Psyharis to replace Mr Metropolis from Mr Mulopoulos? Yes or no? You did it two years later, Mr. Tsipras. And you're talking about complication, and you're not a little embarrassed? Aren't you embarrassed? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And I close with an issue that you referred to about polling. You left a suggestion that because we had large bank loans and close relations with polling companies, we had changes in the results of the polls at the last minute, which did not go hand in hand with the final election result. Now that we can't afford to give the polls, why do they show us fifteen points ahead, Mr. Tsipras?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u522	Madam Gennamata, you have the floor for two minutes, so that the Prime Minister will then take it into account in its entirety and close this vaccine cycle that has been created.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u523	Thank you, Mr President. Unfortunately, we have been following a debate that the Prime Minister himself took on board today. You have had a debate today as if not ten months before in the discussion, as if so many Members did not work, as if all these Minutes were not written, as if we were starting from scratch. I got one thing. Stand by, Prime Minister, for a defeated conspiracy again. And the only thing you have left is to stand poison. You came here and told us again that you arrested the forty years of post-multiplanting is responsible for the crisis and the memorials. And because, you know, a Minister of yours was previously placed and the Greek people say that whoever has the fly smells, I never referred to any of your Minister's names. If, however, the Minister who was placed feels responsible for limiting investigations for this period of 2004-2009, then there is a serious problem, Prime Minister. And I repeat: there would have been no need for the memorials if the New Democracy disaster had not taken precedence from 2004 to 2009, the one that Mr Mitsotakis has covered with voice and you have this strange and specific flirting. Finally, seven years and not a single word on your side. Shame! Shame on you! And I come to what you said. You have asked for our opinion, and if we have anything to put forward creative about the issues of the instruments and the red loans of businesses. Since this morning I have made public intervention and have asked for a intergroup committee, because these issues, Prime Minister, must be resolved by means of institutions above the table, collectively, with the effort of all the parties in this House - at least - of the democratic at least - and not at secret meetings and with computers. So you only have to respond to my speech and set up a intergroup committee tomorrow morning to save jobs in the media, but also in the Greek businesses that are currently deadlocked. And I close with what you said about PASOK's finances. I would refer you to the apostomatic responses given by Nikos Salayannis, which your MPs have forged in order to come out of this event and you should say something about it in your position, because I have caused you to do so. It is at least nonsense to say political in this Chamber that there are 15,000,000 right now in walls or in strange PASOK safes and drawers, and it is not an accounting find, which the sworn accountants are saying. With regard to what you said about our debts, Prime Minister, you said that we owe EUR 200,000 to the banks and do not serve them and we are not interested. We're very decent. We do not owe EUR 200,000, we owe EUR 100,000, and we consider it to be a great burden. We are serving as much as we can, and I recommend that you close, Prime Minister, do not worry about our own, because we are going to be strong every day and we will be in a position to meet our obligations as we should. Begin worrying about your own obligations, because you return to where you really belong. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u524	Thank you. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u525	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Mitsotakis, I understand your irritation. However, I would like to go back to a point which you must answer at some point, but the Greek people too must draw their conclusions. And it is not - if you want - a downgrading of the level of the debate to say in this Chamber at last 'the figs and vessels'. Because around us you will see thousands of our fellow citizens who have been tortured by the banks, who have seen their properties collapse, close their loans, fall and otherwise treated. So I'm coming to the truck. I'll just give you dates. On 19.4.2016, the Committee of Inquiry was set up and set up. On 22-4-2016, at random three days later, 11 years later, Piraeus Bank decides to terminate the loan agreement of the company under the name “KERYX”. On 12-7-2016 the theme of "KERYKA" appears at the meeting of the Committee of Inquiry, during the examination of the Chief Executive Officer of Piraeus Bank and following a question from the Deputy of SYRIZA Mr Santorini. On 18-10-2106 the President of the Commission, Mr Famelos, sends a letter to Piraeus Bank requesting the delivery by 10/11 at the latest of the correspondence.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u526	He's demanding!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u527	Yeah, he's on request. That's what you got. Okay. You are right to criticise the essentials, but give us no answer to what we have been told. Mr Famelos therefore sends a letter on 18/10, when he asks for the bank's relevant correspondence to the representatives of the company by 10/11 at the latest. Fifteen days after Mr Famelos's letter, the loan's complaint is served, i.e. 2-11-2016, and it is possible to adjust the debt. And I ask you, Mr Mitsotakis: What other fellow citizen would have the possibility of such a regulation? And, secondly, is it possible for eleven years to have forgotten you those who every day rang our ordinary citizens' phones three and four times and remember your phone only when the committee of inquiry raised this big issue? [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] You said: 'The only regional enterprise is?'. If you have any more, let's bring them in. Is that what you're talking about? If there are any other regional newspapers or regional publications that have such issues, you can bring them to us. That's not an answer. And anyway, because you like to open up other issues - I have not mentioned this - and because we are not talking about it in our belly, when we are putting matters, we have the report of the Bank of Greece's special investigation of 29-11-2016, where it says - we are not talking about it, the Committee of Inquiry says it - that EUR 554 000 was, at least, not directed to the construction for which the loan was granted, without it being known where it went, as the report says. Furthermore, because, apparently, this company did not only have this loan, but also had another loan of EUR 2.150,000, I am rereading you from the Bank of Greece: "The total loan of "Karyx SA" from the Panghretia Cooperative Bank amounted to EUR 225 000". The Bank of Greece’s special enquiry report therefore notes that, for this loan, the assessment and monitoring procedures were at least a long way from normal banking practice, while it considers that it is inappropriate, from a banking point of view, both the ineffective monitoring of disbursement due to the acceptance of the early disbursement and the fact that a significant part of the loan was obviously not directed to the purpose for which it was granted. What else can we say, Mr. Mitsotakis? Are we throwing the level of the conversation? Imagine, if such matters were to exist not in the President of the party, but in a mere MP, what would you have done. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] So if you want to judge me for Mr Psykhi and for anyone else, judge and compare whether I from the position of Prime Minister or any member of the government has served, favoured, it has brought gratifying last minute amendments to any of these Members. That's a complication. It's not a complication if we see someone. It is a complex matter if we favour someone to favour us with their headlines, which you have brought to us all the time here at the Step of the House. I'll tell you about the polls. You know, in the end you might stay with the polls in your hand. Don't be too happy. Because in the end, they shave the groom and without the hotel owner, don't account for yourself. Because hotelier is the Greek people and not the pollsters you have taken and for your close colleagues. So I would like to close by saying to Mrs Gennamas, who I have heard, that you have to tell us at least something about these two things I am going to tell you: what have you done with all this money? Give an explanation to the Greek people. What did you do with that money? I don't know if Mrs. Gennimata has already done a haircut and she says it's not 200, but 100, but in any case 100, it's too much! But what did you do with all this money along with the huge funding from state subsidies? And we do not take into account all the scandals of 'SIEMENS', 'NOVARTIS'. We are not counting on this, but on the institutional money you received from loans - money paid today by Greek taxpayers to banks - and the money from state subsidies. And the second question. Are you concerned - I honestly tell you - whether you will ever pay them back? The last Greek businessman has suffered enormous damage. Some people have jumped off their balconies, some have seen their livelihood being destroyed, thousands of padlocks are in. You're the one who took that money. Are you concerned about ever returning them? Is there any way you can return them? You are also vindicating to come and save us sometime, you who have led us to the destruction. Will you answer that? Do you consider it reasonable to repay these loans if it is granted - which is not currently granted the entire grant to the banks - 60%? You keep getting money. We, you know, Mr Mitsotakis, all SYRIZA MPs and ministers give 40% of our parliamentary compensation, in addition to 20% provided by the law - if you signed - so that our party can survive, pay his bills, pay his newspaper's loans. And you have already accused us of paying the newspaper's loans. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] You, your MPs, will put your hand in the pocket to pay back what you took from the Greek people, or will they also be like "KERYKA" Chania? Give me an answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u528	Mr Mitsotakis has the floor for two minutes for "KERYKA".
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u529	I imagine, Mr Tsipras, that you are not suggesting that we should trim the loans, as you have done. Isn't that right? Is that what you're suggesting? Because you're the only party in which you've been tired of loans. Let's not forget that. No other party has wasted its loans. We are making a very important effort to restructure the New Democracy. We take full responsibility for our responsibilities. We have done our self-criticism and we are slowly paying off our loans, Mr Tsipras.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u530	Please, be quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u531	And we do not accept from you, who, I repeat, are the only party that has cut off its loans twice - and if you do not know that, Mr Tsipras, let your partners know - suggestions about our consistency. Secondly, you have not answered Mr Mulopoulos's question. Did you ask Mr. Psyfaris to replace Mr. Metropoulou with Mr. Mulopoulos, yes or no? And when the job broke, then you were across the street and you started blackmailing Mr. Psycharis? And since you've spoken of a complication, I'll tell you what's a complication. Complication, Mr. Papa and Mr. Tsipras, is to try to give permission to Mr. Kalogritsa, who you financed with loans from the Bank of Attica to get permission to play your own game. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And now also publish him in Mr Vaxebane's newspaper, to perform contracts for your political opponents. That's a complication. This is your argument, Mr. Tsipras. Mr. Kalogritsa and all those who were looking forward to getting permission for your day so that you could check the midday game. Finally, I would like to inform you about the issue of Karykas, because I fear that you do not know them. KERYKAS has paid more than 500,000 euros in interest as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u532	Be quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u533	I understand that the fact that this loan is completely assured is disturbing to you. Not a single euro has been lost by the bank and not a single euro has been lost by a Greek taxpayer, Mr Tsipras. That's enough with that story. Can I tell you one more thing? If you think, gentlemen, that you can take us to elections on the issue of "KERYKA" and "SIEMENS", come to elections, not to forget that in the first half of 2015 you dissolved the country. Did you cost us 86 billion dollars and teach us lessons? So come on, Mr. Tsipras, let's go to elections, see if the polls can be confirmed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u534	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to close this cycle. Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u535	This cycle will indeed be closed, Mr President, because when I discuss with Mr Mitsotakis on interactive issues, I have a feeling that I am coming here to steal churches and I do not want to do so. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] So, Mr. Mitsotakis, to finish this corn, if you think we're going to let you move our fingers, you, who have been bankrupt forty years, you, who have created this triangle of interlocutory, that you have received loans in loan and unscrupulously, when the Greek people have paid your own sins, are wrong. Don't be so intimidated for elections. The elections will take place on time. And when the elections are held, you will find, Mr. Mitsotakis, that keeping a wicked attitude towards Greece, the Greek people and the Greek society by asking the lenders to hold defence so that you can come back to the positions of power to complete the damage you have done is not popular position and attitude. You'll pay this option. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] And one last thing: Mr Mitsotakis, you are constantly referring to Mr Psykhi. So much more so you trusted him and believed him, so you kept coming to the House by posting his newspapers, his headlines, his editorial, all the smart ones - because he's a very good columnist otherwise - his lines. But don't trust everything he tells you. Because he has to apologise to Greek justice for the millions that he intercepted through bank lending, for the things he did not say and ultimately for the fact that he led a historic complex to the situation in which he is today. So if you want to judge for me, I repeat, judge me whether or not I favored all these people to whom you refer. All the rest, which you constantly bring back here, is unfortunately a level of gossip, of morning TV and, indeed, of third-class stations, which, until first and foremost, did not pay euros so that they could broadcast on public frequency. And I'm closing. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not opening up the issue of the triangle of interlocutory, sea-savings, the great responsibility of the political system because we have no avengement or revancism, but because there is a deep, if you want, demand that all Greek citizens come out to light and give justice. Not to set up special courts. It is justice that will blame it if it judges and when it judges and how it can judge, because we trust it. That is why we are not the ones who will point to justice. We're giving the evidence to see and judge. However, Mr Mitsotakis, do not think that your names of the last few years you have governed the country, charging the Greek people and failing the Greek economy, you will be able to forget and you will come here and the finger will come to save the country, because we are the ones who have made the conflict. Forget that. The Greek people will judge you as we are all judged.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u536	Thank you. The floor is held by the Chief of Independent Greeks and Minister of Defence Mr. Panagiotis Kammenos.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u537	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am perhaps the oldest in this Chamber since 1992, and I have followed all the committees of inquiry. As I have done in the past, despite my obligations, I have carefully read the minutes of this committee of inquiry. Although this committee of inquiry did not have political responsibilities - the success or not of a committee of inquiry has been judged in the past - I would like to say that this committee of inquiry may be one of the most successful committees of inquiry set up in the Greek Parliament. And that's why? Because, firstly, from the minutes of the committee of inquiry and from the statements of those who tabled tomorrow morning, after the end of the debate, there should be fifteen prosecutors, the prosecutor of money laundering, the prosecutor of corruption, the prosecutor of evidence and statements and begin criminal prosecutions and criminal investigations. Things have been said and recorded, which we talked about in the air, but they have never had the legal strength that a statement has before a committee of inquiry. So I expect them to do it. And if some people think that after what has been said, by the end of the night this story ends, they make a big mistake. They are making a very big mistake, because what this committee of inquiry has done is actually to consider the truth of post-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-municipality. What's the truth of Postpopulation? The truth of the postmultiple is that from 1996 to 2014 officially, i.e. through grants and bank loans for unpaid, parties were given to manage, in the two major parties, 1.3 billion euros. If anyone puts in the bank's adverts, which were used to finance the media by the parties of power, if it adds the 'black' of the CCTB, the 'black' of the Agricultural Bank, the 'black' of the SIEMENS, you will see that we are talking about many billions of euros, which were actually driven by politics - other official and other informally - into the media, which were not the media of the Greek people, but the means of controlling the political game. Others were as "sadanets" to perform political opponents, but as a means to cover up scandals, but as a means of manipulating public opinion, to lead Greece to bankruptcy and some to confiscate the wealth of the Greeks. That's what this committee of inquiry did. How abundant money, then! Abundant money, which needs to be looked at where it is and, as I said before, we are not done here. Ladies and gentlemen, the second, which arises from this committee of inquiry and I think it is very important, is what was said during the examination of the Governor of the Bank of Greece, Mr Stournara. What did Mr Stournaras say? That it is actually coming back to an investigation - and I ask the Minister for Justice to do so - the Kaloudi conclusion. The Kaloudis conclusion is this conclusion, which was delivered by Prosecutor Kaloudis on March 15, 2013, awaiting approval for the exercise of felony persecution until April 18, when the amendment to development law 4146/2013 was suddenly introduced, according to which the bankers are relieved of these financings granted illegally in the period 2000-2011 with the sole guarantee of state subsidies by 2020, and thus thought it would enter the drawer of the finding - fire. So it comes during his statement by the Governor of the Bank of Greece, at the invitation of the MPs, and there is a debate on the amendment by Mr Tzoumanis of the New Democracy, Mr Christoyannis and Mr Stamenitis, who gave immunity to the bank officials. Mr Stournaras said: 'It refers to legal persons governed by public law and private legal persons belonging to the General Government'. The parties, add Mr Stournaras, "do not belong to the General Government". And that's how the way to restart the finding opens. What does this amendment mean? This amendment of 2013, ladies and gentlemen, is the point where Antonis Samaras, having the Presidency of the New Democracy, has turned New Democracy, a party of authorities until then of Constantine Karamanlis, to defend the PASOK of George Papandreou, Costas Simitis and then Evangelos Venizelos. In order for the Greek people to understand them more simply, it is the moment that they are making them tiles, it is the time that the Prosecutor of the Bank of Greece officially takes them "with the sprout on their back" and within one night they come to vote for this famous amendment, which the Governor of the Bank of Greece tells us in the committee of inquiry today, that it is not about the parties. Minister on Justice, I formally ask you to consider the legal strength of what the Governor of the Bank of Greece said and to initiate immediately the prosecutions concerning the Kaloudi finding.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u538	There is such a request, Mr President, in the conclusion.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u539	I am very pleased about that. So here we have the second important result, which has emerged from the discussion of this committee of inquiry. Third matter. We have the issue, which arises from criminal responsibilities, particularly the media, on what they have submitted, on what has been found in the committee's conclusion. We're talking with names in general. I am going to speak with names specifically and prove that the Authority has a duty on Money Laundering and the Prosecutor of Corruption, which I formally request by means of the Step of Parliament, to intervene tomorrow in a series of cases. Case 1: 'Parapolistics'. Mr Panagiotis Mitakis asks: 'As well, are you repeated in the statement of where you came from?' Reply, Ioannis Kourtakis: "They are included in all statements of the place you were presenting and I am tabling them." Panagiotis Mitatakis: "Remember the amount that you funded the newspaper?" Ioannis Kourtakis: "The total amount I had given the company is about 1,400,000 euros". Panagiotis Mitaris: "They are from personal property and from work of eighteen years, as you said before?" Martyr: “Exactly. When I published the newspaper, I worked in seven media." Tell me a MP, a minister, a Prime Minister, a publisher who has succeeded in these years of work, with the wages in the newspapers, to put aside EUR 1,400,000. There's not one! Not even one! To go a little further on what comes and decides on "PARAPOLITICA" the conclusion of the parliamentary committee. It turns out that in February 2014 the EUR 800,000 loan with repayment until 2019 at a dose of EUR 13,350, secured by traffic revenues and a measured forward deposit cover of USD 1,2 million. The forward account belongs to an offshore company of interest to a particular shipowner. November 2014: Remove distribution from circulation due to the existence of the cash cover from the shipowner’s account, offshore. December 2014: Remove the coverage from the forward account at the request of offshore, due to its imminent introduction into a foreign Exchange from 1-1-2015, with a change in the terms of the loan service. The EIB accepts part of the repayment of the loan from any future advertising expenditure in the bank to the ‘PARAPOLICA’. These are the ones that so far arise from the issuer's deposit, according to the committee's conclusion. But come on where there are some other details. Accidentally, this publisher happens to be an employee and director of the company "METRORAMA EDUCATION' EDUCATION", based in Captain Lahana Street 53-55, and I submit a document from the Piraeus Chamber of Commerce and Industry - and, until today, a partner who talks with the brain of the 'Noor 1' drug case, allegedly the owner of this company. [[At this point, the Minister of National Defence - President of the Independent Greeks Mr Panos Kammenos presents for the record the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In other words, the gentleman who has been dealt with here with 1,400 at the moment we are talking about, to date, and as is apparent from the Official Journal of the Government, which I am presenting, is the man who has been an official and specifically director and manager of the company, who has been the head of drug trafficking, who has bought this newspaper from today's MEP. [[At this point, the Minister of National Defence - President of the Independent Greeks Mr Panos Kammenos presents for the record the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So you realise that such a case is a matter for which the Authority should already be in charge of money laundering within their offices, and that witnesses at risk should already be protected. Because, Minister of Justice, after I had been threatened, after devouring me, my wife, my mother-in-law, took over my fifteen-year-old son, and said he was a terrorist and accomplice of Rupa! The fifteen-year-old, who hasn't left. Until Callithea she's gone and she's never been up. He's a kid who wants to go to school and forbid him to go abroad, he's going to sludge him, because he likes it. And when we go to court, like last time, she's scared. Tomorrow we have the second repetition. His lawyer is Mr. Vorides of the New Democracy. It's the same, Mr. President, who took money from CEDEFOP under different names. "PARA A MEP": 190,000 euros. ‘HEALTH PRO’: in the name of Gennos, 177,000 euros. "PATI & PIPERI": 177,000 euros. Watch out. ‘METRORAMA’: Aimilios Cotsonis from CERN 87,000 euros. The drug dealer was paid by the CDC for the means he had. [[At this point, the Minister of National Defence - President of the Independent Greeks Mr Panos Kammenos presents for the record the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] He is the same who, after being unfairly attacked by the wife of the Minister of Justice - to see that they are not inhibited anywhere - the next day he made a headline, not even in Colombia. Kourtakis for Kontonis: "Let this particular dirt in the government remain." [[At this point, the Minister of National Defence - President of the Independent Greeks Mr Panos Kammenos presents for the record the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] These are the forty-five press press, which if the prosecutors don't pick up tomorrow morning to investigate, we'll have a responsibility. We will be responsible as government, ladies and gentlemen, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, for the majority. Because this work continues - the same job. Tomorrow he'll go to court and say-- he says-- he's my other son, who's been studying the kid in America five years and is looking for a job now. And he's gonna come on a charge because he likes Mr. Kurtakis, that he's a friend of Paula Rupa and a terrorist! You are aware of the seriousness of this matter, ladies and gentlemen, because this bullying has been suffered by many in this Chamber. Some people couldn't stand it. Some have left this Chamber without even being able to be vindicated. So did the rest of us, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Psyracy's complex did the same. Mr. Psychair's band is what I personally killed my father with headlines. He humiliated a man of eighty-six years old, a businessman who had never been accused, supposedly had men and ofshore. The man made cancer. Controls of the IORP have been carried out. He went out innocent. The story's over. But he hanged him in the handkerchiefs. And he hanged him in the handkerchiefs, because he had certain guns, which they were doing. He said the Prime Minister earlier to look for the "whereabouts". Mr President of the Greek Parliament, I request that this public meeting open up the reporter, Mr Papachristos, to see whether it is true that he has cash of 2,300 and up to 3 million of the various shares, again the one from his work as Mr Kurtakis, with a house in Lero, with a house in Yannina! Open the "outside you" and see what happens with the current director of "Youth", who has a forty meters taller and goes for a walk with two Filipinos, a captain and a engineer. And he from his job has these? So well, did they pay him? When will we allow the forty-five to carry out democracy? This is where the check starts. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have no time to speak to the parties. I will say, however, that because they were carrying out, executing and will have to stop carrying out, it does not mean that there are no honest journalists who pay it, as do the workers in the press. I know cases of people with whom I colluded politically. I shall refer to the late Kakaunakis who actually left the fish. He was an editor. He was a radio producer. He was a political opponent. We were killed. His tonsils, Psycharis ate them and guaranteed them with some basement in Kallithea, Gigifis, to get 150 million euros, the guy who came here told us he was taking "air". He confessed to receiving loans with "air". In a favored country they would have grabbed him through the handcuffed examination. It's a crime. It's a crime. It is the same who, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, has put Mr Karamanlis headlines as 'Dolly', as a cloning product. Of course, when the interlocutory measure came, Mr Samaras, Mr. Psycharis called on him in order, as he wrote at the time, that his son should enter as a member of the New Democracy, as he was elected. That is why, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, you have a responsibility. Because the New Democracy must not be the one who insulted and fought Kostas Karamanlis, because Samaras chose to do so with Papandreou. Because with Papandreou he found them. And he found them to put them aside. I believe now that you've taken Mr. George Papandreou back, he'll bring the 200 grand to the gym. That was good for PASOK. Let's see.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u540	You've filed a lawsuit. He's been to the D.A.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u541	For the gym? Oh, no. For the gym, Venizelos sued. Come on, you're fucked. Venizelos sued the gym. And not only did Venizelos sue for the gym, but Venizelos sued and asked for a check in PASOK for who ate them. I am therefore reading, because Mrs Gennamas mentioned earlier, the official practice of the juror on 15 December 2015, Michael Red of Andreas, the auditor of KPMG. Question: 'Did physical transport and maintenance in the balance fund comply with prudent financial management rules for two consecutive years at the level of 15 million? The Court of Auditors' answer is: "Governmentally not, because this entails a loss of interest and, on the other hand, a risk of loss and theft." ‘Has you been shown to be documented where the recital on the channelling of the amount to specific expenditure was provided to you?’ The auditor's reply, Mr Red, was not given an explanation of the existence of the balance or the use of part of it for specific expenditure. Fifteen million of the one billion four hundred million officials - and we do not know how many officials - are those who circulated in bags that controlled the political life of the country. Now, of course, it seems Mr. Theodorikos works for free in New Democracy. We'll see about that later, because at some point there's to be a committee of inquiry for all those polling companies that have evilly fallen out. Ten units gave the referendum in favour of 'yes'. The Independent Greeks over 1.5% have never taken. Now we get to 2.4%. Even when we got 11%, we were under the bottom. Once, at least I'll open a newspaper and see that he has a 3% or 4% of us! I've never seen it. Be good for Theodorikos! Kaminaris Vasilis Georgios, an economist, an auditor of the company ‘Ernst & Young’: ‘There were working costs and a performance of hundreds of thousands of euros for PASOK, without any documentary evidence, in the years 2002-2011. Expenditure was authorised by the same person, the cashier and payments, which is a significant weakness of the internal control and monitoring system. We also found that there were no service suppliers contracts, although there was a large volume of trade with them. There were payments to natural persons only on lists, without being supported by documentary evidence, because of student elections." They were paying the Cash student election too. The 15 million left. And it continues: "The sums were small, of EUR 200-300, but totalling EUR 200 million. In fact, some of these amounts were deposited in bank accounts.’ In any case, this constitutes tax violations. And I ask colleagues in PASOK: Mr. Venizelos was suing. Now that you've taken George back, what are you going to do? You're going to kill each other? You need to find a solution. Or one of them is to blame, and he has to bring back the money, or the other decides to cover it. Anyway, whoever stays homeless New Democracy follows the doctrine of Samaras, is ready to absorb you. Well, we don't. Ladies and gentlemen, this government has strong cohesion and will never break until the Greek people decide, because neither Alexis Tridras, nor any of SYRIZA, nor the Independent Greeks who have not received a loan of EUR 1, nor the MPs, nor our executives are part of this post-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-municipal. But there is an obligation here. There is an obligation to execute the mandate of the Greek people. All those who have commanded the Greek people to be brought back to justice and to bring the stolen ones back must bring them back as soon as possible! [[Applause from the wings of ANEL and SYRIZA]] And if some people in the state mechanism stop it, we have an obligation to report them. If you want, when someone opens their mouths and sees the statements for example Mr. Provopoulou, if he sees the statements of Stournara in relation to what happened with T3 and T10 and combines them with cases previously reported by Vasso Papandreou, he will see that the conflict does not stop only here. The complex has deep roots in Europe. And if some people do not want this government and are at the moment fighting a government that did what they promised, with a heavy tribute to the Greek people, it is because they know well that we are not going to receive underwaters that are old, we are not going to sign conventions that are blackmailing us to sign to be the good kids. We will resist, because we have the people's mandate in a country that gave birth to democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u542	Mr Leventis, President of the Centroon Union, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u543	To the President of the Government, the members of the Ministerial Council, Mr. and ladies and gentlemen, my good evening. What I brought here is not a speech to read it. It's some attachments I'm going to look into in the Minutes. In 2011, a topical question was raised by Mrs Bakoyannis. He was a member of the Democratic Alliance. That's what the party was called. And a dialogue followed and Mrs Bakoyannis then accused New Democracy of having received EUR 120 million by then, PASOK EUR 114 million. It is a question for Mrs Bakoyannis, a sister, I think, of Mr Mitsotakis. She's a sister, isn't she? Yeah. Then Mrs Bakoyannis turned against the New Democracy. Interestingly, that's not what it was, because then it was taken a different attitude and she was shooting. The answer is given in the context of the debate by some, such as Mr Emmanuel Kefaloyannis. He answered Emmanuel Kefaloyannis - I think he is a Member of the European Parliament now - 'It was not Marudas. We'll find it along the way who it was. So Mr. Lebanon. Since you know it and you remember it and you don't want to help me, I tell you. So, from New Democracy and Mr Lebanese from PASOK, they visited the then Minister of State, Mr. Yorgakis, and asked him, because they refused to sign with their personal guarantees, to be able to grant the parties a grant from future party revenues. That's the reality. And if this is the problem of the Democratic Alliance today, I think that this problem is too late' - it says - and so on. This testifies that Mr Pylarinios from New Democracy and Mr Lebanese addressed the Minister and asked him to obtain loans. It's Mr. Emmanuel Kefaliannis' speech. I'll get her to the Minutes. However, I would also like to say something about SYRIZA, because here there is quite an interesting speech from Mr Mulopoulos - a minute to look, because Mulopoulos is a person of the days - who says a few things that he has copied from the Centroon Union. It says in a few words that the Members must be reduced, that the Member's wages should go in the middle. It's a copy. I'll find them here in the Minutes and you'll find them quietly. So Mr. Mulopoulos says. I read the speech of the Member, Mr. Vassiliou, "SYRIZA has proposed a change of law and has proposed other things, such as the abolition of the parliamentary pension...". It's the Centro Association's program, Mr. Tsipras. Mr. Mulopoulos presided over me in some things. It calls for the abolition of the parliamentary pension. They are about eight hundred former MPs who are retired.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u544	It's gone.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u545	For the old ones? No, the old people keep it. Do you not know that before 2012 they maintain? I think Mr Mulopoulos says abolishing not young people, but everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u546	Go ahead, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u547	It also calls for the reduction of Members' salaries to half. In practical terms, I read from the House. It also proposes abolishing the compensation for committees and changing the law on the liability of ministers. You've been running for two years. Why didn't you do this since he was in SYRIZA's program? I am speaking in the Minutes and the question concerning Mrs Bakoyannis, but also the answers. [[Mr Vassilis Leventis, President of the Union of Centres Mr Vassilis Leventis presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I mean, SYRIZA had five right positions, which he forgot. That's what I can see. Why was Mulopoulos your MEP then, wasn't he? Unless he did, and he didn't have the approval of the rest. Or unless someone grows up, as a party, I mean, demolished and forgets roots. That's a possibility, too. We'll see about that, it's all the time. If the people allow you to keep up, because everything is in politics. 'Great men have been bankrupt and frustrated!'. That applies to politics. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over by Z' Vice-President SYRIDON LYKOURIS]] But you saw that Mrs Bakoyannis had also turned against the New Democracy on loans, as Head of the Democratic Alliance. I tabled the question for the Minutes to be distributed to all Members. I want to say a few words about polling companies. For the polling companies, it makes no sense to conduct an examination. For the parties, too, it became an examination. Will the parties stop taking them? If you believe these things, it's funny. The poll companies need another thing. An independent authority, such as the PSE, before announcing the outcome of each poll, is to submit all the information, ballots, telephones, surveys, etc. and communications specialists investigate whether the data is true. That's what it takes. And then write "CATHMERINA", " THE NEWS", "NATION" or the channels say the result of the poll. The examination you carried out for the parties, from what I understand, concluded that the "KERYX" of Chania is the great complication and the offshore of "AYIS". From the outset, when I was told that it would be examined, I said, "Who is the object? It will end up in fiasco!'. When we do examination, and in the end there's nothing coming up, the people know what the conclusion is? That we are mocking each other and all the people together in this Chamber. What did you expect? These loans which the Prime Minister, PASOK, New Democracy, said, were known. Is there any chance that the banks and the Greek people will get it back? There's no way! Four hundred years, he says, he wants PASOK and eighty-eight years New Democracy. So we're talking about the peninsula when there's PASOK, SYRIZA or Centro Association after two centuries. That's what we're talking about. Well, you've examined her obviously for a misunderstanding of society, that we're looking for something. What are we looking for here? After he got out of the law not to take any more loans. At least in a Dinopoulou law, I think at the end of 2014, loans were forbidden. So we're covered by the acquisition of new loans. Is there any chance that the old will return? So, what was the purpose of the examination? Can we send some people to jail? Since those who brought the amendment tabled in 2013 obviously wanted to save the bankers and through banking to get away with the politically involved with the moral automobile. Nor did the committee consider it to be the rapporteurs, the Minister who accepted the amendment. An amendment was adopted in 2013, with which bankers were acquitted. With bank acquittals, the moral automobiles of politicians go for a walk. The committee has not been responsible for these people who have gone through this amendment. And Stournaras asked who covered this amendment and said 'I don't know, I'm not a legal person'. That's what he said. So, the "child, youth on the tiles" was done in here. We were making fun of each other. What will the historian say about this examination? What has satisfied, what has this examination cured? Is something healed? So don't waste our time. The other thing that I hear from some wings is 'to save the Doll'. They say to save rather bands. He also said the Prime Minister "to make an effort to save...". The bands have some debts. Tini, how do you think the rescue should take place? Obviously, the Greek people should pay the debts. Isn't that right? Why is there a chance for a person to pay 300 million for a "doll" to get an investor? I understand finding a man to give 20.30 million, but for the rest, for the big amount, is there any chance he'll be found? So, when we say to save the complexes, we mean transferring them to the permanent weed - the Greek people - the burden, that is, which we did not do in 'PALCO', we did not do so much because there have been a million and a half unemployed in the private sector. I believe that there are hundreds of similar cases of 'dollar'. To be saved because it's the press? So, to save the workers' positions? Are the newspapers necessary for the functioning of democracy? I do not know what criterion the Prime Minister said that it is good to find a formula to be saved. Why this formula, since there are such possibilities, do we not use it for so many other bankruptcy cases, where workers are also staying on the road? So what kind of golden egg is there, so we can all hurry to save this thing? I didn't get it. Honestly, how, in what way does the House give so many millions - over 100 million - each year for the Congregation of Music? Doesn't it give for there? It's great the Concert Hall. It's great, we didn't say it wasn't great. Is it right to give more than 100 million from the Greek people every year, because there is a deficit? Is it nice to hear that from the Greek people? They once said "the wrote "THA" and "THA" was once a serious newspaper. But we implied they were coming out. If they don't come out, can we give the Greek people money? Tomorrow he's gonna start coming in, obviously, another newspaper. Should we go there and satisfy the rescue program? Does the Greek economy have such potential, or is there anything special? I - I'm sorry - do not understand that particularity. As I did not understand why we were investigating the loans, so I do not understand what the reason for saving a band is, because other newspapers have gone bankrupt and others will perhaps go bankrupt under the crisis. We're going to go there to make the same plan, or is this newspaper history, it's got the bat's bottle - I know, it's something - and we all have to hurry? And I repeat that I appreciate the newspaper and I regret that this newspaper is in danger. It's not that I was happy - to God! - even though my whole life was always handwriting me up, my handwriting was coming down. I never had no support, I never had, not to say the word. And when I entered the House, comments were written that I wrongly entered, I entered as a prophet. They went to make a fool of the election. They'll see it when 4% of the Centro Association becomes 8%, 9% next time. Then I want to see what they're gonna write. Of course, there may be no one to write it, but in any case. I would like to say a few words to you, then, Prime Minister, because I do not know if I will see you before - if it is done - the evaluation, unless for you the 'eat' weeks is something, a hobby. Mr. Xydakis protested about the conversation he was told of. I'll tell you the truth. Mr Xydakis expressed himself and said that we have other solutions - I do not know how he said it - that is, outside the euro. In an hour you're negotiating, is it good to hear ministers and question the country's course? It's not a good thing. You should at least have brought him back to class. He made a denial in which he insisted that talking about plan b is very reasonable to him. And it's necessary, he says. I believe that such persons are not useful to you and are very damaging. You must never allow - not just now that you are negotiating - if you are a party of Europe - unless you are a party of 'block everything and what it wants', questioning the country's strategic course, because it is a great deal of damage to the negotiation. You also say 'not one euro'. I suspect that you are thinking of signing all the measures in Brussels which are normal - pensions, work and everything - and of coming to Parliament to pass only one super-clock without mentioning one measure. If you have such a programme, if you have such a plan, that is to say, in Brussels, we have a supercutter that will not be used, but if we all have to, here we are, it is a tactical one and, please, cancel it. If that is what you say, if such a vote is taken, you are also very underestimated by the judgment of your own Members, some of whom I consider to be personal and should not be so underestimated. It is a very critical time, Mr Tsipras, to say 'we will succeed' and 'we will not go through a single measure' and 'Europe will endure'. You have said this in the past and you have said it just as narrow in the voice and at the end you were disappointed and 'you have packed it up'. When a negotiation takes place, I would prefer you to be silent and I would like you to inform the leaders of the rest of the parties, because what you are going to sign will not only be paid by your followers or your MPs, will all the Greek people and the followers of the other parties. With respect to the Greek people, then, you must keep in mind how things are evolving, all the evidence to the political leaders. You have a duty, if you want the basic consensus, even the consent of saying 'good morning' and 'good evening'. If you are using us all in this Chamber, your reputation will not remain well when you leave the Maximos Mansion. That's what I have to say. It's too dangerous to happen. I'll tell you something. I have one clue that the IMF is asking for a maximum of EUR 1,200 mixed pension. Didn't you know this, Mr. Tsipras, that he's asking for a maximum pension of EUR 1,200? How do we tell the judge who takes EUR 2,600, 'Take EUR 900 in the pocket'? How are we gonna say it? And he hides that and Mitsotakis who can't even know it. Sit here and wrinkle for offshore of "AGE" and "KEYKA" Chania and pension here will be a nightmare in the next period and people will be chasing us to hide this most serious element. The pensions will be cut off. The only way to save some pensions is to invest. In order for investment to come, however, there must be a government of two hundred forty. I've been told that. There's no way with a hundred fifty two and a hundred fifty three. That's why I'm telling Mr. Mitsotakis that he's wrongly asking for elections. What about elections and winning them and making a government with Mrs. Genemas who is the only one I can imagine who can give him a vote? I would be very difficult for a man who had distanced himself from the Centre Union to vote. Does Mr Kegeroglu make sense, but how did you then vote for the enhanced one? Mr. Kegeroglu, what's he doing for a youth in the tiles? Mr. Mitsotakis' government will do as well with a hundred fifty-two. Can you imagine that this is what's going to bring investments? He will simply satisfy the authority that he also became Prime Minister. But he'll have the known luck, too. He'll sit four, five months and collapse. We will go to an election that will then be with zero bonuses, because it will not have been able to change the electoral law, as it says, in the first week, with two hundred. Where will he find them? So there will be elections very soon, with zero bonuses, and then you'll see the universal thing about Leventis that the needle is stuck. The needle won't stick, it'll just be logical when there's a universal government, gentlemen. We will, unfortunately, move from this cycle until we are done with Mr Tsipras and you with a five-month, semester, because the longer the time credit goes down. Samaras spent two years, another two years, Giorgakis and Tsipras. You, the right, you won't have time. You'll do five to six months, because when the people see that you're putting taxes and cutting wages and pensions, they won't show the patience you think. And then we're going to an election with zero bonuses, and then every rascal will go to his counter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u548	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Stavros Theodorakis has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u549	Mr Lykoudis, let me propose to your Bureau - and also to Mr Voutsi - that we take a bold step in the House, abolish the clocks, the timescales, because it is really a shame for Parliament not to look at the timer. It's not happening anywhere in the world, not in any country. Anyway, when we do not respect the minimum rule, how do we expect people to think that they have to observe some other rules? There were speakers who spoke an hour while they had to speak twenty minutes. However, today's debate really looks like reheated food. We have told you our views on both parties' loans and SME loans. It's only two of the sides of the old system's decay. Huge subsidies to parties to have offices, to maintain party mechanisms, to make a post-war, to make blows with plastic flags, because what party are you, if it's not the head's face on the wooden columns of PPC in Upper Panagia, if you don't have offices in Kato Panagia, if you haven't appointed five people in Peragia and Dothea Panagia? Thus, millions of dollars were wasted on millions, of course, money that we deprived of schools and hospitals. When the grants were finished, the parties went to the banks and took further millions not with guarantees, but indeed with the forehead. But be careful. He wrote Mr. Tsipras in 2010, asking for a debt arrangement and a new loan from the National Bank, the following: "It is clear to us that acceptance of our requests requires a broader visa and is not specified solely by strict and unique financial criteria". Did you notice the words he used? The youngest leader reiterated the arguments of the Paleopian policy: lend me, lend my party, not on bank criteria, but because I offer the place. About the same thing has been said for decades and some publishers and canals: I have air, give me money. This is how we reached the media having borrowed 1,027,000 euros and the parties over 400,000 euros, 210,000 euros New Democracy and 190,000 euros in PASOK, 8,000,000 euros in SYRIZA. All this is beyond the 825,000 euros that the parties received as state funding over the past twenty years. The river participated in three elections. We made European elections with 100,000 euros, national elections in January 2015 with 395 000 euros and in September with 480,000 euros. And our financial evidence, revenue - expenses, it's all public. Potami is the only party that has sent complete economic data to the International Transparency. They are the small ones that make us proud. Others, then, are rocking the millions, as we say in Crete, and few insist differently. There is, of course, a price for it. We don't have offices all over the country. We don't support party mercenaries. Our executives are moving at their own expense and our campaigns are being set up by our friends, our volunteers, not advertising agencies and foreign consultants. And, of course, we don't have journalists in payroll, journalists and media who their party of power are rewarded by public funds. Because this is the triplet of power: government thick funding - at least before -, bank loans and public funds to the service of the party. You appoint, you have secret funds, you pay journalists, you get website managers and you baptize them. For all this, when are we really going to discuss this in the House, in other words, the abundance of the state from the respective government? We have called on you, gentlemen of the government, to abolish the secret funds at the Ministry of Defence and wherever else. Why don't you do it? Why are the secret codes suited to you, the codes of tens of millions? You're crying for the poor at every opportunity, but you only care about your mercenaries. At the offices of the ministers, in organizations councils, everywhere you'll find a consultant with a previous professional website manager. In the Pentagon, there are more consultants than fanatics, as the officers will tell you. In short, within three years you have done online what other people have done in traditional within thirty years. The same system, the same redemption, only a little fall in prices due to a crisis. And you prevented the Committee of Inquiry to deal with specific complaints of money flow in SYRIZA-ANEL-controlled websites. You feared that others would start talking, all those who were funding to do a dirty job, those who were swearing, muddling and threatening your opponents, those who are currently rewarding you with state positions. Ladies and gentlemen, instead of serving the citizen, the institutions are often degenerated in fields of privileges and abuse. Anyone who attended the forty meetings of the Committee of Inquiry found that privileges to one party, to parties, to selected publishers and canalarchs, became tools of abuse and finally, scenes of corruption. Of course, the government majority decided that no politician has a responsibility. And you wonder: Where did all these crowns, slogans and analogies of Mr. Tsipras go about the triangular triangles, when from this pyramid, from this triangle is missing the top, are politicians missing? We are therefore asking - to go to the proposals as well and to stick to the timescale - that is: the overdue parties must present a realistic plan to repay their loans, which will be their debts in ten years, in twenty years' time. We call for there to be a substantial incompatible between public contractors or public works contractors and the owner of SMEs. We call for transparency and publicity of the parties' economics, advertising expenditures of the state, banks and the ECHO. As far as the time is concerned, that is to say, the closure of newspapers, we have said so at the previous sitting, and we have said so today. We must save the literature and not, of course, the publishers responsible for this curse. To exhaust all possibilities so as not to silence what is inside today is near the paddock. However, not to write down the responsibilities of their owners. Determine responsibilities for their mismanagement. To implement the law, but to give workers a second chance. Hundreds of people are unpaid for months and are present at their daily meetings with the citizens. They were betrayed, deceived, but they insist. We must therefore allow them to continue their efforts to find serious investors and we expect the government to make its own proposal, as Mr Tsipras has promised in the House last time. However, the enclosure and sudden death will only accumulate new losses in the banks and eventually, in the public sector. In France, to cope with the prolonged judgement of the literature, they give two hundred thousand new subscriptions each year in literature, newspapers and magazines. We should therefore support pluralism and we should - let me say - support local media, which have been on their knees with the sudden increase in contributions and taxes, while all revenues have also suddenly been nullified. But I have the feeling that this debate is a little in vain. See you, see you, and nothing changes. Everything's bored, everything gets worse. You'll learn the news from the economy. Large companies pay, supposedly, at night, holidays, overtime with meal and supermarket coupons, while other companies, to save taxes and insurance contributions, pay instead of Bulgarian and Cypriot prepaid bank cards. Black work is still growing. It's more than five hundred thousand people. One out of five workers is uninsured and one out of three is paid at EUR 300. The government of hope, dignity, work and people's interests continues to play, with the second assessment, a communication game, above all, to become a virtue in its party army, which is now fed up by the state and which is indifferent to labour and the working middle ages prevailing in real life. For the parties that have ruled and now for the SYRIZA - ANEL, private sector people are invisible, tax-paying machines. At some point, however, machines rise when they realize that everything, but of course, the proud negotiation is intended to maintain a state-owned mechanism and a power of populists. Lost jobs, ladies and gentlemen, work and lost GDP are not just due to fiscal adjustment, but to uncertainty, political instability and lack of liquidity. Potami has announced since May 2016 that the degree of nominal compliance of the agreed actions of the Memorandum did not exceed 43%. We had also revealed that real implementation did not exceed 15% and you mocked us and Mr. Tsakalotos came and confirmed that we have done 1/3 of the agreed ones, the other one/3 will do it in two weeks and the last one/3 will do it ten days after the signature. And all that Mr. Tsipras said, we're going to be late, but we're gonna close the negotiation by December 5th, where did they go? There is the big question, Prime Minister: why have you given time? Why, with your delay, did you give time to the extremists' extremes to threaten and blackmail Greece again? So I am telling you directly this: it will be a crime if you do not close the second assessment by the end of February. It'll be a crime if we lose the quantitative relaxation that is judged on March 9th. It will be a crime if the evaluation goes in May, as some of your ministers whisper. So close the evaluation. Don't prolong the loose end. Do not open a word about the drachma again. We don't want to live again in the 2015 nightmare. Some in the judiciary may have protected you and filed the crime of capital control. But all crimes are accumulated and situations can be made at some point explosive. I conclude, saying: Either close the evaluation or submit to the mandate, to take responsibility for a government of Greece if you dream of a "new 2015". The country cannot continue to deceive. The abyss is being held. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u550	Thank you, Mr President. I have to give you an answer on the observation you have made. You're right. Here, today, there has been no overrun of time. There was a time crash, a time break. That is a matter. The House's Committee on the Rules of Procedure is currently discussing the question of time management at plenary sittings. We need to see the subject tomorrow at 4:00 a.m. That is one of the issues, because this cannot continue. Thank you for the remark, but it is a matter of all of us.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u551	Mr President, what are we going to do now? What time are we going?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u552	There is one issue, Mr Javarra. However, we must all agree with each other that at some point we must finish. I, like many others, are written to talk, but at some point we must say 'Those who have been ahead' because otherwise we are going on the basis of data - Parliamentary representatives, MPs, etc.-02.00'-02.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u553	Mr President, let's go for 4,00' time or 5,00'.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u554	You think so, huh? I did a bad calculation. I don't know. Mr. Teddy, Mr. Javarra, Mr. Lappa, we must come to an agreement. Thank you very much. Mr Costas Scandalidis has the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u555	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am obliged to comment, beyond my speech and my speech, on the style and spirit of today's debate. It's an old-fashioned conversation. I have followed it on several occasions, and I am saddened, because I hear the same speeches from a recorder, the same pattern, the same argument, the same style and the same morale. It's a reason pastoral, impasse, that just wants to win some on-the-spot impressions. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over, Mr Nikolaos BOUTSIS]] If the parties to their judgment, in their problem, can give rise to such voices, I cannot understand why the leadership of the country and, above all, the Prime Minister has this feeling that it was today the day that could be overcome in every populist outburst we have experienced so far, using the words 'affected', 'exposed','show', 'do', 'do', which do not match someone leading in a difficult period of the country. Use expressions that I understand. They would like to cancel the entire period of postpopulation in order to have the entity of the "first time left". However, only the negative aspects of postpopulation have been imitated for so long by the government of SYRIZA and ANEL. Only the negative aspects, that is, the psalmist, the creation of impressions, the convicted condemnation, the ones that show a furniture self-sufficiency, but in the background there is a crisis of leadership of the country, the measures that come and the fact that this impasse attempts to turn the ruling party into an army that will defend as another Don Quixote the course towards windmills. The ruins that we will later live together will be collected together, innocent and guilty, because no one today can speak from the position of innocent to guilty in a political system that has not been able to cure its pathogens, but it is this political system that has created the only period of well-being that the country has had for a century. So there must be little more respect! If you ask me how I feel today when we are discussing a top issue of democracy, the feelings that perpetuate me are mixed. On the one hand, as a Member of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, I am very pleased that the presence of our representative in the committee, the testimony of the Director-General of the PASOK, the position of our rapporteur and, in particular, the speech made by our President, has not fallen to the extent of the circumstances, have not fallen into the trap of populism and of newspaper impressions, have worked exemplarily in the search for truth and constructively in the winter days of democracy and its institutions. On the other hand, I cannot hide my disappointment, because another chance for the political system to deal with its structural problems together, to overcome the sufferings it created and to shield democracy, went lost. The party that ruled brought its own finding, described its own truth, refused to share it with others and to look for it in the real facts, remained committed to its own purpose, simply to smash her political opponents, to earn time, having decided the guilty, who without any evidence he wants to file a trial. What matters if all the procedures followed, regardless, were legal and common, what matters if the committee's procedures turned boomerang against it, the purpose justifies the means. And yet it is a time when another moral and another reason in the national Parliament should be proclaimed, a reason for national unity and consensus. Do you see one of us who will leave this evening and take with him quietly in his conscience that the national purpose that the Greek people have given us to defend was served? I'm clearly saying no. And it is a pity at this stage that the country's leadership is experiencing such a crisis. What did the committee's procedures prove? The parties and the banks followed formal and institutionally sound procedures. If we strip the text out of ideological salmonisms, political acrobatics on the hundreds of pages of the finding, criminal responsibilities of politicians are not recognised or substantiated. The intention of the political complaint in advance that he considers guilty of criminal liability has been demonstrated, as issues have arisen worthy of further enlargement concerning the administration of power by the punishing party, to prove in practice and as yet another political lesson that it is to guarantee transparency and to prosecute any responsible persons through the institutions of democracy and independent justice and more is the criminalisation of the country's political life. Whether as an act of confirmation, or as an act of disorientation from the deadlocks of policy, the company generally ends up in a shipwreck. And what's left? I'd like to refresh your historical memory. Almost every party that has been in power for many years, I would say since '89, has been engaged in all tons that the Special Court's door will open for its opponents. We after the '89 traumatic experience, not just did it, but we protected the political world by law from criminalisation. You did not agree to examine together the parties during the period from the euro to the present day. The shadow is already deceiving in the next phase which, apparently, concerns you, because there will be another change in power. That's what democracy says. Looks like she'll be in the next phase. Everyone speaks politically and denounces infidelity in the management of the parties' finances. We put sworn accountants in our party. We took people to the D.A. We have opened the transparency process. How about you? No one has followed us so far. Nearly all fundamental laws, which constitute the institutional framework of transparency throughout the post-multiple period, were made with PASOK governments and most of them through intergroup procedures. Do you have an allergy with the intergroups? Why has the Prime Minister not replied to the proposal tomorrow to make a cross-party committee to deal with the problem of the instruments together? So we can be the subordinates of the media and you redeemers from the complexion? Is that what your democratic conscience submits to you? Well, will you ask me: Are you acquitting the political system of all responsibility, the exercise of power? Is this a world of angelics made up? Of course not. So let's talk about it, even now, with open papers. The relations between policy and the media and the market have been legal throughout this period, but are paralysed. When it suddenly grew the size of GDP, when communication absorbed the largest part, when the route of the so-called "political money" ran the triangle you complained about, when it increased the electoral expenditure to a huge extent, when it raised the functionalities of the parties, all parties proportionally and in the same way of lending and changed them to great lending, this evolutionary process, which we were following, had to deal with the problem more drastically, because it was simply improving the situation. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] For the last two decades the system has not needed marginal improvements, but drastic areas. As to who they are, we can find them. Will it be the legalisation and control of private funding? Will the public person be subject to the natural judge? Will it be the independent authority for where you've been? We can make a series of suggestions. The question is whether we will ever decide to impose them. Are we going to agree to cut off every umbilical cord, connecting politics to economic power, or continue chasing a chimney, and one of the rivals will succeed, and one opponent will hit the next and the next phase will be who will go to the special court - something that we have been living here for so many years - with the same ruthless cries and the same applauses of the veils on something they see and are not ashamed to admit what the truth is? Ladies and gentlemen, as long as we do not heal the causes, the problem will be reproduced. And what remains is every new authority to target the next one. Nothing is going to happen at all from you. Are we all gonna decide together? And here comes the national understanding, which you think for us is just a tactic.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u556	Mr. Colleague, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u557	I shall conclude, Mr President. It is a strategic need for the country to be saved, it is the permanent strategy that will survive and after the next elections, which will lead to the end of the crisis. And only for her deserves the trouble of old and young people to make a great effort again, to make a new race, a great struggle.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u558	Thank you very much Mr. Scandalides.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u559	Mr President, will we save the process a little? How do you see the subject evolving?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u560	With patience, I see the process progressed, Mr. President. Mr Kontonis, who is the last Minister to speak today, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u561	Ladies and gentlemen, in a reversal of her speech, the President of the PASOK accused the government of the duration of the surplus. He accused the government of saying that after 99 years he will have passed many generations and of course none of us will be in life. In fact, she perished her word by saying that until then we do not know what is going to happen. Has Mrs Genders asked about the PASOK loans and when will they be repaid? Because we have good things, these loans will be repaid in 200, 300, 400 years, will we get the years of the Ottoman occupation? I don't know! Because as you do, that's where it's calculated. So what is the subject of today's debate has not bothered Mrs Gennamas. And I am referring precisely to the loans that her party has taken. And as far as what we heard from Mr. Mitsotakis is concerned, he allegedly assumed the loan of "KYRIKA" Chania was absolutely assured because he had suffered immovable property, how did the Chief of Staff say so? So, because there was a proxy security, he had for eleven years an immunity to pay the doses? Because two months had delayed the dose because of my father's death in a housing house in both months, I was disturbed by the bank. Eleven years, Mr. Mitsotakis didn't bother him? What claims are those who are heard? Ladies and gentlemen, the question of lending the PASOK and New Democracy parties, as well as the media, is about the problematic formation - and here I agree with many - of the political and economic system of power that has prevailed since the relocation to our country. It was an economic and political system which was built in the measures of bipartisanism, was completely favoured by the PASOK and the New Democracy and had as a crown the law on the responsibility of Ministers and the specific constitutional provision, which effectively allowed all criminal responsibility of a involved political person to be sidelined. Based on what has so far been known from the work of the committee, New Democracy and PASOK have succeeded in the years that were running for EUR 420,000,000, while the news groups EUR 1,200,000. The sums, ladies and gentlemen, are glossy if we take into account the real economic situation in the country and the provocative fact that these loans continued to be taken by both the parties, who have been ruling up to now and by the media, when poverty had entered for good in the life of Greek society. The two parties mentioned above and the press groups received loans with extremely favourable to scandalous repayment terms and with extremely weak to non-existent security guarantees. Intensified, ladies and gentlemen, the public heard a spokesman of the "DOL" saying that he was receiving loans against air. Where have these happened? Where have they happened before, how have you allowed all these years to happen and why have they happened? In some cases, I would like to stress that these practices of receiving loans have become outrageous. Why else can one characterise PASOK and New Democracy as a strategy for the state grant to various banks to take loans? How else would you characterize it? It was an outrageous tactic, which I do not want to say at this point, but it causes public opinion, because there was not a public registration system such as the registration of mortgages in the mortgages, this state subsidy was surrounded by a bank. In fact, the banks, the poor, did not know what one is doing against the other for the particular sponsored party, while no businessman would have been involved, and this man would have been dusted. If so - and the Prime Minister said in his speech - this tactic is combined with 'black' political money, with the 'black' financing of the parties - which you know very well, you are well aware of the percentages of 'SIEMENS' and of the major companies that went to the parties in the New Democracy and PASOK - then we are talking here about a system of total distortion of political will and of citizens and those involved in the production of politics. Really, since you're telling us here about sworn accountants, that bag of Tsukatos' money, did the sworn accountants tell you what happened? Were that money recorded in the funds? Because Mr Tsukatos has said that "I took the money and was a 'black' and a 'black', but I delivered it to the PASOK fund". For these issues, there are findings and we have heard nothing in this Chamber today! Ladies and gentlemen, at the political level it is a symptom of a literally unequal treatment towards political parties other than PASOK and New Democracy. The rest of the parties did not, of course, have the 'black' funds for 'SIEMENS' to be financed. We are talking about the distortion of political competition, which should be done under conditions which the Constitution dictates and the law on 'partner financing' requires. Within the framework of the party system itself, the unequal treatment of political parties has marked a oligopolistic party structure for years, which is contrary to the principle of equal political participation and to the equality of political parties in accordance with Articles 4 and 29 of the Constitution. Furthermore, it is clear that these fundings were being circumvented by all that legislative arsenal, which protects the equality of political participation and blames for the fact that there are such phenomena, but also destroys the special institutions against the duplication. Absolute circumvention of the Constitution, laws and special rules! But this, ladies and gentlemen, unequal treatment and distortion did not only remain politically. There was also a distortion in entrepreneurship. What nice capitalists you were and how nice you were telling us about the market, that is, how well the market regulates everything and does fine things - I am talking about you, especially the New Democracy - when you yourself have paid for these behaviours, businessmen at the expense of other businessmen of similar companies, or you have opened the string without guarantees and without security to certain entrepreneurs, while small and medium-sized enterprises were shutting down and destroying them. That was the situation: the distortion of political competition and of the country's economic situation. Mostly in this way you have changed the role of the banks. From financial institutions, which had to operate in the context of a democratic rule of law, banks, ladies and gentlemen, with these practices that you have adopted, have become active pillars of policy, up to and including a culture. In this way, there was an absolute distortion, an absolute breach of all the rules of law. Of course, these issues will be dealt with. Justice now has the floor, and the competent prosecutors will check the Commission's conclusion, which is fully documented and absolutely secures all those issues, which are currently being presented by the parliamentary representatives of the majority parties. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u562	I would like the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u563	What do you want, Mr. Loverdo?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u564	We are very much offended by what he says, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u565	Really? Then I'll talk too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u566	In this Chamber everyone takes the responsibility of the public.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u567	I have no objection to what you're saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u568	He didn't excite.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u569	How did he not extinguish?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u570	Who have I devoured, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u571	He didn't excite. Please. Please, Mr. Loverdo, we have a lot of time pressure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u572	I want to say a phrase.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u573	One sentence, say it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u574	Minister, if you didn't end up as you ended up, a speech against PASOK, I wouldn't say anything. You're telling your opinions. Do you keep in mind that you are a Minister of Justice? You're Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u575	Mr. President, is that what he wanted to say? What if I keep in mind that I'm a Justice Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u576	I want to finish my sentence. You're a Minister of Justice. What you say is given to this Chamber, not the impression, the certainty that you will use your political place to do what you said from the Step of the House. You have to understand that you are the Supreme Minister of Institutions. You don't understand. We'll teach you. Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u577	That's enough. I have given a political speech, Mr President, on the political system and the opposition that New Democracy and PASOK brought against, which enables extreme right-wing and neo-nazis to become honorers of democracy. This is the work you have given and the government is now inaugurated.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u578	Thank you. Good. It is a matter of clearing up the issues. Mr. Dendias, please, he has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u579	Mr President, I understand the fatigue of colleagues. I'll try to be brief. I have to deal with a number of issues raised by the Prime Minister earlier. First of all, the Prime Minister said something amazing. He talked about an amazing performance of the Greek economy. I hope a number of Greeks have heard him because I do not think there is even one citizen in this country who shares this view, including his Members in this Chamber. I noticed that no one applauded him. I repeat the phrase: 'Surprise performance of the Greek economy'. Very nice. I mean, imagine, she wasn't amazing what she was expecting us. It makes me a huge impression that the Prime Minister told me at a crucial time at the National Representation that we are not alone. And he referred to the meeting in Lisbon. It is worth telling the government that, at a time when various wishes were heard in Lisbon, the Eurogroup did not support the Greek positions. Not even a Minister! He just gave the floor to Mr. Sapen and said something. No one backed us. The Greek Government has found itself completely isolated. Greece is completely isolated. And it's completely isolated because of the lame tactics of this government. We were informed by the Prime Minister, because we are calling for elections when the evaluation has not been closed. Ladies and gentlemen, in 2014, what did the Prime Minister do to the Samara government, to know? Didn't he drop her before the evaluation was closed? Do I remember wrong that it caused elections by not allowing the President of the Republic to be elected? He also said things good. He said justice would judge whether there were political responsibilities. Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your pardon, there is an article in the Greek Constitution under number 86. Is that known to the government, or are you completely ignored? The fact that Parliament is responsible for prosecuting Ministers has passed through the government's mind? Has anyone ever read it? Is it possible for the most competent institution, the Prime Minister, to come here and say that justice will judge? Of course, justice. In what sense? And to be informed, I read here, read your proposal. Your proposal, the proposal of the government majority, expressly states: 'The signatories and the signatories propose to sign up for a discussion of the findings of the examination in accordance with Article 148(3)'. The prosecutions are in Article 154. You have had every right, if you were to judge that there was evidence or shades of evidence, to ask for a preliminary investigation, pre-trial as it is now called. Why didn't you, ladies and gentlemen? And in any case, is it justified for the head of government to be allowed to come here to say that someone else will judge? So, you, when you asked for the inquiries, what were you going to do to know? Ladies and gentlemen, there have also been too many inaccuracies. I'll stand on one. I'll talk a little bit about "KERYKA" later. It's a lot easier for me to be third, say two things. The Chief of the New Democracy, Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, was very sloppy - and rightly - in what he said. We were accused by the Prime Minister of two-tiering New Democracy. This is completely inaccurate. The first allocation was made to the Agricultural Fund for the 12 million, the second in Attica for 2 million. And there is a letter from the New Democracy to the Bank of Attica, which informs us of this. It's not nice to lie, you know. It's not inaccurate. He's a liar. It's not nice to lie in this Chamber. It is not nice to create in Greek society the impression that the whole political system is made up of scams and all they have to do is cheat to achieve more funding. I don't claim it all happened right. For God's sake! But it is not nice for the Prime Minister to say things that, with all due respect for his role, I will call them lies. Now, another time is being investigated, bags in publishing offices, etc. That is what I will tell you. I do not want to describe them. I come a little on the subject of "KERYKA" of Chania. Here we have a lie on which another lie is built. That's the logic, Lenin. The repetition of a lie produces a "fact" and on this "fact" we can build another lie when it needs us once. Ladies and gentlemen, Karykas is a historic newspaper.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u580	You're messing with Gabels.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u581	I'm not making any mistakes. It's not Gabels's. I didn't make any mistake, Mr. Paphie. I'm glad to see you're sensitive to Vladimir Ilich Ulinov, but he said that. What can we do now? We can't saint him already. So let's go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u582	You're afraid of him. What can we do? His ghost is deceiving.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u583	KERYKAS, ladies and gentlemen, is a historic newspaper. You know it was founded by Eleftherios Venizelos. You will allow me to say that if it were necessary for the National Representation to agree to take measures to rescue her, we would all be happy to do so. And I believe the government's majority too. Indeed, the rescue of the newspaper, founded by Eleftherios Venizelos and failed to achieve this rescue. What upsets me is the total ignorance of the Bank of Greece's findings, the total ignorance, the complete indifference that a former Prime Minister with all his assets guarantees all the loans. And the Bank of Greece comes and says that these loans are completely covered. This whole, which does not exist for any other loan, any other business, any other newspaper, comes the Prime Minister of the country and calls it 'complex'. Complication! And you know, the Prime Minister doesn't even know - he's relatively young - that the term "complexity" was first used in Greek political life by Constantine Mitsotakis, for what they threw his government back then. And it is rather funny to use this term as the Prime Minister. But he doesn't do it wrong. Unfortunately, not all of this is done by mistake. As, it is tragic that "balloon", the most secure way of serving housing loans at the moment, "I pay interest and capital remains at the end", the way in which all housing loans were settled in America, all housing loans in Ireland, should appear in the Greek Parliament as a scandal. Ladies and gentlemen, there are lawyers here. Any lawyer in question has arranged dozens of such customer loans. Mr President-in-Office's rhetoric questions about scandals do not stand the seriousness right now. It's worth being a little serious, even if we weren't talking about such a historic form, and if we weren't talking about a former prime minister. A little respect for public knowledge and common sense. Are we serious? Is "balloon" a scandal? I had left legislation in the Ministry of Development, to be 'balloon' for all housing loans, and I have renounced Mr Stathakis on several occasions because he did not adopt the legislation, but he leaves them at the discretion of the banks, which do so. And you know why they're doing it? So they don't take the properties off the hammer. Because if they take the properties off to the hammer, what do they get? And here we are talking about still. And what has been said, that a single dose had not been given, is not accurate. The rents were paid every month, since there were no calls. In any case, this is the issue that should be addressed at this juncture - that is what it is? - or the other issue about the five hundred thousand, for which there were no invoices? Are we serious? For all housing loans, are there invoices for the total amount and when there is a delay will the invoice be presented and this is called a major scandal and a complication? Is that what we've come to say this is a complication in Greece? Ladies and gentlemen, I come to the conclusion. Mr President, I will not be late. What was the title of the finding? ‘The investigation of the legality of lending by political parties and owners of media companies by banking institutions’. That was the point. The first question therefore is the legality of lending political parties. Yes, sir. You've set up a committee of inquiry. Question: Have you come to responsibilities, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, to political persons, yes or no? I told you before about what you are proposing here. Leave it to the district attorney now. That's what Mr. Simitis said. Send anything you want to any prosecutor you want. To the P.A. in your area, wherever you want, whatever you want. I ask you: have you, yes or no, reached political responsibility? Don't threaten someone that you'll send something to the D.A. It's the right of every Greek citizen to send anything to the prosecutor. Do not present it to us as an institutional action, as a solution to the tragedy. So I ask you: Have you come? If you have come to an end, why do you not submit a request here to set up the committee provided for in Articles 153 et seq. and to proceed with criminal prosecutions against political persons? You didn't find anything and that's why you didn't do anything. It's over and out. And to cover the "fuck" of this, you come and say that we will go to the prosecutor, so that I do not adopt the most evil view - and perhaps better - of attempting to blackmail the entire political system and the publishing system through the threat. We are now coming to the media. This is where you'll tell me, are the media owners saints? Of course not.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u584	Just one more minute, Mr. Teddy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u585	I will not break it, Mr President. Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen, but what party suffered more than anything? We are talking about 'DOL'. What party has been the main target of the "Doll" for too many years? Do you want to ask the non-attached in Kostas Karamanlis how do you treat him as "DOL", how has he behaved in the New Democracy, to know? Are you telling us that we were supported? Us? But explain to me what you found for the media. You refer to the fact that the media got 1.3 billion. Of these overnight 1.3 billion is 319 million. This is what you write, based on the Bank of Greece's report. Of the 319 million, how many million have you found that they were badly donated? One hundred and ten million. How many millions of cases have they already gone to the D.A.? For 110 million. What were we doing here? What did the committee do? Can you tell me? Can you tell me a million who found more than he hadn't found since the public prosecutors? What are you talking about, ladies and gentlemen? Are we serious? I've never read a bigger and more useless text in my life. I'm telling you, honestly. Seven hundred pages were written in order not to serve any objective, just to enable the Prime Minister of Greece, Mr. Tsipras, to come here tonight and to call us the so-called Karykas scandal Chania. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u586	Thank you. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Mr Ballis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u587	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today's first month and many of the spokesmen of the Officerial Response mainly, with the Chief of Officerial Response, took care of their speeches and their place in confirming the designation given for the month February from his first day, as the month of disguises. In five days, the Triumph opens. They appeared here as transparent preachers of transparency, as strong fighters of interoperable to the degree of patronage, I would say. But this disguise can no longer convince the Greek people. I shall briefly refer to things that have been heard. The President of PASOK said: "Here Greece is lost and we are talking about the loan of "KERYKA". No, ladies and gentlemen, we are not just talking about Karyka's loan here, which is annoying the Civic Opposition. We are talking about the phenomena of interlocutory, which were gigantic in the years of governance, by PASOK and by New Democracy. We are talking about the continuation of the selective relations between policy and the economic interests that both parties had in high politics. Mr Scandalides has already said, saying that he is tired of following the same debate on the same arguments, the same screaming and the same applause. Let me ask, while respecting his long presence in both the House and in the political events: has he been following the development of interlocutory? If I remember correctly, from 1995 to 2001 he was a PASOK secretary. Is this not the period of the development of friendly relations between Christoforikos - Tsukatos - Pitaulis and others? Is it not the same period of the signature of the ‘SIEMENS’ contract as OTE for digital services? Isn't this the same time Tsukatos was taking the money to PASOK through seven foreign accounts? Is it not the same time of pressure and finally of the C4I market for future use in 2004, which was not ultimately used? Isn't it the same time that people and internally from PASOK tried to involve Mr. Scandalides in the famous so-called "fighting" after the complaints made by Mr. Pangalos? New Democracy and its rapporteur have referred to these issues from the outset. There were no political responsibilities in the finding, no political intervention, no privileged treatment of SMEs by the banks. Only for one is responsible, and this is SYRIZA, said Mr Metarakis. He also mentioned pages of the finding as evidence of what he said. He referred to pages 69-70 and then jumped to 384. And he made no mention of either the previous or the next pages. I would tell colleagues to start and look at the pages of the conclusion 219 to 227 and 640 to 644. And then we keep going. Ladies and gentlemen, several years ago an American athlete, Earl Wilson, said: 'People today are divided into three categories in terms of their wealth: to those who do not have and to those who have not paid for what they have.' This third category, namely those which have not paid or, at least, have not paid for what they should have acquired, for what they possess and the way they did, is that it has been revealed - even though not all - through the work of the Committee of Inquiry, that is to say, those who have been borrowed, not only have paid, but also still act as auditors, judges and critics of the same society, still moving their fingers. Loans to the media, which led us today to have rich media directors with poor media and unpaid workers, loans to parties, which resulted in the rich election campaigns, banks' presentities, the ultimate burden on the Greek people. Because, as Commissioner Almunia confessed in 2014, the cover of the 'black hole' by this lending of parties that have never been repaid, was made with Greek taxpayers' money. It is the answer Almunia gave to two Greek MEPs. The two parties, PASOK and New Democracy, which are concerned with this question, what do they answer? What does New Democracy particularly reply to the then questioning and today regaining its ranks as a political partner, Mr. Psulakakis, who has asked this question and who, since 2013, has seen the loans of the two parties, "These debts have been set off over the last three years, during which, at the same time as the private sector had suffocated from the lack of liquidity, the New Democracy has increased its lending of more than 20 million euros, as is apparent from its balance sheets"? What, really, do the two parties answer while the Mindarchs confess they received loans guaranteeing their name's air alone? Carbons the treasure supports the opposition, shouting to cover its responsibilities. Does it support this, and when it relates to the loans of the "KERYKA" of Chania, when it is known that only after the presentation of the matter on the Committee of Inquiry was the long sleep of the banks that were fourteen and a half - and not eleven - years indifferent? Here, ladies and gentlemen, of Officer Opposition, someone has been caught with the sprout on the back, someone is misleading, someone is not telling the truth. Or Mr. Konstantinos Mitsotakis who, the day after the discovery of the scandal of "KEYKA" Chania said that there is nothing and that the loans have been taken over by "PREMAMA S.A." which took over after 2006 the new "KERYKA" or Mr.Kyriakos Mitsotakis who two days later in this Chamber, after this intervention, said that there is no question why the loans have been arranged. A moment ago, Mr Dendia, you said that there was no question of the rent being allocated. Don't be misled too. The rents were allocated for the loan of the Pangretian Bank, not Piraeus Bank for which the entire debate is taking place. So someone consciously misled the Greek people. In fact, both Mitsotakis were consciously misled by the Greek people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u588	Mr Marios Georgiadis has the floor for six minutes with a small flexibility.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u589	I will speak briefly, although I have been prepared for a long time, but I have not had time and I have bothered the President in at least ten times today. I would like to table a relevant supplementary note on our part, which will be published shortly afterwards, not to be another conclusion, but because we believe that what we refer to in it is working according to the views of the other parties and approaching a different angle. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Marios Georgiadis, presents for the Minutes the above memorandum, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I'll start with the parties my own suggestion, my own report. Perhaps it is the only time, or at any rate the least, that a party - in this case of the SYRIZA - ended up coming to the surface of events and documents - and, at first, set up traps for its opponents - who, it turns out, are incriminating both the party itself and its leader. For nine months the SYRIZA - ANEL government was coming out with cords on television and channels for allegedly viewpoints, indications, documents that would prove guilty politicians of other parties and that they would shed light on the truth. We ended up accusing SYRIZA of New Democracy of "KRYKA" Chania and the New Democracy of SYRIZA of the offshore of "AGEY", as if the fragmentation of the state budget and public money were only through these two instruments. We admitted there was a complication, so there's a crime, but there's a criminal anywhere. No name. Just generalization. And finally the truth shone and even shone at SYRIZA's own house, which until now has been dark and locked. So since the hearing of the dozens of witnesses and the tens of thousands of documents, which have been lodged, we have learned the following and are certainly not questioned. In fact, number one and more importantly, it appears from an official document circulating that the President of SYRIZA and Prime Minister of the country today is the only political leader who calls - and indeed in writing - for a bank president to ignore the laws and procedures to give money, which is not entitled to his party. And that's not all that's done. It's going further. He also demands money, not what the bank appreciated, which can make available to a party of 4% and 5% that was then, but what he thinks is needed for the party's activities. And we've got more than that. It submits a proposal for repayment in the way the party does, of course, by replacing the Loan Committee. Ladies and gentlemen, we know that, so far, the borrower gives the way to repay the loan and not the borrower. Now you, teach other customs, the habits of the so - called Left, as you have been telling us lately. Truth Number Two: SYRIZA is the only party that in his newspaper's blog of "AGEI", he participates as an unscrupulous sponsor an offshore company, for which he stubbornly refuses to let us know who is behind and what is the purpose of this, at least, of infamous, interlocking. I do not know of any party that has a funder who is also unknown. Third truth: SYRIZA is the only party where the Prime Minister wanted to become a canalarch, he fell out and suddenly wanted to be a sheriff of space, someone else decided to be a banker, another one wanted to be a portlor of Piraeus and so on. By night we may be here inventing other positions from your particular zealous demonstration, because you seem to be very ambitious. We are talking about the absolute control of everything. And to this bank, which is completely controlled by SYRIZA, the findings of the audits were catastrophic: without rules, without management committees, without consultants' skills, lending at lower rates to friends of distinguished entrepreneurs and consultants. And I have a crisis question, right now, why don't you not think it's just for you what I have to say. I'm sure you have very good teachers. You must have been jealous of other parties that controlled banks, channels, newspapers and so on. And to be honest, all these nice and intertwined and covered, SYRIZA, obviously, was taught them by New Democracy and PASOK, who have thought that the Greek people should pay their exotics, the movements of thousands of voters with coaches, the luxurious offices with late-tech gyms, travellers, luxurious brochures and go saying. With this, and with this, New Democracy has come to owe the Greek people about 220 million and PASOK about 200. And it may not be sacred debts like the ones on the Left, but it does not cease...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u590	SYRIZA how much he owes?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u591	We said. They owe 220 million and 200 respectively.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u592	Bad guy SYRIZA owes how much he owes?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u593	You know very well if he owes and what he owes and how much he owes. Let us not open a dialogue, because we do not have time. We should be happy to open any dialogue you want, but we can't make it. We are now seeing PASOK lay responsibility for increasing the interest rates of banks and reducing the funding due to the precipitation of its percentage, but forgets to ask the Greek average, which cannot and cannot afford to make a regulation and we see that the average repayment time from PASOK is a few hundred years. That's two people's speeds. We see the homes of people who cannot pay and go out in auction, because you have drowned them with taxes all governments over the years and, on the other hand, there is the possibility of repayment of loans for a number of dozens or hundreds of years. On the other hand, the New Democracy declares a reduction in expenditure in order to pay the 200 million borrowed in turn. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, if you love your party and want to save it, but also to convince the Greek people that you can get us out of the deadlock, you can move on to the relocation of your property to the loan banks and you can normally be released with your head up here, always benefiting the party to which your presence is due. I close with the parties and move on with the banks. The attitude of their representatives to the signing of loan contracts leads us to intense reflection. They have been very easy to accept, as almost exclusive guarantees, what is mentioned in the finding as an assignment of expectation, that is, in substance a future asset and what has been mentioned by specific witnesses, media owners, personal guarantees of air - that is, his name, forename, signature and so on - which both did not ensure their interests. In this case, four are the conclusions on us. Firstly, it must be a reduced perception and reduced qualifications and knowledge, which we have seen in the committee that it is not the case, most people have left very good impressions. Secondly, they must have taken intervention from a political person, an opinion that they themselves categorically refused, but some other witnesses confirmed it. Thirdly, that they were under threat of fear that they will again be hanged in the handkerchiefs for some scandal existing or nonexistent. And fourthly, it has been enslaved, which I cannot even imagine personally. However, whatever may be the case with the above, the situation is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u594	Come on, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u595	Mr President, the previous speakers have also spoken more. Mr. Dendias spoke ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u596	Now you're at eight. We're giving you another one. You have one less than Mr. Treasury. That's how it's supposed to be in every respect.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u597	From the fifteen Mr. Loverdos spoke, I would like a little more of your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u598	Mr. Loverdos spoke the other day.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u599	I've been trying to talk since 17:00. Anyway, let's go down.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u600	Go ahead. There are 20 other colleagues waiting.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u601	Well, let's move on. Let's go to the mass media, where 1.3 billion actually is what they owe and many have put their films as a mortgage, even worth - as they say - 125 million euros to get the loans, which if someone had 10 or 20 million to buy them, they would be happy to give. In conclusion for us, the Central Association, it is clear that all three parties that have been ruling up to now, have exploited circumstances, the existence of the financing law, and have exhausted the margin of squandering public money. However, anyone who has attended the committee meeting can see that SYRIZA is also in those who are responsible. Clear political responsibilities emerged only on the basis of the document, a person who has broadly signed the letter from the Governor of the Bank. It is right that you should ask yourself: why is this loss and suffering so many months on the part of SYRIZA, since the parties involved - not to mention the word 'competent' - are within your own offices? You could just do a search there. We await developments with interest and thank you very much for your time and tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u602	Mr. Adonis Georgiadis has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u603	Just Mr. Georgiadis?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u604	Completely. You have a great ability in every respect to put in this time...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u605	Thank you, Mr President, for that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u606	And don't be insulting. You know.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u607	A few of them. I am starting to comment on the incident between the President of Parliament and Mr Tsakalotou. He's got something interesting about what happened. Mr Tsakalotos sat down and had a very intense episode with the President of Parliament. He refused to take the floor later. I say it so that the Greek people can hear it and be recorded. Mr. Chakalotos is a smart man. He's realised that Mr. Tsipras will sign all the preventive measures in the next few days, and you will of course vote for them. And he's realized he's going to be loaded by Mr. Tsakalotus, they're going to tell him that it's Tsakalotus's fault, and then they're gonna kick him out of this position as a scapegoat. That is why there is some interest in watching what Mr Chakalotos will do in the next few days and whether he will agree to play the role of the scapegoat. But keep what I told you today. Mr. Minister of Justice, I am glad you are in the Chamber, because I want to start with something Mr. Tsipras said, and I am very much in trouble. Mr. Tsipras said that if we look at some of the "subjects" of the great journalists, we will be surprised. And I officially ask, as a Member, the Minister of Justice how exactly Mr Tsipras can be aware of any journalist's 'from the outset'? The "subjects" are a secret thing. It is only in knowledge of the members of the committee. Listen, ladies and gentlemen. I repeat, Minister of Justice, that the Prime Minister of the country, from the Step of the House, said that if you were to see - implying that he has seen them - some of the "before" of the great journalists, then you would be amazed. I ask the Minister of Justice if he can inform the House how Mr. Tsipras has become aware of the "outside" of any Greek citizen. And that is very important, Minister of Justice, whether you are finally using the institutions, the committees "from now on" and, finally, justice itself, to play political games. I want to be extremely honest. This committee has not been made either for the matter or for anything. It was done to blackmail Mr. Tsipras, through committee, bankers and media and set up his own complication. Minister of Justice, I would like, when I finish my speech, to be informed, if you have any knowledge, of how the Prime Minister has done so and if you intend to investigate whether the Prime Minister has unlawfully done so. It is a very serious matter if the Prime Minister sets up an offense ring. It is a very serious matter if the Prime Minister is using the institution to blackmail journalists and entrepreneurs. I expect you to tell me. And now we go to Mr. Lappa, who is laughing. In my absence in committee, Mr Lappas said in infinitely a proposal I had made as candidate leader of the New Democracy concerning the possible deletion of party debts by the Katseli Act. Mr. Lappas is a man who broke his clothes for the immoral deletion. Mr. Lappa, when it was discovered that SYRIZA has erased 240 million drachmas, have you made any kind of statement against SYRIZA's immorality about debt write-offs? I guess not. Do you know why, Mr. Lappa? Why, you're all Pharisee hypocrites. Neither are your debts interested in anything. So let's go, Mr. Kontonis, remember a few dates. Mr Tsipras, with a very large tomb and the comfort he has in lying, read to us - and he had it in writing, in order not to mistake the dates of "Karyka" Chania. He said: "In April 2016 he denounced - says - Piraeus Bank's loan. Conspiracy, April 2016.’ She forgot to see a line below, April 2016 that you made the transfer of the property of Koumoundouros to SYRIZA and November 2016 is that you paid HISFIA and other taxes. You're gonna say, well, we forgot about it and we did it twenty years later. It's not that simple. Do you know why? Because, on the basis of the deposits of Mr Tsipras and the letters he sent to the banks, the loans received by SYRIZA were mortgaged. How, Mr. Contony, did SYRIZA get mortgage loans, pawning a property that he hadn't written in his name? That's not what the common crooks do! So, did you see that when Mr. Tsipras puts his mouth on dates, he falls into the pit that he's digging for others? Let's get some money, actually. I think, Mr Kontonis, that - and I tell you sincerely, because I have an assessment of you - you are making a very big mistake in SYRIZA that you are plundering on the loans of the parties in this way. You're making a huge mistake and our democracy will pay for it. Do you know why? One colleague called under: “How much does SYRIZA owe? It owes 9 million," implying that SYRIZA 9 million in front of 200 million of the New Democracy and PASOK. Wrong. Because when he took, before the crisis, New Democracy and PASOK 30 million a year, and SYRIZA 3 million, the ratio of the years is the same. You only know what's changed? Here's what's changed now. It has changed that PASOK went from 40% to 5%, while SYRIZA went from 3% to 37%. Question: If polls come in and get in the next 15% or 12% election and the next phase just to come does not allow you to pay your 9 million loans, because the subsidy you receive will be much less than interest, what will Mr Famelos say then that you are a crook? In fact - for people to understand what happened - the PASOK and the New Democracy took 30 million a year. They paid interest rate at the banks 3%, and they served their loans well. After the Memorandum of the PASOK and the New Democracy successively reduced the grant to all 30 million under the grant to 4 million. Of course, with the 4 million and 8% interest rates they cannot repay their loans. So you're not telling the whole story. Let me see, Mr. Kontonis, after the next election how SYRIZA will pay his loans, and here we will be in the House - I certainly do not know about you, but I hope you will - to see how SYRIZA will pay his loans in the current position of PASOK. Only changing your electoral percentages has made you look, not the essence. You did the same with what PASOK and New Democracy did with the party scale you were, with the exception that the two major parties were more careful. They did not write off debt, nor did they send a letter like Mr. Tsipras asking the National Bank to see the issue from a more broad perspective than from the narrow bank. That was not done by either of the other parties. So in fact, Mr Cotonou - to close - all you have done with this committee was try to muddle your political opponents. That didn't come out of you. As a result, of course, Mr Tsipras was a lie in this House because he said it is a matter for the prosecutors to see whether there are any responsibilities of political persons, and you are well aware that it is only a matter of this House. If you wanted to investigate the responsibilities of political persons, you should today be voting for a preliminary committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u608	Mr. Georgiadis, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u609	You didn't. You have written in your conclusion that you have not found any political responsibility. The prosecutor - whom Mr. Tsipras smacked - can do nothing about political persons.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u610	If he finds responsibility for political persons.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u611	You'll send this to the prosecutor and return it to the House without delay. Are we kidding now, Mr. Contony? It's unprotected. Speaking of which - well you told me, because I'm probably going to close - yesterday an prosecutor filed the Capital Controls case. Aren't you telling me, Mr. Contony, how did the D.A. put it in the file?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u612	Mr. Georgiadis, you're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u613	Has Mr Varoufakis not signed the capital control? In what way did the prosecutor consider that a case involving the Minister, Mr Varoufakis, has to be filed? Shouldn't the prosecutor send the file to the House without delay? Will the prosecutor who violated the Constitution be checked?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u614	Now what are you doing? Tell me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u615	You're gonna check him out? Or are you offended, too?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u616	Thank you, Mr. Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u617	Tell me, by closing how Mr. Tsipras came to the Step of the House and told us that he's seen the world of journalists, if he sees any other citizens and if he does it for what reason, and if Mr. Tsipras is setting up an offense, Mr. Contonis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u618	He hasn't said that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u619	And you'll be sure - and I'm looking into your eyes - we'll check everything out. None of those who have betrayed the institutions will escape.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u620	Mr. Georgiadis, you'll be ten minutes!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u621	You've set up a lot of circuits. No one will escape wherever he is, whether he is court or in another authority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u622	Mr. Georgiades, you've done a lot more time than you should have opened. And for everything you had, Mr Georgiadis, know - as we know about the whole political system - that they are public, they are posted...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u623	Not the journalists.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u624	It's politicians.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u625	Will you tell me about it? Calm down and listen. You let the other one end. For judges, journalists, publishers and police officers, there are special committees which also perform sample checks and others.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u626	The Prime Minister doesn't know them, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u627	Mr Georgiadis, from the rewards that were available to say in the years of happiness that you have said, and you can count on it. You understand that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u628	But he said "before you."
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u629	The Prime Minister didn't say he'd seen the place you had. He didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u630	Nobody said it. That's why I made it clear to Mr. Georgiadis that there will be no shadows left. You know that very well. You will speak to all the parliamentary representatives, do not press. The Heads have been, they have been the rapporteurs. We'll go by 1.30. Excuse me very much, but that's the way it is. Mr. Lappas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u631	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, first of all I have an obligation to do something that I did not do in the conclusion when I gave my report. I will, because I take the floor of an intervening complaint from the Chief of Officer's Opposition that we supposedly intercepted, he says, a text from the "Aristocratic Menesis" Group. I have to tell the Chief of Officer's Reconciliation that the findings of art and science, when published, are common property of all those who want to study, investigate, decide. With an obligation, perhaps, to declare their source. And I'm doing it now. I have to say to the Chief of Officerial Reconciliation that the Group "Aristobulus Manesis" has texts written in the 1970s, 1980s and 1990s, and they are findings of research from the universities of the country and they are estates of both students and researchers and of all the law of the country. He denounces us today that we have carried parts of the Aristobulu Menesis into our text. Of course we did. How else would we build? What is the text doing, what is an investigation that also has a legal character? Should it not base its assumptions, arguments, rhetoric, its results? Mr President, I should like to mention two names. Only the introduction, which is mentioned by the parties, made a five to six-page transfer, I think, from a study by Thanasis Xirus, who has been working for the political parties for years, and a small part of a undergraduate work by Constantine Chibas. Nothing else. Everything else is elaboration and views of the Commission and, above all, the majority. And now I'm going to the point. In order not to forget, as we understood from your rhetoric, friends of the Officerial Representation and of the PASOK party, about its complexity and its consequences in this country is responsible for 2% of the Cypriot company's participation in the capital of Dawn and for the transfer of the building of Koumoundouros in the 1990s. I'll tell you both. One is a legal person and has no obligation to reveal to anyone. It also has a name under this name, when there was an increase in the share capital of EUR 50,000 in a million share capital. As for your rhetoric about the building of Koumoundouros, I will tell you something: Eighty million drachmas were due, Mr Georgiadis, and there were three barren auctions. It ended up with the bank, when the third auction was held, staring to salvage what it can salvage. What's going on, you know? Of 80 million in debt, 185 million received more than twice the capital due. That's what you call a gift and a loan haircut. Ask lawyers, lawyers to explain to you what the consequence of barren continuous auctions is and leave the rest behind. So let's go back to the loans. First of the SMEs: "DOL" 179 million, "TELETYPOS" 115 million, "PEGASOS" 161 million, "SKAI" 56 million - I'm talking about the debts today - "STAR" 69.2 million, "PRETYPOSE" 44.6 million, "ALTER" 174 million, "ALPHA" 18.2 million, "ANT1" 187 million. Let's go to both parties: Four hundred twenty-one million is their current debt. Ladies and gentlemen, you are probably the last person to hear this argument. You are the colleagues from the New Democracy Party and PASOK. Since the 1970s, you have heard nothing about the complexion, that is, the phenomenon of Koskotta, the phenomenon of Chohatzopoulos, the phenomenon of Tsukatos, which gave the funds of the two parties, the phenomenon of Mandeli. Did you hear, ladies and gentlemen, about the 'SIEMENS' phenomenon? Have you ever read, studied the Munich Peace Court ruling, where it directly accuses Christofos and imposes a penalty, because it ensured 2% of those damned conventions, which are millions, on your parties? And he blames the then Secretary of PASOK, Mr Neighbourhood, and the then Secretary of the New Democracy - I do not remember his name, to see it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u632	Bartholomew.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u633	Bartholomew. What does this decision, which is the main 'grey' spot in the Body of Greek Justice and Greek society? For the first time it is described in a foreign contract, such as the Greco Convention, the history of this decision. There is no decision in the chronicles of the history of the Greek state, where a Greek party is denounced in a foreign court ruling. And he's right here telling us about the 2% we've committed to your funds and you're coming here to tell us what? Tell us, what are you going to do with your parties' loans? You have a rhetoric and a argument that nothing has happened, it is the 2% share of the "AGEI" blog and the transfer of Koumoundouros. This is the fault of the complexion in Greece! Here the Greek people invite you to say, looking at him in the eye, at last with courage and honesty, what you will do with your debts. You say 'we'll see'. You have since the autumn of 2011 that you don't see. We have in 2011, in 2012, in 2013, in 2014, in 2015, in 2016, we join the 2017 and you don't tell the Greek people what to do with your loans. When we characterise your loans as "loan and fierce", you say that we are expelling hatred, as Mr Loverdos said, and unscrupulous slandering. Simple question, as the banks are addressing the last Greek citizen: What will you, gentlemen, do with your loans? You're not answering. That's the answer we're waiting for. I have to tell you that whether there is a complex or not we are describing it - I will not mention now - seaweed in our finding and we are proving it. Crime is specific and proven. We hold a reservation and say that by investigating the finding by Greek Justice we will also seek the perpetrator of the crime. That's what's left of it. But can I tell you something? In all the major political trials it was never known from the outset whether the perpetrator was a political person. Look at the phenomenon of Koskotata, the Tsohatopoulos phenomenon, the Mandeli case, the Tsukatos case. After an investigation into justice, the proceedings have arrived in the House and we have decided on the lifting of immunity. Can I tell you something else? Someone is now "clicking" from the prison cell for the sins of " Henry Dunnan". Tomorrow someone else will speak of the crimes of "NOVARTIS". So it will also speak here for everything we see as crimes. The crimes are described energetically, with determination and evidence. No arguments, no arguments, no specific investigations, no findings are arbitrary, but they are heard in the relevant documentary tool, whether it is evidence, whether it is a witness testimonial, or a documentary document. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. You have even called into question the benefit of this Commission recommendation. Mr. Famelos said so very much. A total of almost one, except in the case of Brie, all the other acts of complaint by banks and actions by prosecutors for further investigation were carried out at the time of the establishment of our committee. The whole, except for the case file. What's weird? At a time when bank practices and transactions with parties or with media are characterised as felony infidelities and fraud, for bank managers and bank managers were not even passive or weakness. When we asked them persistently "it is possible for a felony not to fall within your research or your perception and not to be characterized as something abnormal?" they were shaking the head or pounding the head sometimes. That's what the bank managers told us. Couple of felonies were paying attention to them. And what did they tell us? That in Greece there was a party, which was so hot that no one listened to it or a bubble that had kicked the whole country and when it escaped, it smashed in the face of those responsible for its creation. So our Commission, with the publicity it has acquired, in its prestige, leaves a very large reserve. I say this very clearly and seriously. All parties look in the mirror and say with courage and sincerity to the Greek people and how they will face their own loan debt, but above all to say something else, that now this pathogen, this relationship of the three major pillars of Greek life, banks, parties and media, has to be changed irresponsiblely. We can take legislative initiatives to see it all together. However, the responsibilities cannot be omitted, ladies and gentlemen. You need to take a responsibility anyway. It's no different. We cannot go to the future, gentlemen, by deleting what happened in the past when we experience them today. It can't be done. How do we do it? In criminal law, after all, Mr Loverdos, you know very well that when we say crime and we all conclude it, we are detecting its causes and we need to find the perpetrator. Wait, we'll find him. Mr President, because I have heard from a New Democracy colleague that we supposedly terrorise the banking system and the media, I will say that terrorism from SYRIZA awaits both the banking system and the media! I understood it as flattering. And since I understood it as flattery, I would remind my colleague - I think he was Mr Stamatis - from Antisthenia and I am closing down: 'Criteria in the crust or as a cola. The gar dead, and the living saturation, which means it's better to fall into crows, because they only eat dead, than in clowns, that eat and live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u634	Thank you. Mr. Pallis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u635	I would say that we would expect no naives from tonight's debate on the basis of and developments in general, international developments, I mean, both throughout the world and in Europe and in our region, to have a serious debate, a position, which says that regardless of what anyone can believe and what political line and political view he has, he is aware of the seriousness of developments. Instead, what did we have today? We had a pageant on the line, pasarella. Who's gonna say the best line? The Prime Minister or the Chief of Staff Response? PASOK or this party? That's what we think is no accident at all. One of the same. Tiring and unacceptable acuity, contesting who will say the best clever, when what exactly is going on? Well, don't you realize that the entire capitalist structure is trembling? Where do you live? Does anyone not understand international developments? Here are you forecasts for 2019, 2018, 2020, what growth, how much growth, if we will be in a hard core - major conflict - in the drachma or in the euro, when the American Ambassador to the European Union says that there will be no euro in a year? We're not saying it might be like this. So we're at a critical time, what's it doing? That this system has rotted and the breathtaking smell is very deadly and that it also has great dangers for all mankind. It also shows one more thing: it can no longer be done by known methods, in political ways to overcome the crisis. There is an intensification of controversy, of international competition at a very large level, and that can mean - and that is - regional or even greater wars. We have reinforcement of the centrifuge forces both within the Eurozone and the New Democracy and SYRIZA are competition and competition with the other parties who will best serve the interests of this system. That is the essence of controversy. Dialogue is revealing. Why do you bumps, Mr. Teddy, but what do you think? First, what did you and all of you do? Third memorandum, signature. All together. Now, what's going on? What do you think? What does New Democracy and PASOK and other parties say? Push: Close the review. What does the government say? These are conclusions for the Greek people. But we've done it all. All the commitments we made, we've made. No, you didn't, the New Democracy says. But what's hiding, what are you all hiding together? That these commitments are for the Greek people hell literally and that you all know, and those of you and others, regardless of how the negotiation will develop and what the text will be signed, that new measures are coming. And these assurances that not even EUR 1 new measures and all the rest, in our view, have any practical value on the basis of cases, but on the basis of experience itself. What should the Greek people understand now? Because a new project is now being played. That the fight is about who's the best manager of this barbaric policy. SYRIZA says "I'm doing everything. I am told by the European Union. The International Monetary Fund is being shattered. A solution will be found.’; And the rest say, "No, you go, we come to do the same policy and apply it better" - an anti-grassroot, a barbaric policy. Now, as far as examination and discussion are concerned and the findings are concerned, we have had many examinations. So tell us, all of you, who swear on the exams, on transparency, and so on, what was the result? I don't remember how many they are. Eleven? Fifteen? What was the result? Did it get anywhere? Oh, no. But this examination is convenient. It is convenient both for the government party and for opposition. Because it is shifting central political problems and focusing them on the issue of complexity - I will say below what it means to be involved - with multiple objectives. First of all, the world is disoriented. But I guess you're getting bored. Take note of what we say: all this fight and all that is done here in this House, regardless of whether they give them the chance to gossip, they are bored. They therefore give the opportunity to disorientate the world, to move away from the main problem. There are other multiple targets. In our view, who are the most serious? Firstly, it is consciously concealed by all, by all parties other than the JRC - and I mean 'all' - the nature of the crisis. Why did we get this far? But, well, are you serious? We have been here with the EUR 1.7 billion of SMEs and the parties - the PASOK and the New Democracy, that is? Is that why the Greek economy went bankrupt?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u636	Mr. Paphie, will you please close up in a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u637	No, I can't.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u638	You won't be able to. You'll be able to do more.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u639	We only have one speaker. At least we're reclaiming a little more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u640	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u641	So I'm saying that we've been this far since that's exactly what I'm saying? Is that why Greece came to bankruptcy? The triangle of sin, which you say, has brought Greece into bankruptcy? Who are you kidding? Well, isn't anyone ashamed? What are these now? These are unscientific things. It's a capitalist crisis, barbaric. Yes, with new features. That's what you hid. The New Democracy reasonably hides it, but SYRIZA there played and went up to power. Instead of saying about the system, what did he say? It's not the system's fault, it's the manager's fault. If PASOK and New Democracy leave, I will come and make the mistakes of capitalism. That is what you said, and that is how you won both elections and the world. Here's the huge responsibility. When the world began to think that it was not the management parties - it was because of them, because they were serving this policy - but something rotten exists in the Kingdom of Danimarky, that is, in the system, you offered him the easy solution, which proved to be a tragedy for the Greek people. This is the greatest service and you continue the same hawk now. Even now, after everything that has been done, you say that all the capitalist countries, eventually, because of mismanagement, were driven there? Because of the media, the parties, and because of the loots? These are components of the system itself. Is there any moral capitalism without scandals? I am going to say a few examples below. The second and most important thing is the illusion you have given - and which is now the controversy - which you are now offering. This is poison in the progressive world and SYRIZA has a huge responsibility. You tell him what? We'll redeem him. So we will hit the complication - we will talk about how you will hit it later - and we will see the results. We will bring sound capitalism, as we say, both in terms of investment and capital, which will make healthy investments and will not be like previous government and all the rest. Fairy tales! These collapsed around the world. Any governments with any marks - right, right-wing, centre-left, left-wing - undertook to manage the system reached the exact same result. They can't, because the system is rotten by its very nature. It's corrupted by its very nature. Why? Because it's based on the exploitation of human beings. These are the great services you offer. So Mr Skourletis says that - now listen - the triangle of interlocutory, that is, the parties, the media, the business and banking systems have supported bipartisanism in Greece. Okay, are we serious? Is this a serious political analysis? In the United States of America two parties are the conservative - supposed - and democratic, Republican and Democratic. It's the same policy. They are changing over the years and they are serving the interests of monopolies with blood. It's a unique European phenomenon, he says. Well, who are you talking to? Really? Is this a unique European phenomenon? So I'm starting to say: Berlusconi: Is this a unique European phenomenon? He's a media owner. The Operation "Kathara Hands", the resolution of capitalism, brought Berlusconi to his takeoff. Shall we go down? Denmark: The Danish Commissioner for the European Union is a representative of an enormous, largest multinational in the world. Blair: Do you know what Blair's doing today? He is an broker of oil companies between China and other Arab countries of the Middle East. Schrader, Chancellor: What's Schrader today? He is a director of GAZPROM and president of a company. We're on below. France: We have suicides to fund parties. Germany: Soible, who is today the almighty in Europe, was not accused of illegal financing his party in Germany? Today is the god of Germany. Let's go down.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u642	Where's Gorbachev?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u643	Gorbachev is well known. He is in ‘PIZA HUT’. It's yours. We're giving it to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u644	Mr. Paphie, don't give it away when you don't have it. We're over five minutes. Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u645	I'm not giving up anything. I'm on it. Barozo: Here, now your Europe's escapade. How's Baroz doing today? Other information: Head of GOLDMAN SACHS. Are you telling us now about a strife between channels and so forth? Here, what is happening in the European Union and throughout the capitalist world. Since I do not have much time and because others have analysed it, I come to the fourth point: the financial system. We have also heard this from the Minister for Justice. Listen, the financial system in capitalism...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u646	Mr. Palphie, Mr. Dellis will talk about it later. How many speakers did all the parties have?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u647	Don't mess it up on me now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u648	I'm not ruining it for you, but we have to go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u649	The world won't be lost for four minutes. We had one speaker. Twenty minutes the party secretary spoke and fifteen minutes Carathanasopoulos went to thirty-five minutes. If we had three more speakers, it would have been better.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u650	And a hundred years of history.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u651	So we're entitled to a hundred minutes. So I'm going on to close this matter and I'm coming to the bank issue. Here's what Mr. Kontonis says in this Chamber from a left party. What did New Democracy - says - with this function and other parties? They changed the nature of the financial system and banks, which are institutions. Okay, are we serious? What are the banks? The heart of capitalism isn't it? What are the banks doing? They're picking up the cosmic's money-- I'm gonna just say it-- and they're giving the capital a simple hand. Who are the shareholders of the banks? They are the ones with the channels, the ones with the businesses, the shipowners, the industrialists, the entrepreneurs, all. So what triangle are they talking about? It's the financial oligarchy, the capital. Why are you hiding that? So what did you find out? Did you discover America? You and Columbus have left and the New Democracy that closes the eyes and says "no, Columbus did not discover America". What is it? Aren't they the ones who possess the wealth of the country? Aren't the relations between parties that serve this policy? Aren't they the media that they have? Is this awkward thing? Isn't it the very operation of the capitalist system? Aren't banks that give cheap money to businessmen and strip the world for a house or a loan? That's capitalism. What are you saying now? Are you telling us that it's a complex operation of the capitalist system itself? So I conclude by saying that it does not extinguish, but is overthrown. One last, because you say 'all in light'. The Secretary-General of our party said that they have three months of conflict and telephones. There's nothing. OTE's report says there was no issue from there. So some of them are. Who are they? Why don't you take them off? Who did it?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u652	It's Sorra.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u653	Don't rush, don't find anything else. So I say, why don't you take them off? Are there any skeletons in the closets that still do this job? Is there anything inexperienced? Is it any bones or I don't know what? I do not know what, however, an explanation must be given directly by the government as you speak of 'all in light'. Unless some mechanisms, in knowledge or not, continue what has always been done.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u654	Thank you. Let's get in touch with the process. Since we have decided correctly for a long time now that they will speak for six minutes, please, from now on, which either way had the three remaining parliamentarians and the others had seven. I would also ask the speakers of the circles to have six minutes to tighten up. These are colleagues and so on. Katsikis, Christos Papapas, Thanasis Papachristopoulos, Fokas, Lykoudis, Delis, Paraskevis, Danelis, Papalis, Javaras, The Guardian, Aivatidis, Giolas, Panagiotopoulos, Jakalis, Kegeroglou and Georgantas. That means the meeting will be over 2.00 hours after the six-minutes are held. I would ask that the procedure be continued in this way. It was a very serious process. Maybe he should have started in the morning, so there would have been more comfort. It is a very serious procedure, most of these colleagues have been present within the committee for months and now, they know it, are not coming out to say things. It would be inappropriate to limit the list. I would ask the Vice-President to take over and agree all of you in six minutes to stop. The meeting will be closed at 2 p.m.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u655	Mr President, you have made sense to me and you have told me after two speakers. How's it going to happen?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u656	All right, Mr. Pappa, get ahead. Then Mr Katsikis and then Mr Papachristopoulos. As Mr Papahistopoulou is in the same party - this is what this is about, you did not see it - I did not want it to be two in a row. When we do something, there's a reason. We don't do it. Come on, get going.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u657	I will begin with the Greek people and say: Greek people, you saw the theatre that took place here a few hours ago. You enjoyed the memorial puppets, or better to say Merkel's puppets, Barba's doll, Mytusi's doll with Cluvio and Souvlica, who was here, a theatre that one was putting responsibility on the other. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Anastassios Kourakis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] I would also like to say that I enjoyed the Vice President of the New Democracy, who is also a good orator, knows the Greek, who also knows Greek, who, in his attempt to convince through television, television the Greek people, said two great truths. First of all, speaking to the Minister of Government, Mr Kontonis said: 'What are you doing?' Meaning SYRIZA. "Do what PASOK and New Democracy did." That's a very nice confession of guilt. There's in the Minutes. You'll all see. You heard. No one spoke. Secondly, speaking again of the Minister for Justice, he says: 'Do you also look for wrongdoing?' You too! Mr. Georgiadis knows that for a party or for a "and" wars have been fought, there have been rifts and he did not say it by chance. He said, "You too." In other words, what a fine admission of New Democracy’s offense, Samara, Athanasios and others! Ladies and gentlemen, while we are talking about a lot of noise, there is the second assessment of extortion, that is, the International Monetary Fund and the Grexit Philology, namely the withdrawal of Greece from the euro area. It is a euro area where the countries of the south are plagued by unemployment with a championship in Greece. They are chewed by the austerity to such an extent that there are Greek fellow citizens coming to the point of saying today, February 1st, the first of the month: "I have had a 20s left for the rest of the month. But as long as I think we might have had a drachma and had been destroyed..." That is why I am tabling this in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Christos Papapas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Uh, no, we'll make it. You're not gonna make it, all of you memorialists, subjugate us. Because there is the Golden Dawn, there is the Greeks' national resistance. And if it is, gentlemen, to choose between the euro, the European Union and Greece, the Greek nationalists prefer Greece and the national currency, because the national currency and the complaint of the memorandum and the international audit of the debt are the only way to salvation. It is the only difficult path, but it will lead us to growth and prosperity. That's the only way we're gonna get our country back. We believe in a coordinate withdrawal from the euro according to the will of the people, as the Secretary-General of the Golden Dawn rightly pointed out in his speech a few hours ago, Nikolaos Michaliokos. Because this national currency for us is not only an economic choice, but also a policy. He said attributes that a state, which does not have the capacity to issue a national currency, is not a free state. For us, above all, national independence and national dignity predominates. At this point in time, therefore, and after the end of the Commission's work on lending and illegality of political parties and media - barons, i.e. pimps - the Golden Dawn by the competitor in the Competitor's Committee Ilia Cassiari has compiled a multi-page conclusion of eighty-page pages, where he detailed the truth about the conclusion of public money by parties, banks and the media. The main points to be made on the finding made by the Golden Dawn are: First and foremost, decisive, to abolish the law on the responsibility of the Ministers. He told you attributes and made his suggestion, our Chief, Nikos Michaloliacos. It can be done directly with the three fifths of the majority of the Greek Parliament and stop the cohorts between you, between Alexis Tsipras and Kyriakos Mitsotakis, the owners of both, borrowing illegally in the oligarchy of both money. Any public official can't be responsible and accused of infidelity, of smuggling public money, of blackmail and so on and the Minister or Prime Minister being irresponsible. Loans granted without collateral, illegally. They will never turn the loan unless the New Democracy tactics are applied, which told us that the loans will be repaid by selling brooks, commemorative and various such nonsense, the hay, that is, that you give your followers if there are New Democracy fans. And if there are such fans who believe this nonsense and support the ruiners of Greece, they are worthy of their destiny. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. If they continue to have the attitude of "go away" - because that is what they say, meaning Tsipras - "...to come the other Manolios", then Greece has no salvation. They result from the finding of responsibilities for PASOK, New Democracy, SYRIZA and KKE, for media companies. That is why our rapporteur, Elias Kasidiaris, told you at noon, and the Bureau, because, you see, it is wisely said by our Greek people, the Greek wisdom, that "Korakas do not make an eye". The four political parties maintained party armies and maintained party armies, manipulated and manipulated consciences and bought the Greek people's vote. You're guilty.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u658	Complete your thoughts, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u659	I'll be done. Ladies and gentlemen, I will tell you the names: Simitis, Karamanlis, Papandreou, Papademos, Samaras, Alexis Tsipras. These are the guilty ones. In conclusion, Mr President, I call on the Greek people who are monitoring us, even slowly, to resist the misinformation of the dependent media, to write with the only voice of truth, with the Greek nationalists, who have no dependants of oligocratic and international loan sharks and dark elites, with those who are persecuted because they have ideas, because they are clean, because they remain Greeks in a ruin world. Join us, take our country back. The struggle is difficult, but know that the law, the truth, faith always wins.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u660	Mr. Konstantinos Katsikis has the floor from the Independent Greeks for six minutes. Please respect the time, because we'll go by 3:00, as it turns out.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u661	It seems, Mr President, that despite the appeals you and the previous speakers have made from the Bureau on time, you have finally not told anyone. But I will do my best to keep him. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, the responses were made all night by this Step, especially by the colleagues of the New Democracy and PASOK, on the basis of why this committee of inquiry was set up and why its findings were not a conclusion to refer to a committee of inquiry, so that criminal responsibilities had been attributed, without any meaning and no meaning, nor the convening of the Committee of Inquiry nor the conclusion of it, which we have today been invited to discuss. We will see, of course, when the finding goes to the prosecutor and the case comes to the hearing queen, if criminal responsibilities arise, they are charged and they are finally punished. But I ask myself: if this finding ended up with criminal responsibility for political persons and went to an interrogation committee, would the SYRIZA - ANEL coexistence be accused of criminalising the country's political life today? These reactions continued by expressing the anti-population colleagues, a term which dominates their position, the notion of interlocutory. According to Mr Voridis, the dispute must also have a defendant, in which the form of the category justifys the concept of interlocutory. After I agree with Mr Dendia, who referred to the inventor of this word, Konstantinos Mitsotakis, whom I personally appreciate and respect, I would like to remind you that the then intertwined ones who called themselves a very strong Prime Minister at that time and unpunishedly remained, and whatever accusation they were accused of, went to the bronze and their impunity, those who accepted them back to that rampant party. They rose and finally ruled the place. So in that sense, I wonder: So the intertwined Tsukatos was punished? The intertwined Christophore, who left the country with the responsibility of Minister Karamanlis at that time, was he punished? Ladies and gentlemen, I have the feeling that the intertwiners who are today reveal the promise made by SYRIZA - ANEL to the Greek people, 'all in transparency' and 'no scandal hidden', they will not be rewarded by us with impunity, since they are charged with that responsibility - believe me - and their punishment. Of course, it is unfortunate that the leader of the Democratic Partnership, as Minister Kontonis pointed out, has been in the process of repaying the loans of PASOK - and the ninety-nine-year period, which is the duration of the realisation of the Greek property, not the divestment and expropriation, and in respect of a honour that the Greek state receives and something goes into the state corban too. Of course, I should like to point out that the main task of this committee was to investigate all - without distinction or exception - the aspects of parties and media lending. The committee has, from the outset, joined a strategy to combat corruption and conflict. Since postpopulation, of course under the responsibility of the governments and parties, they have never been researched into in-depth and extensive persons, relations, transactions that form the landscape of one of the most dynamic aspects of the country's political and economic life. The Greek people were informed of loans due to SMEs and reached EUR 1.3 billion and debts of the parties in the New Democracy and PASOK that exceed EUR 400 billion. For all this, however, ladies and gentlemen, answers must be given. It has been known throughout all the Greek that the main pillar of policy production has been the complexion itself for decades. Unjustified and privileged has proved to be the treatment of parties and media - or rather mass media, because I do not consider the man as mass, business, yes - in lending from the banks, as recorded in the rapporteur's statement. There is evidence of the existence and functioning of the ‘three-way interchange’, and the credit contracts are subject to breaches of rules. The Greek banks, in the middle of the economic crisis, did not provide for the introduction of a restrictive credit policy. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Give me some more time, Mr President. Thus, many powerful - among them the then power parties and media tycoons - continued to enjoy scandalous privileged treatment. At the same time, free professionals and small and medium-sized enterprises could not receive a loan of EUR 1. Uncontrolled lending to parties and means of communication, some of which were already bankrupt, further deepened the passiveness of credit institutions, which have been growing because of the crisis since 2009. The banks finally covered this damage through the recapitalisations, with Greek taxpayers' money. In principle, SMEs should be an important function in a democratic society. This is why, moreover, because information is a vital need for a democratic society, they are gaining enormous power. They are bodies of the free dissemination of ideas, the cultivation of art and science, the expression of religious beliefs, the direct information and information of citizens. It is a means of contact for people with public debates. It must in any case be a means of controlling the power and the way in which it is exercised by the respective rulers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u662	Complete your thoughts, please, Mr. Katsiki.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u663	Yes, Mr. President, all right. I've been waiting 20 hours. Time's down. I'm asking for your patience. I'll be out in a minute. But things in our country evolved differently. It has in many cases been a diversion of the role of the functioning and purpose of SMEs. By responsible multi-speaking democratic bodies have evolved into misinformation business entities - I am talking about mass media - interactive, sub-cultivating and degrading everything. Ladies and gentlemen, on this point let me highlight some of the main points raised by the Committee of Inquiry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u664	You've reached eight minutes, Mr. Katsiki. Finish, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u665	I'm closing, Mr. President. First, banks borrowed ‘air’ from New Democracy, PASOK and SMEs in order to support specific policies and interests. Secondly, the political parties borrowed through the administrations that themselves appointed to the banks and produced a policy adapted to the major economic interests. Thirdly, the consolidated and necessary collateral of the banks was circumvented and guarantees were provided to non-consistent borrowers. The need to monitor and monitor the flow of the loan products. Fourthly, they were accepted as manifestly false statements, such as that specific state parties have been assigned to other banks. I am omitted, therefore, from my written speech, Mr President, and I am closing with this: the purpose of this government is to restore the confidence of the citizens through transparency, which you are sure will prevail everywhere and which should have been the political account of all the democratic forces in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u666	Thank you. Mr Papachristopoulos, Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks, has the floor and Mr Fokas is prepared. Here are Mr. Lykoudis and Mr. Delis. I have received this list from the President before. Here, you have the floor, Mr. Papachristopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u667	Thank you, Mr President. The magazine "Politico" in yesterday's comment, without any rotation, speaks of a mud war between the IMF and our European creditors. He has an article really very positive for us. Yesterday's statement by Klaus Regling to the European Parliament: We are not discussing a fourth memorandum and there is no case for Grexit. I would also like to remind you that Donald Tusk a little late, he has realised that we are alone in Europe after Mr Trump's statements. Finally, I want to remind you that Diazelblum himself and he a little late found out that we are on our own, and of course Michel Sappen's positive statements. I say this because very soon, in a few days' time it is February 6, so we will see the IMF report, it is February 13 that the Eurogroup will prepare the Eurogroup which will be held on 20 February. I have no particular information, but my feeling is that this assessment will be closed. It will be closed without having to vote for measures after 2018. I have also heard the Prime Minister, but also beyond that, I believe that there is no interest at the moment in an oasis of security and stability and a real democracy, such as the Hellenic Republic, to upset her. It'll be extreme foam. I think that logic will demolish. We don't have to analyse what's going on on on this planet. We know that the situation is favouring us at the moment. Trump's views are assembling Europeans. I'm telling you, I want to think that we're going to win. I want to get to my point and say: I've been watching the conversation since this morning. I feel unjust, but where can I say my pain? Some are more equal in this Chamber, speak many times, speak for twenty and thirty minutes. This is not about the Prime Minister and Chief of Staff Responsibility. I believe that the Greek Parliament should at some point apply the rules of the English, the German, the Prime Minister of the country. I'm closing the parentheses. I mean, I heard incredible things. It's all respected. But I want to talk about facts. We've been through it recently. Let us see whether it is true or not, whether there is a conflict, or whether, as I have heard many speakers say, it is of course judged by what they are saying - it is 'cost coal' or 'there is no interface' or 'there is a show' and it goes on to say. Have I seen a dream? For example, on the Stock Exchange - to go a little older - was it a dream that billions of dollars were changed at that time? The Olympic Games which, from EUR 4 billion, had reached EUR 50 billion, were a dream, too? A little later, the equipment, and that was a dream? I could speak with details for hours about exactly what the word'misa' says in the gatherings of Greek citizens. She's intertwined with the Department of National Defence. I'm sorry to say that. Now it's stopped and there's no such thing. Is it a dream that the 'SIEMENS', where we have seen the 2 billion, which the Greek Parliament unanimously charged, will take to EUR 150 million to the detriment of the country's interests - and we have not even collected them - in the environment of the Prime Minister at the time? Is it, again, a dream of what happened to the Agricultural Bank? Only the building on Edward Law Street makes 1 billion and sold instead of 95 million. Thirty-three names were given without any guarantee of a loan. Is it a dream what happened here one night in Parliament in 2013? In his honor Apostle Kaklamanis voted against this shameful amendment. DIMAR, SYRIZA, the Independent Greeks voted against it. It was a big mess. Some old MPs must remember. He was presided over then by Yannis Tragakis. It was the amendment that made all the bankers 'oil' and which rightly said that then there is the moral automobiles of politicians. Was it a dream when the then Minister of Finance allegedly offered the stability of the banking system, when PROTON BANK was given to Laurentiadis and two top officials of the accounts opposed it, but Provopoulou decided to give it? All these people are confiscated today and Laurentiadis is out. Was it also a dream that then felony offences were committed and that these people came out? I could talk by morning. No one refused the argument: neither Kostas Karamanlis, nor Antonis Samaras, nor the one who invented the word, Constantine Mitsotakis. It was really a unique opportunity for everyone here to be together, because I believe that in all the parties there are pure politicians and should finally not be governed by the canalarch. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like two minutes, Mr President, I haven't spoken at all since this morning.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u668	I'd like to apply your urge for a British parliament and cut you off right now, but...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u669	I'm stopping if you tell me. I'm not saying anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u670	I'd like you to stop, just as the others will stop in six minutes to finish before 3:00.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u671	I will stop, Mr President, although I feel unjust. But I respect the procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u672	Thank you very much. You give a very good example. Your exhortation I can see that it's catching a place starting with you. Mr Focas will continue exactly in the same logic to establish this rule. Mr. Fokas, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u673	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will continue with the British system, six minutes strictly. I fear, once again, that a committee of inquiry, which started its work on the post-courts and branches, with heavy announcements of the cleansing and restoration of legality, will work about as a swimming pool of Siloam and will lead to mathematical accuracy in the further depreciation of our political system, because it is obviously a global originality to identify specific responsibilities for the birth and growth of the interlocutory in Greece, but at the same time not to have any persons to blame. Our Constitution ensures the principle of equality, but it seems that some people in this country are more equal than equal. Someone can't touch them, like they're protecting them an invisible hand. Perhaps the most important thing of all was that the Greek people were able to follow the work of the committee through the Channel of Parliament and draw its own conclusions. Ladies and gentlemen, the raw reality of what Vassilis Leventis has been saying for many years about the sarcasm of the interlocutory that eats the guts of this country has been revealed. I am sure that the Minutes of these meetings will be taught in the future at universities in the world as monuments of hypocrisy, covertness and tolerance. Repeatedly, my colleagues of the Centro Association in the Commission pointed out with them the endless 'part of' which had been set up for decades by the avadoxic treatment of parties by friendly media, with the shoe against political opponents, by suggesting the "sea-saves" of the parties now paid by the Greek people, following the famous recapitalisations. You all know by what methods white black was, the meat was baptized by the fish that Giannaras rightly describes as "competent in information". But for the system that still resists, responsibilities are confined to the loans of "KERYKA" Chania and to the so-called offshore of "AGE". We're dealing with the battalion, so the Greeks won't see the gangrena. Ladies and gentlemen, we are on the edge of the cliff, a country basically bankrupt, that survives with mechanical support, with a respirator, commissioned in terms of humiliating, nightmareous unemployment, with a working middle-agement for the majority of those who are still working, with our strongest minds gone abroad, with a damaged health system, with the insurance funds being plundered, and finally, if we want to be realistic, our national independence. Nevertheless, even now, at this very hour, we are denying the self-evident danger of finding ourselves in Europe's 'cutter' outside the common currency. We refuse national co-operation, we refuse cooperation, we deny partnership, the implementation, at last, of structural reforms which should have taken place many years ago, since the first memorandum and a long time ago. Unfortunately, political will does not exist. Mr. Tsipras only cares about the chair. This same chair is now fascinating Mr. Mitsotakis. The national interest is left behind once again in the interests of the sterile party interest. The hours are critical for everyone. Be careful, because history will be merciless with all of you, if this curse continues. Leave your ideological obsessed with the edge, the punctuality of referendum, your subtle references to the possibility of our return to the drachma and finally rule. Otherwise, there are no deadlocks in the republics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u674	We thank Mr Fokas, a Member of the Centro Association, and for the consistency in time. Z' Vice-President of Parliament and Member of Parliament from Potami, Mr Spyridon Lykoudi. Mr. Lykoudi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u675	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say a few more general things, since today's debate on the finding is taking place not only in the deserving political climate of absolute uncertainty that accompanies evaluation and the future, but - worse - and at the heart of not only unjust but also suicidal drachmas. It is time, however, that I have the impression that I do not have to stay on such general issues. After all, a fundamental contact with reality, the few colleagues in this Chamber and those who have stayed at this hour in front of television to attend the debate are obliging me to remain in a few remarks on today's finding. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not the first time that a committee of inquiry has come up with separate findings, because, as a rule, such committees of inquiry are set up with obvious political purposes rather than with regard to the abstraction of the truth, that is to say, to identify as a legislative body the bad texts, of course to condemn them, but, above all, to work together to correct them, to propose solutions that will make the functioning of the political system more effective and transparent. Because the institutional organisation of the state belongs both to political parties and to the free media, which are the nervous system of free and democratic parliamentary systems, that is, their irreplaceable components. Such an approach and an approach aimed at finding convincing arrangements should now concern us here. Instead, you can all see that once again that the House has changed to a arena of strong controversy which I think harms and further reduces the citizens' already little confidence in politicians and political institutions. Collapse wanted to adjust everything to the geometrical shape of the triangle of interlocutory, to demonstrate how disgraceful the system was, which, of course, made it in no way difficult for it - and how could it be? - to take over the government's helms of today's opposition - I think that is true - they would have tried not to have had this debate, because they really are in a difficult situation, since we have seen the abuse of political power from both New Democracy and PASOK in the past. In other words, it is also a plausible party loan with the known consequences, for which an explanation and a convincing proposal for the repayment of their obligations are required. At the same time, however, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot see a clear picture. There is a veil of hypocrisy and innocence with which SYRIZA each time invests the virtuous content of its actions. Is it true or not and based on the finding that the Prime Minister himself had asked for a broader view of the loan issue? Did the bank ads, for example, give up on the excellent newspapers with exclusive commercial criteria? Was the super-coast loans granted with guarantees of pasture on the basis of exclusive banking criteria? Did publishers stop getting public works? Do not pretend, ladies and gentlemen, we are now most people here and knowing from the past - none of the innocent doves. The new complexity and the new system are no different from the old one. It all changes, so that they will ultimately remain the same, as a French saying says. If there is any difference - which exists - it concerns the size class, since both parties that are judged and rightly criticised have been ruling the country for many years. But mentality, perception, methods, pursuits remain the same. The involvement of others is bad, ours is good. Why? Because the purpose justifies the means, because history anointed us, as the "first time left", to manage things and because we are right, because history tells us, and that is what we are expressing, etc.. We know that, through the same roads, we were also walking that perception very well. But citizens are not blind. The pragmatism, the fiasco of television licences, has greatly demonstrated an important aspect, unfortunately, of the new interlocutory. Geometrical no-forms are abundant and not just triangles. It is unacceptable for the majority to infiltrate phrases, as "the interests of the people have been reversed, written with the interests of lenders against the people" or "the people to rule the information" and all this very great reference to the meaning of the people, a people who have been tragically disproved, tragically misled, tragically deceived. Ladies and gentlemen, let us stop treating our political opponents and critics as enemies. This is how we divide citizens and society, we create conditions of hatred and unnecessary conflict. Ladies and gentlemen, this House is not a people's court, but a representative body of democracy, whether we like it or not. Whether the Prime Minister likes it or not, the citizens of this country will continue to read newspapers and, indeed, read the newspapers they choose. Don't make the mistake of criminalizing political acts, because it's a wheel and turns around. Let's get to it. Political responsibilities are taken over by the citizens and, as far as other responsibilities are concerned, other bodies are responsible. Ladies and gentlemen, there was no need for the conclusion, despite the number of elements that were brought forward, to form the view that SMEs clearly and clearly have an opinion, clearly attempting to influence the political process and political decisions. The traditional media "fourth power" were not accidentally named "fifth power", the current internet jungle, blogosphere and social media. Ladies and gentlemen, I have no intention of giving no sins to anyone, because I do not see any sins. It is naive to believe that it can create a society of monolithic. Society is a mosaic of various interests, individual, group, collective and expressors of these interests. It is foolish, therefore, to believe that SMEs organised on a business basis will cease to pursue political influence or to form opinions. The state's task is to ensure honest rules of play, transparency and accountability and not to reward the good ones and to sneeze the opponents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u676	Thank you, Mr. Lykoudi. Mr. Delis has the floor from the Communist Party of Greece for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u677	Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of the day, neither this committee of inquiry on the loans of parties and SMEs has escaped. From the beginning of the triumphant announcement by the Prime Minister, this issue was chosen by the government majority as a convenient court of confrontation with the New Democracy and the other urban parties, which, of course, rushed to snatch the pass. It is a controversy that the more it makes a mess, the more it is hollow. We have seen it today and even at a summit level between the Prime Minister and the Chief of Staff. In close proximity to the Nazi criminal Golden Dawn, wearing philosophical provia, has the courage to appear with the sword of cleansing allegedly in the system that serves as a fold dog, of which it comes from and from which it further simmers and feeds. You see, you have all had and you have every reason to take advantage of everything that disorientates and hides from the people, the main. What's that? But what now makes an eye, your strategic agreement, your warm response to the needs of capital. That's why you're voting together on the memos of capital. That's why you take each other's doll of anti-popular politics. That's why your laws are stepping on the previous ones and continuing on them. All of this together and all of you smuggle poverty into the people's backs. Together you fight and fight for the second review. Together you are blackmailing the people for their own concern, that is to say, accepting the heavy burden of the new anti-grassroots measures that accompany them. How, then, can this opportunity of disorientation escape you as well? After all, your today's fight - and the one that preceded it - is exploited among others and for something else: You are acquitting the capitalist system, simply incriminating at most - very certain persons. You take oil out its most vital part, its heart, the banking system, which you have recaptured several times on the hump of the people. Why did you limit the work of the Committee of Inquiry to the smallest part of the bank loans, to EUR 1.8 billion for SMEs and parties, and did you not simplify it to the most large part, to EUR 146 billion for loans granted to business groups, even when half of them are not served and are red? I am talking about large business loans and not housing loans, which many of them became a loop in the neck of the people. But because, quite simply then, the class of the banking system and the way it lends itself would appear in all its cruelty, which could not even be concealed in the work of the committee. When it comes to people's households, then loans mean mortgages, advances, interest rates at heights. But when it comes to business groups, then loans - and here we are talking about billions - are given by banks easily, quickly, at low interest rates and with no guarantees at times. In other words, money for the people, bad and easy for big businesses. Let's see those loans in the media. Who has these media? Do they have them workers and employees? Aren't they shipowners, magnifiers and oilmen their owners? How can the loans not be easy for all of them, when the bank's largest shareholders are even in this way also shareholders of the companies they lend? You entrust all of them with the objective information of the people! As for the favourable financing of the New Democracy and PASOK, which were borrowed by the state, the former state, the rural bank, there are, of course, political responsibilities. Of course, investigation into any criminal responsibilities is a task and task of the competent authorities. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to say that this tightening of political power with economic power existed, there is and will be in all the capitalist states. Thanasis Paphis mentioned some examples. That is, finally, the clamp, which produces the complexity, corruption and scandals. Somewhere, because of the inconsistent capitalist competition, but also for dismantling at one time, the lid opens up and then the whole mass of rotting a barbaric and exploiting system that rots openly and threatens the popular majority. This capitalist system is no longer healed, its overthrow is a one-way for the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u678	Thank you, Mr. Delis. Nikos Paraskeviopoulos, Member of SYRIZA, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u679	Ladies and gentlemen, I will only try to say what has not been said so far and I think it is useful. I will address two main issues, which are legal, but I think they are of interest not only to the lawyers but also to the individual citizens, particularly to the way and the extent to which the findings of the committee of inquiry are used. First of all, as far as lending is concerned, what has emerged so far? Obviously there have been signs of defiance in many cases. Infidelity is a crime by which anyone who causes damage to the property he manages, by violating the rules of management, and in some other cases may have occasionally arisen and some cases of fraud or fraud or false statement. Infidelity, then. What was said as an anti-business? There are few cases of infidelity, since in most cases, because some arrangements have been made, the loans are finally being served. This is wrong, in my opinion, for this reason: if a loan has been granted without guarantees or insecure guarantees, it means that the one who previously had the available, that is, the bank, in the position of the funds, now has a claim that is insecure. The risk of the property, which is caused by the precarious claim, is balanced with the current, if you want, damage to the bank. They, because it may sound technical, I can explain it directly to you with one example. If anyone has a real estate and someone else's making a claim, the claiming action puts the owner's property at risk. This, however, also constitutes a direct harm to the property, because if he wants to sell it with the weight of the claim, the price has fallen. The same has been reduced by the bank's assets, if it is available, and it has insecure demands. Therefore, the bank's failure and infidelity have been given data since the loan is entered into without guarantees, with insecure guarantees. There have been many examples: loans granted with pledged shares in the borrower and cases of multiple allocations of the same requirement for financing and, indeed, for the allocation of claims that were not even raised and could not even be created in the area provided for, as well as cases - perhaps few - loans without activity. Therefore, damage exists and the core of infidelity is recognized. In many cases the prosecutors will have a lot of work to do, at least for that reason. I'm coming to the parties' loans. It has been said that legislation has been made, that Rule 4446/2013, Rule 78, on the basis of which Parliament may well have gone into a regulation which whitewashes those responsible with an amendment of three Members of the New Democracy. "However, in any case, the criminal has now disappeared. We are done with responsibility for the lending of the parties.' This view, ladies and gentlemen, is wrong, even if it has been signed by prosecutors who, in my humble opinion, are wrong. First of all, it has been said that this is a matter of eliminating the lack of infidelity. It's not about extinction. "Obstruction" means extinguishing, and it is something that retrospectively occurs in something that it existed. There may be elimination in a case of cryptomenasis or in a case of limitations, etc., which are retrospective cases. But what does the present article that was voted on here say? That it is not unfaithful to lend to legal entities governed by public law or private law, but rather non-profit-making, since the planned procedure and existing regulations of the Bank of Greece have been complied with. In other words, the law says not that there is an elimination, but that the extent of the offence, the extent of the unfairness in exceptional circumstances, when these conditions are met, is closer. Are the exceptional conditions in place? Obviously the procedure was followed - internally - but a regulation of the Bank of Greece relating to lending did not appear to exist. However, it was obviously not respected, since we had all these cases of loans with no guarantees required. As soon as the conditions for exemption from the rule of infidelity were not met, infidelity also exists in the case of loans to the parties. At all speeds, I have to tell you one more thing. It does not close either with those political and criminal responsibilities for which there is evidence based on the rich material of this committee of inquiry for this reason: it appeared that the loans were privileged and dangerous to the banks without guarantees. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Why did the banks give it to them? Are they charitable institutions and give loans so without guarantees, graceful and privileged? Of course not! So why did they give them? Apparently, the banks had exchanges. Do you know, however, what it means to receive a privileged grant because a return is provided? This means that there is actually a case of bribery. And we must not forget that the bribery of our time, the systemic bribery, which involves no money, is the one that is done with sea-loving, and not the old-fashioned ones with the suitcases and the money-papers. Therefore, after the infidelities, privileged donations, we now have the material - thanks to this committee - to investigate later whether there were any exchanges, because, if that is the case, criminal responsibilities and also policies are heavy. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u680	Thank you Mr. Nikolaos Paradisepoulou from SYRIZA. Parliamentary spokesman from Potami, Mr Spyridon Dannelis, has the floor. Here, Mr. Dannelly, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u681	He's a registered speaker, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u682	Oh, no. It shall replace the Parliamentary Representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u683	I replace our Parliamentary representative with Mr Psariano. Mr. Colleague, the drop that breaks out is not here. It is not the drop that forgets over time. This is a great conversation that we need to have and agree that a party leader who has twenty minutes to speak one hour and ten minutes cannot speak. In any case, it is an issue which we must all see together and keep more time or at least keep - and that is not without - the time at our disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u684	You're absolutely right. I think we should look at it very seriously.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u685	I would add here, because it is of the utmost importance, Mr President, that we in the European Parliament should not forget that normal time of intervention in plenary is one minute and no one complains that Members are not entitled to express themselves. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, there is not a single citizen in the country who believes that a committee of inquiry is capable of getting the knife to the bone. Are we wronged by the citizens, or are we wrong by ourselves? I think the second one is true. And the second is true, because we all know what is happening, but we obsessively insist on the repetition of the same pattern. I referred to this pattern from this Step on 15-4-2016, when we met on the committee's recommendation, with these words: 'In recent years we have been following a large number of committees of inquiry. The list is long. We all remember their zero results: No understanding, even on the obvious, separate findings, some headlines and the subject is forgotten in drawers." I fear that we have again come to the same result: many elements, many hearings, many findings, many headlines, but nothing. The joint conclusion is still missing. And so the complexity of relations between the political world of the media and the banks continues to devaluate the political system and the parties. A major victim of this situation is parliamentarianism and democracy. And of course, the far-right parliamentary wing is rubbing. Interactions between political parties, media and banks are a triangle of interdependence, which is condemned in the words of everyone, but has never been dealt with by serious institutional tools. The "black" money, which moves within this triangle, in a peculiar form among its three poles, is a timeless pathogen and not only concerns relatively immature Greek democracy, is a global phenomenon. I am not one of those, ladies and gentlemen, who would easily say that with every media that closes, democracy becomes poorer, because not all the media serve democracy as well. Moreover, the various schools of yellowism and public prosecutorship, through smuggling or serious literature and channels and radios, have significantly poisoned the Greek society with messages of division, hatred, conspiracy and betrayal, diverting it from logic and leading it to the facilities of the anti-immemorial shell and everything that followed. Many of these kinds of enthusiastically continue their destructive work, of course, helping by the refusal of the journalistic world itself to impose the ransom, for public life, a code of conduct. However, the historical forms of "DOL" were linked to the political course of the place as forms that exemplified the liberal, central and central space. In fact, during the years of the acne, there was essentially an 'increase' of governments. And yet this historic group is currently leading to extinction, with permanent victim to the workers of the group. Will the parties, after the end of the committee, cease to understand their relationship with the state and the banking system as an area of immunity and non-control, as a field outside market rules, outside the law and iso-state, as a basic area of service to the political contributory? Apparently not. No, because we can't even reach a common conclusion. We cannot agree on the basics, tampered with our party shells. We all agree that this is a bad thing, but always of others, because ours, because it has good intentions, is not a complication. This generalized concept of hypocrisy on the part of a political system is read by society. That is why the river has tabled a set of concrete proposals. They are proposals that create a framework for the resolution and prevention of similar situations for the future, because we think that the best deposit of this committee is nothing more than to shield the political system with a framework of rules that will be strictly respected by everyone. They are proposals from the movement, which, from the very beginning of its establishment, constantly publishes its financial data for every major or small action, by a movement that, from the first moment of its establishment, was the victim of the unknown even then postruth methodology when they attempted to link it to illegal relations with a well-known co-operative and canalarch, without any element of course presenting. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I shall soon finish my thoughts. What if life itself faked at a celebrity? The damage to society was done. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not in any way want to devaluate the procedure of the committees of inquiry. I have no intention of denying the job done. But, once again, we are dealing with political responsibilities, by looking solely, almost obsessively, for criminals. But political responsibilities are not negligible. They're not harmless. It's not a serious challenge. We must insist on this by honouring the work of the committee and giving its findings value. However, we have to go a step further. Today the political system has to build relations of trust with society as long as it ever has. And yet, instead, he loses the opportunity, because the New Democracy and PASOK refuses self-criticism and for it to take over their time-consuming responsibilities, he loses the opportunity because SYRIZA pretends to be a donation stamp. In other words, the requested clearance as always concerns the dirt of others. The micro-party policy with short-sighted and naive defensive trenches prevents today from accepting a common finding. Thus, the long-term accusation of interlocutory will continue to be remedied on fair and unjust terms for public opinion and the clearance of political life will unfortunately remain unquestionable again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u686	We thank the Parliamentary spokesman from the Potami Mr Spyros Dannelis. The speaker of SYRIZA, George Papaliou, has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u687	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Committee of Inquiry was set up, on a proposal from SYRIZA and ANEL, by a unanimous decision of Parliament. In fact, the New Democracy and PASOK consented to this decision, sliding these two parties from the political climate and also the Greek people's demand that the system of interactivity that has been perpetuating and controlling the country for decades, but also that those who led the country to the cliffs should be sought and given responsibility, bankrupt and povertyed by the citizens, the great social majority of the Greek people. Thus, since the start of the Committee of Inquiry, the representatives of the New Democracy and PASOK have tried to deceive it, saying that the committee of inquiry does not know what it is looking for, that the majority of us SYRIZA Members, "we had" ex ante "constructed" the finding, that from the findings and testimonies the witnesses are not coming up and that finally "coals the treasure" or, "flooding the ball on the platform", inventing the supposedly complex of SYRIZA, who has been given a loan that is regularly served, but unable to answer the citizens how they have reached almost two parties to pay off their loans uninformedly and for which they have not paid euros for years and at the same time, giving no response to how they will repay their loans. However, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy and PASOK, what you have calculated proved to be a wishful desire. This is because the finding of the Committee of Inquiry is based on a multitude of evidence combined. In particular, it is based on findings and suggestions of the creditors banks and the Bank of Greece which reflect breaches of the Bank's credit regulations and the Bank of Greece's credit rules, irrespective of the detailed wording contained in them and which usually round things up. It is based on witness deposits, although they were extremely careful, on bank managers, especially for the period when they were involved in party and media lending, and so are the governors of the Bank of Greece. It is based on specific statements of media representatives such as Yannis Alfouzou, Giannis Kourtakis, Giannis Kourris, as well as others in an indirect way. I would remind you what Yannis Alfouzos said, that the channels do not pay instalments, that there was a involvement in the lending of SMEs, public works and advertising, that the involvement of banks and SMEs would not exist if the political system and much more were not involved. Giorgos Kouris said that no media was granted a loan, if he did not know it, and the Minister of Finance and Prime Minister and Yiannis Kourtakis did not approve it first, that there is certainly a triangle of interlocutors, that is, parties, media and banking, but that in order to function in an unprecedented way, the fourth factor, the judicial system is also needed. The conclusion is also based on the "Cryka" of Chania. Everything has been said by the Prime Minister himself and by other colleagues. Therefore, I am not going to expand. I believe, however, that the case of "Cryka" Chania is - with a phrase used by the Deputy Prosecutor of Economic Crime, George Kaloudis, in his conclusion of another case - a banking paradox and at the same time, I would say that it is the epitome of interlocutory. The conclusion is also based on the well-known amendments by which the Governments of New Democracy and PASOK carried out graceful acts or intervened in ongoing judicial proceedings. For example, the amendment to the file put forward by the Deputy Prosecutor of Economic Crime Giorgos Kaloudi. Finally, it is also based on positions of Vice-Population officials who, either by questioning either statements or amendments to honesty moments, had referred to scandalous parties' lending. I refer to the cases of the Lefteris Augnakis and Doras Bakoyannis of the South and the recent reappearances in the New Democracy of neoliberals, the Thodros Doulakakis, who have previously denounced the excessive lending of the parties. However, I should also like to make a reference to the former President of Parliament, Apostolos Kaklamanis, who, on June 6, 2013, had tabled an amendment adding to the House, proposing the abolition of the regulation of Article 78 of Law 4146/2013, which exempted all responsibilities from the bank executives involved in scandalous lending. This particular arrangement was made by Pap. Kaklamani characterizes an unprecedented scandal. To conclude, I would like to say that the conclusion of the committee of inquiry concludes that there was a triangular relationship between the old political system, the New Democracy and the PASOK, the systemic media and the banks. The banks financed the media, as well as the parties in question without collateral and with continuous refinancing of loans, which in fact led to "loans and unsettling". The media supported New Democracy and PASOK, which have been changing for years to the governance of the country and their political choices, to the extent that the public good of objective information and equal conditions for the promotion of opinions and the cultural upgrading of the people has become a single-sided vehicle, propaganda and cultural degradation. For all this, the conclusion of the committee of inquiry gives persuasive answers. In conclusion, this conclusion, which is part of the strategy to combat interoperable and corruption, to increase transparency in public life and to restore the price of the country's political world, is an important task. The SYRIZA Government is determined to continue and complete this strategy. The conclusion of the Committee of Inquiry is the starting point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u688	Thank you, Mr. Papaliou, SYRIZA MP. Mr Constantine Javarra has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u689	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, if one were to have the patience and diligence to read the finding that much has happened today, it would have reached a keynote expression used by the majority of the members of the committee on page 614 when it starts and makes a record of the findings of the investigation it has carried out. So there it says: 'It would be a political naivety to believe that, through the investigation of this committee, specific relations could arise. But it would also be political hypocrisy if anyone did not admit the existence of this interlocutory." Of course, no one has any more - after what we have experienced in a plural manner, with the tensions that have been experienced, with the diligence of the President of Parliament this evening - and the slightest reservation that what the committee, the majority of the committee, offers us is something that moves between political naivety and political hypocrisy. It is, of course, a political naivety to believe that the powers of the House belong to investigating the legality of private law contracts. This took place, with the majority decision of the House, to do this committee and it was obviously from the outset that this whole procedure was meant to end up in nothing. It took really seven hundred pages to describe this thing, which is summarised in two phrases: no responsible policies are detected; no question arises of setting up a preliminary special parliamentary committee to investigate whether there are conditions for the prosecution of criminal proceedings. All the others are of the utmost importance, and everything that has been said and heard has had no purpose but to serve the objective of this government which, for two years now, has done nothing but divide the people, to have led him into an unprecedented tolerance and misery. Through the possibilities offered mainly to her in this Chamber, she does not fail to slander her political opponents and create issues from the outside, just to have the pleasure of all, through the lies she hear, at least feel good because they live in true intent and, above all, in ideological zeal. But there is another issue that we should mention, because it is the hypocrisy we have said. But what has the government to date offered to this day is that it is the government that wants to restore morality in the field of politics and, above all, to halt all this tendency to commit and illegally financed parties? What has he done in two years to this day? What legislative initiative has it taken to allow this place and the country and democracy to be relieved of what the Prime Minister has now designated as the major cause of all the problems suffered by the Greek people, namely the existence of parties that were borrowing, granting or giving banks the funds they received from the state? What has he done so far? Nothing. The only government - Mr President, you will allow me to say this - which has indeed responded to this task and not only has responded, but has also taken the praise of Greco, the group of the Council of Europe of States involved in the fight against corruption, was the Samara - Venizelos Government, which voted for the n. 4304/2014, which abolished the possibility for parties to grant State funding to be borrowed. Note a detail of historical importance: At a time when this provision was tabled and voted on in the permanent Parliamentary Committee on Public Administration, SYRIZA then rushed to take advantage of the former regime and granted the National Bank the state funding it received by 2020 and entered into a loan. I ask: This treacherous conduct of preventing legislation, which, of course, if SYRIZA had done so himself, we would have heard it speak with these obscene words of dignity, morality and vileness of public money, at the very time when the previous government chose to restore what all of you of the majority have condemned and refined, you have tried and taken advantage of it before this provision comes to Parliament. From there on, what moral right are you talking about and what exactly do you have to present to the opposition? To conclude, Mr President, I will say that what we are particularly interested in, and what we need to apologise to the Greek people, is that for two years now democracy has been poorer, parliamentaryism has been downgraded, the representative institutions are constantly under consideration, in question by populism, which has left nothing in vain, by the populism of SYRIZA and ANEL. In conclusion, I will repeat the melancholy words of George Seferis: "The place is coming to an end. That's where this government came to us. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u690	Thank you to the Member of the New Democracy, Mr Javarra. Mr. Ioannis Theocrat, Member of the SYRIZA, has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u691	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, Mr Javarra, because we are looking for private contracts, are we not going to find anything? Is everything unreliable in private contracts? Not when public money is being abused. That's what we were looking for. Finally, after nine months of dense work, thousands of study documents, practical and testimonial testimonies, reached a finding of about a thousand pages. Two are the main visas: one is the majority, which we say has been involved and we have demonstrated that there were criminal, malicious responsibilities of the mistresses and bankers and huge political responsibilities of the political system, which are likely to be represented and criminalised along the way. Don't say we didn't find anything and that treasure coal. We have found and too - we have found malicious responsibilities, and we have demonstrated them and huge political responsibilities of the system that covered them. This is what the majority of the parties and the Centro, Potami, CEC and Golden Dawn have achieved, with serious differentiations. They acknowledge that there has been a conflict and a number of speakers from New Democracy and the PASOK. However, the central position of the New Democracy and PASOK, which is registered and in the finding, is that everything was well burned, it was all angelically false, bank rules were observed, no one was blamed, everything was symptomically, billions were lost, people paid without anyone to blame, there was an unavoidable change of circumstances and other strange things. The people have learned that they're doing black white, but now they've got a few years that people are paying for from their pockets. That's why he can't stand it. I'm gonna play a game because I like to see it in practice. If it were your money - and not if you were managers - would Mr. Vorides provide 200 million loans to PASOK, which says there is no complication? Who's gonna pay for this now? Old people pay for it from reducing CSCE. Mr. Loverdos, who says there is no complication, if it were his money, would he lend the New Democracy EUR 200 million? Who's gonna pay for this now? The pensioners you cut them 11 times the pension. Mr Metakis, who also says that there is no complication, if it were his own money, would he lend EUR 179 million to the Doll? And with courage he came and told us we were 90 years old. Let's see how much you're gonna be. We saw. Mr. Stamatis, Mr. Georgioda, Mr. Javara, you who were in the committee and say that you did not find any strife, if it were your money, would you give 161 million to the Pigasus? Would you give 115 million to 'Teletpo', 187 million to 'AND1'? "Gegassos" had piles of negative elements, "Tleetpis" 41 with a warranty of his film. Let the world hear you. If your money were yours, would you accept in the 'First Theme' EUR 45 million and be virtual companies or blowing away from each other? And how many more! Who's paying for it? The private officials of the gallery of five hundred euros, the unemployed who have been receiving a reduced allowance for a few months, the young people who leave abroad. But would Mr. Dendias and Mr. Georgiadis give 300,000 euros to a provincial newspaper that gets them and next week closes its function, as was the case with the "Preach" of Chania? It's a little bit. For 300,000 euros, are we going to be involved? Uh, well, what's that? Seeds. You wouldn't give your leader either. What makes me impressed by Mr Mitsotakis, the Chief of the New Democracy, is that he blames the public and civil servants. It has a flag that will relaunch the free market, the private economy. Is that how the economy works? We take three hundred grand, we waste IKA, IKA, and next week we close the newspaper and not to bother, is it a shame to mention it? He's the man who wants to rule the country, the Chief of Officership. Is that how he acted? Is that how the private market works? Is that how the free economy works? And 11 years, hello? Didn't anybody take care of it? Neither the bank itself? Is that the truth? Is that the truth agreement proposed by Mr. Mitsotakis to the Greek people? None of you would have given them. Of course, rhetoric was the question. If they were yours, nobody would have given them. They were foreign, they were the depositors and finally the people who recapitalised the banks. It turned out to be a mess, and we're writing these. We've seen signs and monsters. I, for a long time, have seen things that I have not expected. Other speakers have said it too: loans without guarantees, virtual companies, balloons, bamboo, collateral, liquidity guarantee that eventually gets it back, non-built real estate, movie shops with 400m euros. Incredible things! It is heard by the private collectors who are bothering them every day and appalling. And the witnesses testified it, so it turned out to be complicated. I am against the arguments of the New Democracy - I have done so in committee too - very soon. The conventions, then, are booze. There was a complication. The witnesses testified - many of them - but it was not possible to say 'he called me', as Mr Voridis now says. That's what happens and they're not said. And if anyone said so, the New Democracy gentlemen would tell him: "Where were you ten years and not tell us? You're proving what you're saying? Where's the other guy who called you? Bring him here to prove it." Let's not say such things. And the unavoidable change in the circumstances that they say is an argument - and let them see in the courts what happens when a citizen goes to invoke it - is not the case, because the loans were still being given after the crisis. And they also had the behavior that forever there would always be this bubble, that it would be forever in power with 40% and 45%, that they would always make huge wastes, that is, what they did with the country they used to sink. But even the extreme right, which even wants blood and has not been proven, is worse, because you're going to get some defendants, they're going to be acquitted with a feast and you're finally covering them up. I should like to close, Mr President, by saying that it is a comedian of what they say about SYRIZA, who has the only brief, guaranteed loan. And he had agreed that his loans would continue to be even if he didn't enter the House, it's like a murder beside you and you're dealing with someone who's going through the crossing with red and you say, "But he's going through the crossing with red, what's he doing here?" Next door there's a murder, and if you don't stop him, he'll have another one. That's how you do it. Swallow the camel and refine the deaf. So the question put to the world is: Who is it with? With those who fight the complexion or those who refuse it and so support it? With SYRIZA and Alexis Tsipras we are chasing the conflict - that is why the examination was carried out - and will we continue with New Democracy and the PASOK that support it? With us or the canals? With us or the New Democracy that owes the 200 million, does it not tell us how it will pay both the committee and today in plenary that it wants to go to the Ice Bay Attorney's Public Prosecutor? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u692	Thank you. Mr Ioannis Aivatidis, Member of the Golden Dawn, has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u693	Today's debate is of major importance in order for the Greek citizen to have confidence in the political insolvency of the four parties of the falsified constitutional arc under investigation of the Committee of Inquiry and from the result that they jointly worked to cover the responsibilities of political persons. In recent years of the prolonged economic recession, the political issue is the right and benefit of the Greek people to manage the economic issue by the parties for the purpose of restoring the economy and exiting the crisis. The New Republic and the PASOK shall not be entitled to appear as potential guarantors for recovery and development and reclaim power when they have proved to have a sinful past of scandalous and illegal lending by the banking institutions of the country. These loans, totalling EUR 400 million, cannot be repaid and the costs will ultimately be borne by the Greek taxpayer through the successive recapitalisations of the banks and the growth of the public debt. The root of the evil of extremism of the political actors and through the mass media is found in an act of the Governor of the Bank of Greece in 1991 on the Government of New Democracy when the restrictions on financing were replaced by the supervision of the Bank of Greece, which, with its criminal tolerance, led to the supremacy of parties and the media. The conclusion - confiscated by the Deputy Financial Prosecutor Georgios Kaloudis in March 2013, spoke about haunting the crime of malicious infidelity against bankers who contributed to the granting of loans, but also against the moral perpetrators, those responsible for the parties involved, namely the New Democracy, the PASOK of SYRIZA and the Communist Party. I stress that the Golden Dawn relentlessly adopts the legal correctness and completeness of the quorum of Prosecutor George Kaloudis. The reaction of the political system was then immediate, almost instantly, provocative. In April 2013, twenty days later, an amendment was tabled by three Members of the New Democracy, Dimitrios Christoyannis, Dimitrios Tsumanis and Dionysios Stamenitis, in which the verdict was overconvenienced and in substance disappeared, and the case was then filed. Noteing that the excessive lending of the parties, especially the New Democracy and the PASOK, continued during the crisis in scandalous terms, with the suspected tolerance of the so-called institutions, while the banking institutions depleted their rigour to the ordinary citizens who had previously been borrowed. Notable fact is the amendment tabled by the MPs Konstantinos Karagunis of Nea Democrat and Ioannis Koutsoukos of PASOK in October 2014, which introduced the incomprehensible and inextricable 40% of the state funding received by the parties in order to prevent the complete confiscation of the state funding of the parties. Scandinavian and multi-level illegality and media lending with a refinancing in the middle of an economic crisis, with fruitfruit guarantees that the so-called well-founded filmhouses of television stations and advertising revenues which would be used entirely for the repayment of loans. The media is well-known that for decades they have supported a strong political establishment and had active involvement in the sinful complex created by political parties and banking institutions. The neo-standard Communist Party, six and professional critic of the capitalist system, is uncertainly presumed that even if one accepts that it was not precarious, one had the full support and assistance of the major representatives of capital, banking. Let us not forget the sale of '902' to offshore companies, which is proof of the main positions of the Communist Party, which is anti-capitalist. As far as SYRIZA is concerned, it is critical and featuring the fact that in 2014 it received a loan of 1,5 million euros with the allocation of state funding by 2018. As a pledge of a guarantee, Koumoundouros property was set up, but was not legally owned at that time. SYRIZA, therefore, had the same scandalously favourable treatment and treatment from banking institutions with New Democracy and the PASOK. The sinful complicity of the political parties and the media mentioned above has only one adversary: Golden Dawn. Thus he turned against the people's nationalist link by stopping state funding and completely blocking from the media. In other words, the parties that formed an amoralist, falsified constitutional arch have excluded the financially impeccable Golden Dawn from state funding with specially drafted and photographic law, while the same abusive use of state funding for illegal over-lapping. It was the damaged criminal organization category, which abusively defended the Palermo Treaty. For the execution of this evil plan, the former Prime Minister, Antonis Samaras himself with taxability and a sub-world style, has found judicial officers to confiscate Golden Dawn MPs, as is apparent from a sensational sound document to be sought, heard and evaluated by all Greeks. All this comes to one thing: the post-government governments have gradually turned parliamentary democracy into parliamentary mafia. With regard to the media for decades - but, especially lately - they have been consumed in promoting the ethno-cultural and new order of things under the pretext of humanism, against national ideals, Greekism and Christian faith. The Golden Dawn, targeted at the national duty and the national ideals, has opposed this political lion. He has survived, despite illegal political persecution, imprisonment, political murders, irresponsible falsehood and confiscation, the interruption of state funding and the illegal exclusion from the media. He is honestly fighting for Greece of tomorrow, for the coming generations of the Greeks, for the Golden Dawn of Hellenism alone, with the aim of the National Century and the release of the Greek people from the ethnic drugs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u694	We are going with Mr. Ioannis Giolas, MP of SYRIZA, for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u695	Thank you, Mr President. The work of the Committee of Inquiry has investigated the legality of lending parties and media. The testimonial testimonies that had the opportunity and the opportunity to watch the pan-Hellenic, were revealing to the shocking. The cynicity and arrogance of some of the mediators may have faded out, but it clearly attributed the privileged way they were faced by the banking system. Without wishing to level and attach responsibilities to everyone, I will stand by and quote many instances of breaches of banking and credit rules, laws and regulations that have become a tradition, practice and regime in the lending of most media companies. In particular, the terminology of the relevant banking conditions was exhausted. Provisions: The forecasts received in the total amount of EUR 1.2 billion were EUR 581 million, i.e. about 40%. And what are the predictions for non-indigenous? They are the projected amounts of bank requirements, which the bank services themselves consider will not be collected. This cost, as is well known, has been covered by the ongoing recapitalisations, which have indirectly borne the Greek people. Uncovered risks: those loans were not covered by any type of collateral. This element is found in several loan contracts, of course the most favourable treatment of the hard-working Mid-Terms and the unpaid financial operators of the two parties. It was, however, what was rarely the case in the other loans to private and business enterprises, where the credit institutions were exhausted the rigour, taking the necessary assets and other worthy guarantees imposed by the banking rules. Another factor was the negative net position of the borrower, representing the negative balance of the company’s final value in relation to its equity. In a similar position I would like to inform you that after 2009 the media companies were normally in a position to be asked questions about their ability to continue operating. This position should have been weighted by the creditor banks so that they do not continue to lend their creditors, and thus the creditor companies in bankruptcy, closure and loss of work for hundreds of employees such as ‘ALTER’, ‘MEGA’ and ‘DOL’. Personal guarantees of the main shareholders or managers of the companies requested by the banks. However, they were usually not accompanied by frozen assets and were therefore valueless for the credit provided. A similar banking invention for the lending of entrepreneurs was the promised letter. What was it? It was a hollow, simple, written, unsubstantiated promise that the banks themselves did not under any circumstances count as risk coverage. One wonders whether these and so many other cases of overcoming bank rules, uncovered lending, tolerant, carnivorous and charitable practices are nothing more than some irresponsible uncertainties, as they have been described by colleagues from the Officerate of the Committee of Inquiry, but also now, in this debate. No, ladies and gentlemen, at the initiative of our Government, it was necessary for all the credit agreements of the Ministries to come to light through the operation of the Committee of Inquiry to be properly weighted and also in conjunction with those of the 'protagonists' of the creditors and atrocities, which have been followed by the Greek citizens for nine consecutive months. They heard about air, they got briefed on buffaloes, they got informed of the party he set up. Except the party was set exclusively for themselves. It was, in other words, for both known parties and representatives of the fourth so-called authority, where only the keys to the banks were not given to enter freely and take what they needed. Did the media owners happen to enjoy this privileged treatment? The lending of SMEs, excessive and unfair, but also illegal - as it has been shown - cannot be considered in isolation and individually and without connection to the current and the political situation in question alone in the light of purely banking data. It is known that a portion of the masters were primarily of entrepreneurial interest in major projects, so it had expelled the journalistic character of control of power and interest - as it were - to the extent that it was exhausted in the distribution of large projects and constructions. Others were moving towards the inclusion of non-legal bank money, enriching themselves individually, but cumulating debts to anonymous companies with only a risk of losing their worthless shares and intangible products, challengingly notwithstanding the hundreds of workers who were finally found without work. The question arises here: What is the evidence of the existence and functioning of the well described triangle of interlocutory? It would be unreasonable and politically naive to expect that it would be possible for there to be evidence of cases of direct recording of interventions by policies towards banks, or of obvious relations between politicians and media owners in an interlinked system of interconnected relationships. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Thirty seconds, Mr. President. Several mouths, however, opened up and are now recorded testimonies that brought to light specific information revealing the existence and extent of the phenomenon of interlocutory. The veil of silence and curtain were taken several times by so - called witnesses. Cases have been reported by my previous colleagues. Eventually, this Lernay Hydra of the tricephalous form or deformation of the interface over the years has been able to expand and generalize, establish a morbid state that ultimately opposes the political system, the public interest and the smooth functioning of a favoured and democratic state. However, the time has come when the nemesis and the restoration of democracy by the vicious regime of the post-modern democracy of the power of information, the favoured entrepreneurs of the major public works and ultimately the corrupt political system has come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u696	Thank you, Mr. Ioannis Giolas. The speaker of the New Democracy, Mr Nikos Panagiotopoulos, has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u697	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have noted today from the views of the Members of the parliamentary majority, and also of the government officials, that they have moved in their political speech towards a wavelength in which they had moved and during the first debate in plenary, which would finally take the decision by voting on the establishment of a committee of inquiry. A little too much they said the same things. An aesthetic, acute, denouncing reason for the evils of the interlocutory, the root of interlocutory, the factors of interlocutory, and some specific elements and findings - alas, the work of the committee lasted nine months - on the lending of parties and SMEs. But in this respect, that is to say, finding the responsibilities of political persons, there have been few things. The complex has been destroyed, but the intermittents have not been shown. That's a little-- that's a little too much. Of course - and it is a pity - there has been an opportunity, a great opportunity, to start an open one and - to say this - with a great debate on a truly comprehensive and opaque system of financing political parties. It could have happened. It could have begun. On the other hand, what concerns the government and the government majority at the moment is approaching insubstantially, slowly but dangerously, once again, at the edge of the razor is the account. The account I'd say is divided into lies and theory. When the theory is disgusted, lies collapse one by one. At the moment most lies have collapsed, but the account remains, adapts. The bill, of course, is already heavy and unbroken. The government, however, is there. Instead of adapting her theory to reality, she insists that reality should be adapted to her theory by dogmatism as if it were - and the government majority - the absolute truth. But the reality insists, ladies and gentlemen. You have, for example, been sorrowed in the fight to reduce poverty and in the meantime poverty has increased by a great deal. Today, of course, the first day of implementation - incidentally - of the electronic system for applying the social minimum guaranteed system has fallen. But we don't protest why we have Greek Space Service. You have committed yourself to the dismantling of public administration, but through your policies - i.e. enlargement and abundance of the public sector - you have brought more partyisation to public administration. And it's not over. You have taken oaths of honour to fight corruption in the name of the young man against the old, but for your day corruption has increased in the country. I have heard Mr Papaggiopoulou's explanations that there are now cases that were until now in the dark. It is because of the deterioration in the relevant list of 'International Transparency' organisation. But, I suppose, with this wisdom, when the country was fifteen higher on the respective list, it is obviously because, in the days of previous governments, all the cases were overshadowed and did not appear with this wisdom! The Committee of Inquiry into the Lending of parties and the Media was set up and launched in the context of a further government theory. It's the famous triangular relationship between political parties, banking and media. The political parties have an influence on the banking system to either ensure lending to themselves, or to provide loans to SMEs, which in turn will support those parties that supported them. Throughout this triangle, of course, SYRIZA is outside. That's what theory says. The Commission's findings have, however, shown other things. Let's see some of these. Firstly, the New Democracy had voted - I would remind you - in favour of setting up the Committee of Inquiry because it had no problem at all in seeking the truth. Such a problem seems to have had SYRIZA and the government majority when it did not vote for the New Democracy proposal to set up a committee of inquiry into capital controls. Incidentally, I would remind you that yesterday the case-file was filed after the completion of the prosecution investigation and it did not have to be forwarded to Parliament without delay, because there was obviously no cross-check of the case with a political person. One, obviously, General Manager of the Ministry had signed the decision to impose capital restrictions in the country in July 2015. Very interesting, and I'd say very peculiar. Secondly, New Democracy regulates its borrowing obligations, limits its operating costs, houses its finances and has already passed a law that limited state funding in 2014 despite the fact that it was making it more difficult for its financial situation when it was government. Of course, it does not recommend any favourable treatment, in my view, of quadrupling the loan rates from a bank throughout this period. Thirdly, all parties - and SYRIZA - received bank financing with the same rules, namely, a guarantee of current and future funding. That was an exception to the JRC. It would be really extremely interesting to see the service of SYRIZA's loan obligations after the next elections. Like also, it is interesting that the only party that has asked for bank borrowing without the standard credit criteria being met, and indeed by letter from his own Prime Minister and Chief, Mr Tsipras, is SYRIZA. So this is about the parties. As far as the media is concerned, I'm late. The first finding, the exposure of the banking system to non-performing loans for the SME sector, is one of the lowest in the sector. In other words, loans had been granted with more likely liabilities to enterprises in other sectors than SMEs. But, of course, it is important to create impressions. There was a discrepancy in the lending behaviour of the banking system, the Bank of Attica. We know very well what happened with the Bank of Attica, its shareholder composition and the loan, which it issued to a government contractor, in order to attempt to obtain a television channel licence through the tender, which had emerged on the basis of an anti-constitutional Pappa law.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u698	Please complete, Mr. Panayotopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u699	I shall conclude, because I think that the debate and the issues of the 'NATIONAL KERYKA' have already been exhausted. It is now obvious that all this effort was made to smash the face of the Chief of Officer's Response. I conclude by saying: The evidence examined by the committee during these nine months of its work has shown evidence justifying the transmission of the file to the public prosecutors for further investigation into the search for the liability of natural persons. However, there has been no intervention by political persons, and therefore the respective political or criminal responsibilities for lending to SMEs have not arisen. They have not proved to be politically responsible. Now the issue moves away, how the New Democracy will pay the loans or what will happen with "Karyka" or other, because that was the goal from the outset. In the difficults ahead, the government's regular manoeuvre is to poison consistently and with increasing intensity political confrontation to cover its clay, fatal weaknesses. And that's the only safe finding that can be extracted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u700	Thank you, my colleague. Ladies and gentlemen, four other speakers have left. I would ask that we be a little consistent in time. Mr. Charilaos Tsakalis, MP of SYRIZA, has the floor for six minutes. Then, Mr Kegeroglu, you will give the good example of the consistency of six minutes. Here you go, Mr. Jamaklis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u701	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the setting-up and operation of the Committee of Inquiry has worked positively, as the reflexes have been activated not only of the supervising Bank of Greece, but also of the credit institutions vis-à-vis the debtors, parties and SMEs. The supervisory bank of Greece, up to a few days ago, drew up and sent findings to the committee, and the lending banks, on the one hand, closed the cannon of uncovered financing and, on the other hand, the procedures for regulating or collecting the amounts due began. In this example, the case of "KERYKA" Chania of the Mitsotakis family, which, for almost ten and a half years, had not paid a single euro to Piraeus Bank, prompted during the work of the Committee to regulate the loan. After completion of the committee's work, the judicial and public prosecutors, who will specialize and personalise any offences committed and may exercise criminal proceedings, will now take place. They have invented and invented wisdom, namely arguments and reasoning, which attempt to deceive, but in vain, to convince that the treasure proves carbon. The findings, ladies and gentlemen, of the New Democracy and of PASOK, are not degraded because you say so. There was a triangle of interlocutors and he reigned for many years. Did you expect bank directors to come to the committee and incriminate themselves by "yes" answering your usual question if there was political intervention on loans to your parties and the media? Did you expect the media owners to come to the committee and incriminate themselves by replying yes to your usual question 'if there was political intervention on loans'? To serve the same purpose, namely the degradation of the Commission's findings, the effort of the PASOK rapporteur to justify the excessive and uncovered lending of SMEs, by introducing the criterion of the percentage of these loans against uncovered loans to companies in other sectors. By a classic sophisticated method, it stresses the fact that the red loans of SMEs represent a very small proportion of the total business red loans. It has, of course, prevented the fact that the number of SMEs touches only two dozen, while the companies of other sectors are tens of thousands. It also silenced the fact that SMEs’ enterprises are naturally interested in the Constitution, contrary to undertakings from other sectors. Colleagues from the Anti-Population Officer's Party attempt to equate the "sinces" of the New Democracy - in introductory terms the word, in order not to misunderstand, Mr. Dendas - which owes 215 million euros, has not paid even a single euro since 2011, but also the case of "drugs" Chania with three issues relating to SYRIZA: the letter Tsipras to the National Bank, the building of Koumoundouros and the Cypriot foreign company that obtained a 2% increase in the Official Journal's share capital. But, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, it cannot be done first of all because the figures are uneven. The two parties, New Democracy and PASOK, together, owe EUR 401 million. SYRIZA owes 7,975,000 euros. Secondly, because SYRIZA has been serving its loan from the National Bank, contrary to both parties, which, as I said before, have not paid any euros since 2011. Thirdly, because the loan of SYRIZA is fully covered by a single transfer of the state grant and in addition by undertaking not to divest its property, unlike the two parties whose loans are uncovered, because the multiple transfers to various banks cancel the first one. Ladies and gentlemen, what has been revealed in the committee of inquiry is the collective belief that the attempt to build up the moral advantage of SYRIZA and, by extension, the government is a vain effort of the parties to the conflict and falls into the gap. The apparent loss of control over SMEs and their manipulation of public opinion has shown the phenomenon of supposedly defending freedom of press and pluralism in informing the most time-consuming parties of interplay. It has manifested the vicious phenomenon of fighting the supposedly new complexity of SYRIZA - ANEL. We all remember the late amendment of the three New Democracy Members during the vote on an investment law, which exempted from the possibility of prosecuting malicious infidelity the members of the administrations of the banks that had granted loans to the two parties. But now that the malicious infidelity is derived from the findings of the Bank of Greece inspectors, how will they be relieved of the possible exercise of criminal prosecutions? The attempt to break the triangle of interlocutory, in which the Committee of Inquiry has contributed to the maximum, continues and will be completed because it concerns democracy, parliamentary affairs and institutions itself. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u702	Thank you, Mr Jamaklis, and the consistency in time. The consistency will continue with Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglu, who will also speak less than six minutes, as far as I know.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u703	Only two minutes to go, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u704	Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u705	Ladies and gentlemen, I begin with a report that has to do with a position taken by a previous colleague, who accused the Bobola complex of having to pay, does not pay its credit obligations, and I would like to remind him that in April 2016, this operator was given a loan of 80 million. If, then, this was the case, why was this funding granted? Also, why were the 107 million granted to Kalogrisa for the period 2015-2016 without guarantees, as they say the figures made public? There's a lot of lies in this whole story. There is a lot of script that poisons society, the new generation and leads it to the best case in inertia. The deception of citizens was totalitarian. Five years before 2015, Mr. Tsipras presented magic solutions, which disappeared as soon as he came to power. Of course, by an antimony of 'Go back, Mrs Merkel' and 62% 'OF', she became the subordinate to Europe's extreme circles. He loaded the country with the third inappropriate memorandum, with EUR 12.5 billion overtax and a cut in social costs. Greece has been back for at least three years and is now flying without a national strategy between Grexit, the drachma and new painful measures. The political collapse of SYRIZA/ANEL is universal and intensified. The last impediment of the government propaganda before signing everything 'in the four', as Mr Kammenos says, is the revocation of the old. Instead of devaluing the progress made in our homeland, ladies and gentlemen, during the Migration, to justify your falseness, inability and risk, take Mr. Tsipras' pen! Take the pen, 'cause he's signing everything. He signed a hundred years for the superstition. He wants to tie up Greece manually after a hundred years. You are propaganda that forty years it is all for you at the same time that you are adopting and reproducing the pathogens and bad texts, which have also been in post-population, and you have also incorporated them as your executives - many of them MPs and ministers as well as managers - those who have identified them with the pathogens. And because I have seen many Members from this category applaud Mr Tsipras' position here today against PASOK, I would like to say that we, too, have set up a special exam and are looking to see what really happened to the sum that was borrowed. We have forty examples - the ex-presidents of PASOK, who took the political chapter with them and left behind the debts that account for them. I want to put it in the Minutes and get a copy of the parties to be given to it so that they can be informed, because they can't really come here and applaud many of the managers of this situation. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And more I saw Kurubli. You saw him, didn't you? Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased that this representative of old-fashionedism and opacity is applauded! In its examination, the Government sought to establish a special court. He opened a pit for the opponents, but she fell in. The only means of communication that he used a political leader to get loans without bank criteria was "AGEI", by letter of Mr. Tsipras. If another political leader had done so, these hundred and fifty three colleagues who were here today would have eaten us. They'd have lynched him. Now where was Mr. Tsipras, as if nothing was running, they didn't say anything, nor that he was wrong. Mr. Tsipras didn't make self-criticism. Nothing. Of course, "AGE" is the only party newspaper that has offshore. But it does not say who the person representing her is. We remember the story with the contractor's loan with orders from above to make the TV through the Poppa project. If he did this to another party... That's a complication. That's if it's proof. Mr. Pappas didn't take the floor today. We have asked him five questions to answer from where the Davarakis are being paid, the hundreds of Davarakis who are propagandad for the government. One hundred and twenty is only in the Department of Defense. Where are they paid from? The only party in which he cut 60% of his debt is SYRIZA, the ASSOCIATION. It's a 60% haircut. No criminal responsibilities have those who did it? They're subject to a specific arrangement, aren't they? To do the same in business, homemade and citizens' consumers. So we're coming to see the falsification of evidence. Because colleagues in the Committee of Inquiry have found nothing in relation to the political and criminal responsibilities of politicians. And in order not to be characterized as chaos, they have distorted, as Nikos Salayannis says in his letter, a lot of what he testified in order to make charges. All this, of course, is moving towards a more general falsification of the country's history, which is attempting specific centres with which the government cooperates. The counterfeiters, the slanders argue that Postpopulation, the best period of modern history in Greece, destroyed the work that had been created in the previous period. What period? During the dictatorship of Metaxas, World War II, the German Occupation, the disastrous civil war, royal coups and the seven-year-old dictatorship. If you can support such things. And this is where, unfortunately, there is also one side of the New Democracy coming in and helping them out. Instead of politically justifying their failure, even their failure, in the context of a due self-criticist attempt - this side - to cover the cause of the crisis, the derailment of the five-year period 2004-2009. This has a political explanation. What SYRIZA is doing today is done then. And that's not all. Do self-criticism and not other vicious policies. That's what this is about. Ladies and gentlemen, on the basis that we do not ignore the positive contribution of other post-multiple forces, we must say that the democratic party was the protagonist and wrote history. Yes, PASOK closed the wounds of the civil war and definitively abolished the certificates of social opinions. It founded the social state, social justice, the National Health System. He built schools, universities, research centres, hospitals, health centres, KAPH. It gave a decisive boost to growth by strengthening small and medium-sized enterprises, with agricultural production and regional development. He gave voice and strength and real dignity to the until then excluded. Mostly, however, Greece has acquired prestige and respect for Europe and the world. Yes, the PASOK of the 1990s created the ASAP, the Citizens' Counselor, the other independent authorities, the JEPs, the full-day school, the EASA, the "Help to Home" and the social structures. Reconstruct self-government. Design and implement the country's major infrastructure. It led the country to the Eurozone, to the twenty-three strongest countries in the world. Yes, PASOK, when it received a derailed country, was struggling to face the crisis with everyone against the squares of the so-called indignant and most importantly responsible to silence indifferent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u706	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u707	I shall conclude, Mr President. In the midst of the crisis, therefore, we have moved on to reforms to address the causes and distortions that caused deficits and debts. And we must continue this today. I refer to the 'DIAGY', the e-prescription, the EOPYY, the financial prosecutors, the Independent Authority to deal with Corruption, the 'CALL'. We planned and legislated and started research on hydrocarbons when some were still talking about carbohydrates.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u708	Finish, Mr. Kegeroglu. You've exceeded your time by three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u709	Thank you, Mr President. The rest I'll put it in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u710	Thank you very much. Mr Georgios Georgios Georgios, Member of the New Democracy for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u711	Thank you, Mr President. I'll keep it for six minutes, because I think that's what we need to do right now. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have followed the positions of SYRIZA and ANEL Members, and I have found a record there, which is based on very easy legal acrobatism. Loans that are not served have been poorly received. There are criminal responsibilities of different persons, while loans which are served are exempt from any liability may have been at the time of their conclusion. It's too simple to accept. That was not the role of the committee, nor is it the level to be taken in plenary, and there should also be in the committee's meetings on the investigation of the issues which we had undertaken to do. What the committee had to see, but rather it was starting with the wrong starting point, was whether the loans to the parties were granted at the time they were given, were actually granted with the rules that were in place at the time, if they were guaranteed, if we had any infringement of the existing legislation and if that were the case, if there were any intervention by a political person to that effect. On page 382 of the SYRIZA's conclusion, it is precisely in the chapter where there are loans from this party that SYRIZA has followed this rule - that is exactly what it says - that political parties want to borrow as a guarantee for future state funding. This is your admission on page 382. So, in the same way, they were all borrowed. Now, there's a matter. New Democracy loans are not served, he says, and if this is criminally evaluable. Let me see why it's criminally evaluable? What was the time when these loans were granted - they have all been admitted and are also shown by documents - the total government funding for all parties on the basis of budgetary revenue and the legal status of that period was very increased. All parties distributed 60, 70 to 80 million. This amount was variable because it was also about budgetary revenue, but also about whether one year had an election or not. On the basis of this data, and given that funding for the New Democracy was close to 20 to 25 million, you understand very well that a loan - which at the time the New Democracy debts were under 100 million, the rest that has emerged so far are essentially from disruptions, from interest capitalisations, from interest on late payment - was precisely the allocation of state funding for four years. That's what you just did. In other words, you also sold state funding for four years, but also for five in one case, that is, you have exceeded four years. This state funding, therefore, is so increased, for two very important reasons - one is irrelevant from the New Democracy's choice - it has been reduced. The first reason, therefore, is that the State's revenues were reduced. As they had increased since 2000, and that is why state funding from a total of 30 or 40 million has reached 70 or 80, thus reducing revenue, this State funding has been reduced. But the most important legislative intervention to really reduce the amount of funding was the legislative initiative of the government of Antonis Samaras, which reduced the percentage of state funding from 1.02 to 0,08. In short, you shot our legs. And will you come and tell us that because you have not served the loans, which are not served, because we have decided ourselves and reduced state funding, that we have responsibilities for this? State funding was the only instrument for all parties, with its guarantee and delegation, so that they could borrow all the previous years. This does not mean, however, that since those conditions changed, you are given the opportunity to speak of criminal responsibilities, and you were borrowing in the same way. And here too, evidence has been revealed that you have also exceeded these limits in relation to the pressures you have exerted on banks. I can't get over Kumundur's property, and I can't get over it for two reasons. As some dates have been mentioned, when in 2016 due to the Committee of Inquiry some moves were made on the basis of the amounts due on the loans, to say that only in March 2016, on 21 March 2016, the request was made for the relocation - how he says relocation - the change in the notes to the books of the Athens Mortgage on the property of Koumoundouros, which for me is legally nestled. And only on November 14, 2016, the E9 was registered and the tax due on large real estate was paid. But that's why Mr. Tsipras from this Step on April 15, 2016, on the day that the committee of inquiry was decided, do you know exactly what he said? That is all I can read and I shall end, Mr President. "But do you have the courage, Mr Mitsotakis, to compare the loans of the New Democracy with the loans of a party that at the time of the thick cows, which Parliament decided to grant 80 million euros of state funding, had it 3% and of course, for the loans it received, put a mortgage on the party's offices in Koumoundouros Square?" Is there a bigger lie than that? In 2013 a mortgage on Koumoundour's property that passed SYRIZA's property in 2016? It is a lie written and imprinted, which shows the intentions of the SYRIZA side for this committee of inquiry. It is on page 8498 of the Minutes of 15 April 2016. Mr. Tsipras even has deceit in the mortgage record. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u712	Thank you very much, Mr. Georgioda. Last speaker is Ms Theodora from the Centroon Association.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u713	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are here today to discuss, analyse, but above all to explain to the Greek people the results of the Committee of Inquiry into the lending of parties and the media. The establishment of the Committee of Inquiry in April 2016 did not simply find all political parties at that time, but mainly after the strong and clear demand of the Greek people. Greek citizens have seen their incomes disappear since 2009, their properties evaporated, and after seven years of endless crisis, and three memorials have obviously been and have been required to know exactly where so many millions of loans have been channelled by the banks, for which all three of them have been recapitalisations until now, let us not forget that the Greek economy, the Greek taxpayer, has been burdened by 30 billion euros. The most shocking, indeed, is that while we had a Memorandum of Understanding, funding continued on suspicious terms and without guarantees to parties and the media. Therefore, on the one hand, we have a Greece which is virtually bankrupt, with the majority of Greek citizens failing to pay its obligations every day, and on the other hand we have all the banking institutions which have been lending to parties for years, the media, practically without any guarantee at all. We have, on the other hand, Greeks who are struggling for and because of a minimum loan, they are trying to join the law on debts and, on the other hand, on the other hand, diffuse ones, who received just air loans. Rightly so, both we, the members of the Greek Parliament and the Greek citizens, have waited with great interest for the conclusions of the Committee of Inquiry to finally shed light on the shadows of the corrupt system. So, after nine months of meetings, a hundred and eighty hours of work and an examination of twenty-nine witnesses, including the most famous Greek media shareholders, I ask: What was the result? Absolutely none, ladies and gentlemen. No matter how frustrating this is, once again, we didn't get the knife to the bone, it didn't fall, we didn't find the beginning of the thread. On the contrary, we have heard and read a lot of interesting things, but they have not resulted in specific political responsibilities, but also in clear responsibilities in the bank's leaderships. Naturally many have heard witnesses who have said that there is of course a connection in Greece, as well as that friendly relations play a role in lending and that political acquaintances are decisive. None of this, however, we can't hear it for the first time. I ask you: which Greek does not know that there was a connection in Greece? But, I ask: was that what this was about? Can we see the existence of this phenomenon? Of course not. Let us not continue with the same hypocritical attitude. The sole purpose of the Committee of Inquiry was to identify and lead to specific persons involved in the complexion, which we all know exists. But that, of course, did not happen. The Committee of Inquiry was led to different conclusions from the majority, i.e. the Government, and the Minority, i.e. the other parties. Each party has made its own findings, which do not help in finding out the truth at all. And the truth is that as long as the committee of inquiry was looking for the persons, who are responsible for the collapse of the banking system in Greece, who created the powerful triangle of power between politicians, media and banks, Greek citizens are still experiencing unprecedented situations. Every day, more and more Greeks cannot pay the bills of electricity, they have no heating and they are deprived of even the basics of their food. Poverty each day extends to more of our fellow citizens. Even the Bureau of the Parliament's Budget Office finds a reduction in poverty. And while businesses are shutting down and leaving abroad, and citizens are barely surviving, then creating new debts, we have also read the new leaks to the International Monetary Fund proposal, one of which is to stop the protection of first home, to solve the problem of red loans at last, namely not to have a problem with red loans, since homes will be auctioned. This will strengthen the banks and the banking system. It is absolutely outrageous to sacrifice the first and often the only residence of thousands of people and families, to make them homeless, because they owe 1,000 or 10,000 euros or have paid half or 3⁄4 of their loan, but without those who cannot continue to pay because the crisis has led them to become unemployed or their incomes to fall. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] Give me a minute, Mr President. At the same time, the parties, having owed 420 million of loans to them, are given that they will never repay and no auction will take place because they have not given any collateral, no mortgage. Perhaps the Members of these parties should put their own property as a mortgage or pay with their own money. Because when the parties received the loans, they knew why they were receiving them: to remain in power. In other words, while we are sacrificing our people, who are unable to pay their bills and who have always received loans with mortgages on their homes, we have completely relieved the parties and the media of any responsibility. And I ask: why can a small borrower, whether a legal person or a natural person, if he does not serve his loan, be registered in Tyresia and can't get another loan, can't make any contract, while the parties that didn't serve their loans for years have not been in Tyresia and have continued to receive new loans? And here comes the great disappointment about the outcome of the committee of inquiry, as there were increased expectations of the work it has undertaken. Of course, from now on, we are hoping and relying on Greek justice, which undertakes to clarify this list of information, testimonials and documents, in order to determine whether and where criminal responsibilities can be attributed. However, let us not forget that justice will have to deal with a number of legal problems in its work, since this unscrupulous, corrupt system has made sure, on the one hand, that political responsibilities under short limitations, such as the law on the liability of ministers, and on the other hand, that any responsibility of banks, with Law 4146/2013, which exempted the administrations of the banks from the responsibility of the loans they granted.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u714	Please complete, Ms. Big housekeeper.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u715	I shall conclude, Mr President. Why was that law? Perhaps because the bank administrations were talking, so we would see if there was a political complication. If, then, a conclusion has been reached by the committee of inquiry, it is that sepsis, corruption, past customer relations are well kept. The system that has created these illegal practices is fully protected, because it is essentially what is still in charge and has a position of authority. Ladies and gentlemen, we have often become accustomed to saying that the Greeks forget easily and quickly. But I am sure that this time the Greeks will not just forget, but they will put in the place that they deserve the parties of interlocutory.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u716	Thank you, Mrs. Big Housekeeper.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u717	I shall conclude, Mr President, in a moment.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u718	Not in a minute. You've already taken three minutes extra.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u719	After all, the only certain thing that the President of the Association of Central Banks, Vassilis Leventis, was the first to speak of a quarrel between the media, banks and, of course, deserved a celebrity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u720	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, this is where the debate is adjourned, which was held in accordance with Rule 148 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure on the Committee of Inquiry into the legality of lending to political parties, as well as the owners of media companies from banking institutions in the country, announced in Parliament on 25 January 2017. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-01-S1-commons.u721	With the consent of the House at 3.06 hours the sitting is closed for today, Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 9.30 hours, on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny: topical questions.
