ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the SPECIFIC FACILITY ORGANIZATION A. Debate, at the request of Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras, in accordance with Rule 142a of the Rules of Procedure, on the subject of informing the House about developments in the negotiations on the Cyprus issue. B. Communication from the President of Parliament, Mr Nikolaos Voutsi, pursuant to Rule 51(2) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament on the Cooperation Protocol between the Greek Parliament and the House of Representatives of the Republic of Cyprus on access to the material of the 'Faced of Cyprus' and decision on the matter. We welcome the presence of the Ambassador of Cyprus Mr. Kyriakos Kenevezou and the President of the Association of Cyprus Mr. Georgios Sylouris. In accordance with Rule 142a of the Rules of Procedure of the European Parliament, for Parliament's timely and responsible information and information, the Government may, in addition to the debate on a pre-dated provision of the next article, request at any time to make announcements or statements before it on any serious public matter. The request for a statement or a statement with their subject-matter shall be made to the President of the Parliament and shall be communicated to the Presidents of the Dispute Parliamentary Groups at least twenty-four hours ago. The request of the Prime Minister was sent yesterday and notified to the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups more than twenty-four hours ago, as provided for in Rule 142a. The government's announcement or declaration shall be made in person by the Prime Minister at any legislative or parliamentary sitting before the beginning of the discussion on the agenda and shall not exceed 10 minutes. The Presidents of the Representation Parliamentary Groups may, in person, develop their views on the content of the announcement or declaration made by the Government for a maximum of five (5') minutes for each. In the event of the absence or illness of the President of Parliament's Group in the debate, the Deputy Representative of the designated representative. The Prime Minister's reply to the views of the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups may not exceed five minutes. The denigration of the Presidents of the Vice-Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups may not exceed three minutes and the Prime Minister, who speaks last five minutes. Where the statements and declarations made by the Government before the House are made by the Prime Minister, the Deputy Representatives of the Parliamentary Groups shall not be entitled to speak, without prejudice to the second subparagraph of paragraph 4 of that Article. Please, Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras is in Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, I felt it necessary to call for the plenary to be convened today, using a relevant Rule of the Rules of Procedure to inform the House of the course of the Cyprus issue, following the end of the talks in Switzerland at the dawn of last Friday. It is clear, moreover, as I have repeatedly had the opportunity to point out in my own talks with the Heads of Parliament, that a fair and sustainable solution to the Cyprus problem is a national objective which is extremely important for dialogue, constant information and consultation between the political parties. In this context, the Greek Government, during the talks, strongly supported the standing positions of our country: Firstly, that a fair and sustainable solution to the Cyprus question for the benefit of the entire Cypriot people, Greek Cypriots and Turkish Cypriots can only be achieved on the basis of the decisions of the UN Security Council, but also the status of the Republic of Cyprus as a Member State of the European Union. Secondly, Greece firmly supports the efforts of the Republic of Cyprus in bilateral talks, but is involved only in the negotiation of the Security Capital. Thirdly, in the context of the talks Greece is in constant coordination with the Republic of Cyprus, whose people will also be invited to take any final decision. On the basis of these fixed positions, we have demonstrated with perseverance and determination the fact that a fair and sustainable solution to the Cyprus problem first and foremost means removing the consequences of the invasion and occupation of Cyprus. In other words, it means abolishing the invasive rights and guarantees and withdrawing the occupied troops. At this point let me particularly highlight the crucial, historical importance, I would say, of the Foreign Ministry negotiating team and of the Foreign Minister, Mr Kotzias, personally, for which I should like to thank him publicly today. Because the Greek side has made it quite clear to all our fora and international contacts that no state in the twenty-first century and, in particular, a Member State of the European Union cannot be considered sovereign and independent if there are guaranteed and invasive rights to it. Because the Greek side also made it very clear that none of the European Union - and certainly not Greece - could accept and sign Turkey's right to intervene in the reunited Republic of Cyprus, i.e. towards a country - a Member State of the European Union. It also highlighted the fact that a reunited Cyprus under the guarantee scheme could never be expressed with an independent voice at Community level, with all the consequences that it would have for the European Union itself and the fact that the maintenance of the guarantees and the presence of the occupying troops in the reunited Cyprus would undermine every day any effort for peace and reconciliation on the island. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that to a large extent - perhaps for the first time too - we have been able to persuade the international community to become its own positions, and I think it is equally important that we have also been convinced of our intentions, namely that we have not been in the negotiations all this time and in the talks to refute the time of the negotiations to play the well-known game of responsibilities for failure, but we have fought sincerely in favour of a solution that can benefit the whole of the Cypriot people, ensuring that the mistakes of the past are not repeated and that the security of one community will not be built at the expense of the safety of the other. For about a year now we have tabled a series of proposals, including the conclusion of a tripartite friendship pact and the establishment of a control mechanism for the United Nations. These are proposals that along with the change in the structure of the state, police measures and participation in the European Union would strengthen the sense of security of the Turkish Cypriot community as well. In this context we have repeatedly called for the first phase of the talks in Switzerland last January, but also for the second phase of Turkey to be held in preparatory consultations. Unfortunately, we didn't find a response. And I say this with great regret because, it seems, if we had managed to make substantial advances in this chapter in advance, as this progress has been made in other chapters, the prospect of a solution in Switzerland would have been much better. But what has been made clear, despite some hopeful signs, was that Turkey was not in the end prepared to commit itself to a solution that would allow the reunified Cyprus to be truly independent and dominating, namely a solution without the invasive rights of third countries and, of course, with the even gradual withdrawal of the occupied army. I would not like to go into more detail about the outcome of the negotiations. The Foreign Minister will also take the floor, who informed the parties' representatives in detail yesterday. I believe, however, that the next period is particularly important, and that is why it requires determination and cooling on a number of issues, which are linked to our debate today. Allow me, then, to preside over them briefly. Firstly, cooperation between Greece and the Republic of Cyprus is and will continue to be the crucial axis of Greek foreign policy. This fact is not limited to talks on the Cyprus issue, where coordination was excellent, and I would like to take the opportunity to thank President Anastasiades and the Cyprus negotiating team. The cooperation between Greece and the Republic of Cyprus has a wider dimension. It is generally about - I would say - our international diplomatic cooperation in the European Union, at the summit of the European countries of the South, in our particular strategic tripartite cooperation with the countries of the Middle East and other countries. It also applies, of course, to the support of the Republic of Cyprus in exercising its sovereign rights in its exclusive economic zone. The Republic of Cyprus as sovereign state has the inalienable right to choose the way in which it will exploit its rights, those arising from International Law and the Law of the Sea. In this choice it goes without saying that it will have the support of both Greece and the European Union and the international community as a whole against any threat. Secondly, the end of the talks in Switzerland I would like to stress that it is not the end of our efforts. The fair and sustainable solution of the Cyprus issue in the United Nations' decisions is and will continue to be a central axis of Greek foreign policy, a central challenge for a country that is a pillar of peace, stability and security in the wider region. In this context we are always open to the resumption of talks under the United Nations, to the extent that it will of course be of interest from all sides. And we will continue to move in the same direction: Defending our principles, along with a diplomacy that is not based on fears and obsessions of the past, but on constructive proposals and on the creation of international shades. Of course, we will take advantage of the fact that the abolition of the guarantees and the withdrawal of the occupied troops is now, thanks to the efforts of the Greek side, part of the international community's agenda for the resolution of the Cyprus problem, as is confirmed by the Secretary-General of the United Nations, a man who has a special international appreciation, a political personality, I would say, which can continue and hopefully continue this important effort to find a fair and sustainable solution to the Cyprus problem. Thirdly, the fair and sustainable solution to the Cyprus issue is and must be not the central project for Greece and for Turkish relations, but the central project for the European Union itself and for its future - and I have had the opportunity to point out at the recent summit - not only because it concerns the lifting of the illegal occupation of part of a Member State - a Member State of the European Union, nor because the implementation of the European acquis is a prerequisite for resolving the issue and not just because our concerted efforts have now been accepted by everyone that the European Union has a place on the table for talks, but above all because, by helping to resolve the Cyprus issue, the European Union is opening the way to strengthen its own international and regional role. Fourth point: our message to Turkey, which emerged during the Cyprus talks, must remain stable, especially at these difficult times. We are determined to defend our principles and rights against any threat and illegal claim. At the same time, we are also committed to calling on the issues that divide us and building a relationship based on respect for international law, but also on mutual respect. It remains, of course, to see whether Turkey will also recognise the importance of a fair and sustainable solution to Cyprus for itself, for our relations, for the Euro-Turkish relations and its European prospects, but also for the importance of security and stability in the wider region. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to close after this framework of information, without hopeing to abuse much the time provided for in the Rules of Procedure, to welcome the decision of the Greek and Cypriot Parliament of January 2016 on the joint access to all documentaries, which came to the knowledge and possession of the Greek Parliament from 1986 to 1988 during the examination, then, committee on the 'Face of Cyprus'. A period during which testimonies of those witnesses of all those who had to do with the Cyprus tragedy are a rich and useful material of particular historical importance. Twenty-nine years after the Committee of Inquiry and forty-three years after the invasion, the Greek Parliament will give a full order of these documentary documents to the Cypriot Parliament, so that it can open up, as has been said, an issue mainly concerning the Cypriot people and for which the Cypriot people are entitled to know and to open up, of course, for scientific and historical reasons, this period for consideration. I would like to point out, as you will know, that this decision by the two national delegations has been taken a long time ago. Therefore, it is in no way related to the course of talks to resolve the Cyprus problem. On the contrary, I would say that regardless of the talks and their outcome, it has been an unfulfilled debt for decades of the Greek state to the Cypriot people. It is a minimum tax and a historical justice to all those who fought, resisted and sacrificed the coup against Macariou and the invasion and occupation of part of Cyprus by Attila's businesses. In this spirit, therefore, I would like to believe that the whole democratic political forces will support this historic act of the Greek Parliament, as they did some time ago and the protocols of cooperation between the two national delegations with which this initiative was launched. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u3	Thank you very much. The floor is held by the Chief of Staff and President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, a few days ago in Cran Medana, Switzerland, one more chapter was added, unfortunately, in the history of lost opportunities to resolve the Cyprus issue. Unfortunately, a very serious political and diplomatic effort, which at some stages had developed a positive dynamic, was confronted with Ankara's intransigence. geostrategic pursuits and perceptions of another era, a time that has been overcome for many years by new data and new realities, have once again encroached on Turkey in an essentially rigid attitude. In addition to insisting on dysfunctional approaches, with regard to the so-called internal aspect of the Cyprus issue, Ankara has avoided, with its attitude, the possibility of convergence in the key issues of the external aspect, namely security, guarantees and invasive rights. The geostrategic control over Cyprus seems to remain a constant pursuit of Turkey. It appeared from the commitment to the last moment in the long stay of occupation forces on the island, without a specific final date of full and final withdrawal. It also appeared in the intransigent position to maintain the anachronistic system of guarantees and invasive third-party rights. But we're not in 1960 anymore. We are not in the Cold War, we are not in the days of the singles, we do not live in the years of the junta. A new environment has been established both legally and politically, thanks to a number of UN decisions and, of course, thanks to the accession of Cyprus to the European Union. In this context, reasonable guarantees and invasive rights are obsolete and up-to-date. In a reunited Cyprus, a member of the European Union, where Greek Cypriots and Turkish Cypriots will jointly enjoy the goods of democracy, human rights, economic progress, security and stability, a suffocating surveillance cannot apply. There can be no guarantees, the possibility of intervention by third countries and, of course, the presence of foreign troops. Such a situation is inconsistent and cannot be accepted in a modern European democracy. The 1960 guarantee and alliance conditions, in other words, cannot be the foundation for today and tomorrow. In other words, when there are decisions by the UN Security Council, the conditions themselves, the common security and defence policy, the competence of the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Council of Europe, the Court of Human Rights. And all this, together with the Constitution of a reunited Cyprus, provides an adequate and stable basis for the safety of both communities on the island. But Ankara, unfortunately, has not attempted to read the juncture. He did not want to see the common future, the common European future of Greek Cypriots and Turkish Cypriots clearly. He was caught in the past. It therefore has the main responsibility of failing this round of negotiation. Neither constructive European intervention nor the presence of the European Union has made Ankara change its attitude, nor has the Secretary-General of the United Nations himself, Mr Guterres, who attended the final stage of the consultations and has demonstrated - we must stress this - admirably insistence and knowledge of the issue, been able to prevent the upcoming deadlock. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell of the President of the New Democracy is ringing.]] I'm gonna need some more time, Mr. President. In this barren landscape, the brave and positive attitude of the President of the Republic of Cyprus, Mr Anastasiades, has unfortunately remained unresponsive on the other side of the table. Until the last minute, President Anastasiades has made an effort to remove the deadlock, even in writing, complete and coherent proposal for all aspects of the issue, a proposal concerning both territorial, property, issues of governance, the distribution of powers, security, guarantees, occupation troops, the multinational power, the principle of equal treatment. It is a proposal - and we must say this - bold and essential, but a proposal that has encountered intransigence and persistence in obsolete positions. It is positive that the Greek side, acting within the framework of the guarantee force, did not deviate from the fixed national line that Nicosia has the first reason. Cyprus decides, Greece supports and supports the inseparable relations between Greece and Nicosia are a fundamental prerequisite and, ultimately, an element of the power of Hellenism. The international community, regardless of whether this will eventually be recognised publicly for reasons that we all understand, knows who and what was to blame. It is precisely because the international community, in particular the United Nations and the European Union, is well aware of this, and the international community is well aware of this, and the European Union must, from now on, ensure two crucial issues: Firstly, that the attempt to resolve the Cyprus issue will not end here and, secondly, that any attempt to challenge the sovereign rights of the Republic of Cyprus will be avoided. It has to be realised that Cran Mednah has entered a perfection rather than a perfection. Some statements to seek a solution outside the UN framework, for plan B, for plan C, as well as for what the Turkish side implied, cannot be accepted, are outside the framework of discussion and negotiation. After a reasonable period of reflection, the effort must be restarted, taking into account political data within and outside Cyprus. Athens and Nicosia agree and we are committed to this, that the current state of illegal occupation and substantial division is unacceptable. Indeed, it is a good thing that most people in the world are also aware of the law of basic Greek and Cypriot positions. In the New Democracy today, as a serious Civic Opposition and tomorrow as a responsible government, we will continue to work for a fair solution, for a sustainable solution, for a functional solution. A solution is always in line with international law and the decisions of the UN Security Council. Solution that will implement the European acquis, which is ultimately the best guarantee for a stable, peaceful future for Greek Cypriots and Turkish Cypriots in a reunited European Cyprus, but a Cyprus, without occupation troops, without foreign guarantees, without invasive rights. This was also the position of Greece in the governments of New Democracy. As I have already said, the international community must, with appropriate interventions and clear signals, prevent political actions to challenge all legitimate sovereign rights of the Republic of Cyprus. Cyprus, like any independent and sovereign state, has the right to take advantage of its wealth-producing sources, wherever they are: in the ground, in territorial waters, in the continental shelf and, of course, in the Exclusive Economic Zone, which has been demarcated in accordance with international law and the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea. The procedure for resolving the Cyprus issue is in no way linked to the exercise of the sovereign rights of the Republic of Cyprus over its EEZ. President Anastasiades has rightly made it clear that "the energy plans of the Republic of Cyprus are not related to Turkey's responsibility, which led to the shipwreck of the talks". That is why, as he said, there will be no postponement of the drilling in the Cypriot EEZ. We agree and support him. Our message must be clear: no question is understood, no act of blocking sovereign rights is acceptable. The Eastern Mediterranean can and must be a sea of stability, peace and development, a sea that unites and does not divide states and peoples. Respect for international law and the principle of good neighbourly relations is a self-evident precondition for this. In addition, it confirms the web of the excellent relations between Greece and Cyprus - Israel, as well as Greece - Cyprus - Egypt, which began, formed and enriched in recent years. The relations between these four countries are growing in depth, completeness and stability, to the benefit of regional cooperation and security. Athens, Nicosia, Tel Aviv and Cairo, we have found a harmonious stepping-up based on mutual respect, good neighbourly relations and international law. We are shaping a multi-level cooperation grid, which, carefully, does not turn against any other country, but helps to strengthen peace and stability in our region. Turkey will also have to choose what role it will ultimately have in this crucial, but at the same time very promising, region of the world. Will it be a factor of stability and security in the Eastern Mediterranean? Will it be a neighbor predictable and reliable? Will he be a stable or uncertain ally? This, of course, is not only about the Eastern Mediterranean but also about the Aegean. We have said this many times, and I repeat it today by the Step of the national delegation. We want substantial friendships with Turkey, solid relationships, based on the only firm basis for regulating transnational and international relations: international law. In this context, it is clear that the complete normalisation of Greek Turkish relations is also going through the resolution of the Cyprus problem and from the end of the forty-three-year-old illegal occupation of the northern part of the island. And the substantial cessation of this unacceptable situation will, in fact, give a positive impetus not only to Greek-Turkish relations, but also to Turkey's relations with Europe, which, for many reasons, are currently going through a particularly difficult phase. Our position is clear: Turkey must not be alienated from Europe. We believe that Turkey's European prospect must be kept alive, move on the basis of adapting to European prerequisites and to the acquis communautaire, the front of which is respect for democracy, freedom, pluralism, human rights and, of course, good neighbourly relations. "The path of democracy is upside down and often disgraceful, but it is the only road that eventually leads to the European family." This is what I stressed, among other things, to the Turkish Prime Minister, Mr Yildirim, at our recent meeting. And his visit to Greece had some positive contribution to the atmosphere of our bilateral relations. Only the atmosphere is not enough. There must be a reflection and correlation with the substance and content of the policy applied. There too, there is serious mismatch between words and deeds, statements on the one hand and events on the other. In the Aegean, review policy, violations and challenges of the neighbour continue. This situation increases the potential risks. And the combination of this practice, with provocative statements that call into question the territorial integrity of Greece and that ultimately undermine the validity of the Treaty of Lausanne, create an extremely unpleasant situation. It is incomprehensible that it is enough to question sovereignty even on inhabited Greek islands. Turkey must review this attitude. Our peoples cannot and must not go through tensions and deadlocks. We are doomed by geography and our history to live together. To our people it deserves a better present and an even better future. And positive bilateral cooperation in the economy, in tourism, can strengthen even more and can bring even more benefits in a context of calm, mutual respect and consolidation of security. And here I want to send a message to everyone. In Greece and Cyprus we are placed in a solid national line of responsibility for the Turkish violations of international law and the intransigence of Ankara in Cyprus and the Aegean. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The New Democracy has made a first contribution to the formation of this national line. We believe - we have said this many times, I repeat today - that the national issues, as well as the challenges that the country faces foreign policy and defence, should not be the subject of party exploitation and confrontation. And on all the major national issues we have undertaken and will continue to take initiatives to support national interests. We did so and we continue to do so in the refugee - immigration with continuous briefings of partners and allies, stressing the size and weight of the challenge that our country has faced as an external border of the European Union. We have done so and will continue to do so against Turkish policy of tension in the Aegean Sea with interventions to partners, allies and the institutions of the European Union and NATO. The same policy of decisive interventions and initiatives has been implemented in the case of the insult of Agia Sophia as a global cultural monument. And I asked immediately by letter to UNESCO to intervene so that this unacceptable action would not be repeated. In this spirit, too, we are moving towards the issue of the name of our other neighbour. We have made it clear to both the international community and the government of Skopje that, while we are positively assessing the change of atmosphere and messages, we are not going to move from the position of Bucharest and the unanimous decision of the alliance, which has also been adopted by the European Union. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And this position is summarised in four words: first solution, then integration. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to close with this remark: invoking national unity cannot be a flag of opportunity and it certainly cannot be a forced refuge in the face of the difficult and occasional choice in the face of the deadlocks. For us, New Democracy, national unity is a firm and time-consuming belief. It is a belief that we are doing today, when we speak and work for a solid line of responsibility. However, I must say that this line of responsibility must be served by everyone, and everyone must stand up to the circumstances, with a sense of national duty. Deep-sensitive behaviours, prosperous self-promotion and small-scale exploitation of national sensitivities must be avoided, not put on the other side for unacceptable arguments or even worse not to be an alibi for provoking actions. And Mr Tsipras, Prime Minister, this is your duty to ensure that. Otherwise, you are co-responsible for these behaviours and the consequences they may have. National issues cannot enter the balance of intra-government balances in a way that affects the credibility of the country. The next period will be particularly complex and difficult and the challenges of serious and pressing, and national issues are too serious to be addressed by some with lightness. The burden, ladies and gentlemen, of Greek history is great and we must all do everything we can to prove that we can respond in a worthy way to the criticality of moments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u5	Thank you. Please, the President of the PASOK Democratic Group has the floor - DIMAR Mr. Fotini (Phot) Genomes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, I will choose to stay on the subject. I think it is very important. Forty-three years is too many. The shipwreck with the responsibility of Turkey of the talks in Kra Medana is another link in the chain of unsuccessful efforts to resolve the Cyprus problem. It's a station, not the end of the route. Because the end of the route and the solution with the occupation status and the division wall simply cannot exist. With cooling, prudence, national consultation of the Republic of Cyprus and Greece in coordination, we must create a new opportunity to resolve the Cyprus problem, with an even more active and essential role for the European Union. And I would like to ask a question to the government here. How is it possible, when we were at the forefront of the new round of negotiations, that there should not be a single reference to the decisions of the European Council in Cyprus? What exactly happened? Don't you think, Prime Minister, that you ought to inform the National Representation about such a critical omission if it's a failure and not an option? We are waiting for explanations why the European paper has not been played hard. It is perhaps the first time this has happened at such a critical juncture. There is no doubt that huge and sincere efforts have been made in recent years both from the Republic of Cyprus and from Greece and with significant gestures of goodwill in order to reunited the island, to end the unacceptable occupation and to make a fair, sustainable and operational solution acceptable to the Cypriot people on the basis of the UN Security Council decisions and resolutions and the European acquis. The responsibilities of Turkey and the last failure are given. Once again, she has horrified with her rigid positions the attempt to resolve that this time came so close to a positive result. Turkey's intransigent positions have blocked and continue to block every attempt to resolve the Cyprus problem. Everyone now agrees - what is it, even with shades and divergences in formalities? - that the guarantee scheme and withdrawal of the occupying forces must be exceeded. Only Turkey refuses to adapt. The responsibilities are heavy. In any case, however, this is not the time to limit ourselves to the blame game. That's not good enough. This suits nationalists of all color and side. Obviously, we're not to capture failure. The next day's management needs attention and seriousness, and I want to focus on three points. First point: Let us also see the Secretary-General's report to the Security Council in order to properly assess the situation and assess how we will move from now on. I would like to draw your attention to the sharp phrase 'Happy success for the people of Cyprus' by the UN Secretary-General, Mr Gutiéres. The second point I would like to make concerns the aggressive Cavusoglu declaration that the solution now needs to be found outside the good agencies and the UN framework. The solution for us must be strictly sought within the framework of the UN, which shows that Turkey now wants to get away. The Cyprus issue, above all, is an international issue of invasion and occupation. The UN and the Security Council have a dominant role and a reason, as do the European Union, a Member State of which the Republic of Cyprus is, and let us not forget, of course, when this has happened and by which government. I'll see you in second language. The third point I wish to make is that, in consultation with the international player, we must ensure an environment of safety and tranquility in the wider region. In a few days' time, the Republic of Cyprus will legally exercise its rights under International Law and the Treaties, in cooperation with large companies for hydrocarbons. Ladies and gentlemen, we in the Democratic Partnership are fully aware of the difficulties and complexity surrounding the Cyprus issue and face it, like all foreign policy issues, with a high sense of patriotic responsibility. We are opposed to the concept of compromise in the logic of lost opportunities that others are always to blame, and that suits us, because we know very well that with a specific strategy, with appropriate alliances you can create opportunities and new positive data for homeland. [[Applause from the Wing of Democratic Association, PASOK - DIMAR]] There are no parties to this issue. We want and we support for Cyprus the national line that exists and has been formed for years, the national line based on the truth, the justice, the international law and the interest of the Cypriot people. In the area of guarantees and security, we are directly involved, but in close cooperation with Nicosia and with full respect for its interests. Our main guideline for the Cyprus issue was and remains that Nicosia decides and Athens supports. We support the Cyprus issue, and I repeat, a fair and sustainable solution, on the basis of the bizonal and bi-communal federation, in accordance with the principles of the UN and the acquis communautaire of the European Union, a solution which will lead to the reunification of Cyprus as a federation, without occupation troops and guarantees systems, a solution in which a modern security system with direct participation by the UN and the European Union will fully guarantee the security, the rights of the two communities and all citizens of the island. For example, I would like to bring a proposal here as a direct first step. Encouraging the European Union in the negotiations to declare to the highest possible level that the Republic of Cyprus is part of the European Union. So there is no need for any other security guarantee and certainly not for Turkish troops to guarantee the security of the Turkish Cypriots. We are fighting together with the Republic of Cyprus, a country - member of the European Union, the Eurozone and the UN, which remains divided and in the presence of occupying forces. This regime is unacceptable both for Europe and the UN and for the entire world. The last wall of Europe must finally fall. Forty-three years after the invasion and occupation, we certainly don't forget. We keep trying. We insist, fight and claim the solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mrs. Gennamas. The President of the Group of the European People's Party - Golden Dawn, Mr Michaliokos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister said earlier that he had private talks with the Heads of the political parties on the issue of Cyprus. But I do, Prime Minister! The same applies to you, Mr Kotzia. You have excluded from informing a national issue the third political force of the country according to the elections. And I'll remind you of an old story. Until April 21, 1967, there was the council of the crown. And then there was a debate on the Cyprus issue, but a party, the ESA, had been excluded. They did not call for a representative of the ESA in these matters. What are you doing differently than what the regime did at that time? You do the same. And I ask: do people who vote Golden Dawn not serve in the Army? Don't they pay taxes? Where do you draw this doubtful legality from excluding the country's third political power? From your ideological position, from a Marxist idealism from which you are undoubtedly occupied or from the fact that you will not find willing interlocutors in the movement of nationalists? The people of Cyprus will take the decision, said the Prime Minister. He's got her, Mr. Tsipras. He took her with the Annan plan, which you did not respect, and you proceeded to talks with the Turks against the Annan plan. And it is no coincidence that both the SYRIZA and the New Democracy Ward, which currently has its leadership, were in favour of the Annan plan. You spoke of two communities and reminded me of the words of the relentless Tasos Papadopoulos, who with tears in the eyes had said in his lecture to the Cypriot Greek people: "I received a state, I will not surrender a community,". You, as a government, went with Mr Anastasiades as a representative of a community and not a state and proceeded with things that are nationally unacceptable. Well, you've finally left, but you've gone badly! You have gone, you have discussed, and you are talking about progress in other chapters, about rotating Cyprus Presidency - Mr Anastasiades accepted it, you have not expressed any clear opposition - and you have spoken of the right to veto the Turkish Cypriots. Here is the question: How is it possible in a state where Turkish Cypriots account for 18%, that they have the right to have a president and a veto? Mr Anastasiades has had all this for discussion and it is fortunate that these cooperations have ended. Previously, the Prime Minister, who is not in the Chamber at this time, said that Cyprus is a sovereign state and has the right to an EEZ, an Exclusive Economic Zone according to International Maritime Law and will have the support of Greece. Well said, Greek Prime Minister for Cyprus. Why doesn't he tell about Greece? Why doesn't Greece declare EOZ? Why doesn't Greece take advantage of the rich hydrocarbon deposits? The Golden Dawn had submitted a draft law to the Greek Parliament, when the New Democracy and the PASOK were government, on October 4, 2012, for a declaration of EEZ in Greece. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Secretary-General of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Michalliakos presents for the minutes the above draft law, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Very bravely your decision to defend the EEZ of Cyprus, but you cannot do EEZ in Greece. The Chief of Staff Response, Mr. Mitsotakis, spoke of a positive perspective, which was being opened. Where did he see the positive perspective? In the supreme retreat of Anastasiades from what he decided by a overwhelming majority, by voting against the Annan plan, the Greek Cypriot people? In the Annan plan, the Turkish Cypriot minority was provided for the right to veto any political decision and to have Greek Cypriot president and Turkish Cypriot vice president and refused this. So how was progress? Mr Mitsotakis also said something very important, which I hope the Turks do not take seriously. He said the conditions of ‘60 can't have effect. But under the conditions of the ‘60s there is an independent Cypriot state. If there were no conditions in the 1960s, there would be no Cypriot state. To say things with their name, it all started after World War II and the establishment of the United Nations, in which the self-determination of the peoples was established, which was the case for Africa, for Asia, everywhere, except for the Greeks of Cyprus. We were violated by our good allies, whom we were slave to every project of NATO and who were subjected to their will not to self-determination by the Cypriot people. Then, at the initiative of a heroic man, who in this House was exposed a worthy home, General George Grevas Digenis, began a wonderful struggle, the struggle of the EEC and the English allies hung us Greeks. And then the streets of Athens, not just on the right, but on the left, had been filled, and we had died in these demonstrations, which we have all forgotten. Mr Mitsotakis was also very clear in favour of the Anastasiades proposals. And he also said that the proposals Anastasiades were a positive step. For us it's a naughty retreat. On this point, I will read to you the positions of ELAM, the National People's Front, which holds positions in the Cypriot Parliament, where it proposes that the Cyprus issue should be a new strategy in a new context, on the basis of the single state, which is the only sustainable solution, because, as we know, the bizonal bi-communal federation was not implemented anywhere and where it was implemented, it collapsed or created serious problems. Single state. This voted 76% of the Greeks of Cyprus, voting against the Annan plan and, of course, with the Turkish Cypriots having their full rights as a minority, civil, political, religious. But nothing more than that. It is an opportunity to stop talks with the Turks, with Turkey's responsibility, and to embody the bi-zonal bi-communal federation which divides Cyprus into two areas and is essentially partitioning and legitimising Attila. As for Attila's troops - the Prime Minister said earlier - we accepted the gradual withdrawal. This is contrary to the decisions of the United Nations, which spoke of a complete withdrawal of the Turkish troops, as well as of the settlers. You accepted part of the colonists' presence, which is a war crime. So, gradual withdrawal of the troops. The proposal of ELAM is to immediately close the barricades, stop the legitimisation of the illegal pseudo-crackers in northern Cyprus and in practice to do so the doctrine of the single defence area of Greece and Cyprus. Mr Mitsotakis said earlier that we have made some defensive agreement with Israel and Turkey. So, now that Turkey is threatening us, if the Turks do some hot incident in Cyprus, as Gildirim himself understood in his statement, will the Egyptian and Israeli forces intervene? Stop the fairy tales at last. There's not that thing. And because the purpose of this meeting, which was not followed, beyond the time that has been violated by me in short, we said that it is about asking the Prime Minister specific questions, and I did not hear either from Mr Mitsotakis or from Mrs Gennamas. We therefore have a question first: at the moment, we have the Turkish threats to Cyprus' attempt to exploit the EEZ and the hydrocarbons deposits. Will there be any practical Greek guarantees that if Cyprus, Greece, is threatened, will it be present? I didn't hear that. Will Greece also declare EEZ like Cyprus, whose law the Prime Minister invoked, recognizing the law of Cyprus, but not of Greece? Finally, let us make it clear, if there are talks, that there will be new bases, without rotating presidencies, without veto to the Turkish Cypriots, with the immediate implementation of the 1974 UN Resolutions, that they are an army of occupation, that all settlers should leave and leave. As for the geography, for us Greek patriots and nationalists, Morfu is not enough. The flag of the unified independent Cypriot state, in Kyrenia and in Famagusta, must be waved. And it is not possible, with our signature, to dismiss this right. For thousands of years Cyprus was a Greek island, since Kimon went with the triumphs and liberated it. Today, the strong Greece with the destroyers and the wells and the submarines cannot do it. And that's sad. Cyprus is Greek. That's the phrase I'm finishing.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u9	I very much urge that the Members of the Communist Party of Greece enter the Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u10	That's unnecessary. Impressions are created.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u11	For what? I don't understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u12	When we talk, get out. Where is that foreseen?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u13	He's the next speaker, Mr. Michalolico. I'm calling Mr. Koutsuba. What exactly do you say? Remind me, Lord! Please, Mr. Kutsuba, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, despite the efforts of the entire previous period of creation of an artificial climate of euphoria, cultivation, expectations that have, of course, been disproved on several occasions, developments surrounding the Cyprus problem are very worrying and show that it is going through a new stage of exacerbation. Of course, the attitude and interventions of Britain, the United States of America, NATO against the independence of Cyprus, in the direction of division, have always been negative in relation to the major competitions in the region. The current phase is related to the new Turkish challenges to the Cyprus EEZ, but also to the Aegean Sea with the imperialist warfare in our region and, more generally, to the major differences between the various imperialist centres around the gas and oil pipelines, the roads to goods traffic, and the associated ones to make use of Cyprus' strategic geographical position. The attempt to present itself as the main problem, to ensure the peace and security of the two communities on an island is made in order to cover in its essence the reality of imperialist antagonisms and the promotion of the great interests, to delete the undeniable fact that the Cyprus issue is an international problem of invasion and occupation of the northern part of Cyprus by Turkey and that this bears the seal of NATO's intervention, as well as of the overall imperialist plans in the region. You know that the JRC fought in the past against the bishop plan Annan that was neither fair nor viable and involved the peoples of Cyprus, Greece and Turkey in new adventures. However, what is the solution, which has been cooked in the main document of the inter-Community talks in recent years, the joint communication Anastasiades-Eroglou of 11 February 2014, which was also confirmed by Mr Akinji, the progress made in the resolution of the Cyprus issue, provides for the creation of two States' constituents. Despite efforts to exorcise its supporters, this solution is both dichotomy and dangerous. In practice, as with the Annan plan, partitioning is going through the so-called bi-communal, bi-zonal federation, which was initially a painful compromise, as was described at the time by both Cypriot and Greek parties, then treated as a position of principle, gradually plunging - and in its name - the promotion of a confederate solution of two states rather than an independent and viable federal state. Those who each time invoke the negative correlation of powers - like the Greek Government, other governments, but also representatives of international organisations such as NATO, the European Union or UN representatives - are all themselves, who form and strengthen on a daily basis this negative relationship in many ways, especially with their choices. So they're getting him worse and worse this relationship for the people. When they all invoke the correlation, they actually call on the peoples - Greek, Turkish, Cypriot and other peoples - to let them, of course, loose hands, make their lion agreements, in most cases, temporary imperialist agreements at the expense of the people. And that, regardless of what state or state forces are gaining more benefit from the agreements and what happens to the relative defeat. Above all, peoples are told to bend their heads, passive receivers of the anti-grass choices, to be used in the great game of competition. The supporters of this new project, in order to manipulate the Cypriot people, use various false dilemmas and among them the polluter question, 'dividing or federation'. In fact, as it is being promoted, this tends to be the same thing. That is why, when they find themselves with them, the resisting peoples are starting to smack about the utopia of our positions, and re-engaging their polluting dilemmas. In this case, in the case of the proposal being promoted, they hide that, in practice, this is not a federation, as it is said, but a carabinat, at best, a confederation of two states, which will have their own territorial integrity, their own borders and sovereignty, their own constitution, parliament and government, their own internal and foreign policy. In this way the principles, which had to be unnegotiable for a domination, a citizenship, an international personality, are being cancelled, while the slogans that speak about the association of the island are without substance. All the last period of talks, including those in Mon Pelleran at the beginning of the year, but now, the day before Kra Munnas in Switzerland, it turned out that the search for compromises that ultimately promote the divisive solution is being sought. This serves with the relevant proposals, both concerning the territorial and the asset problem, governance, while creating conditions for an agreement that maintains the unacceptable status of guarantees and the provocative presence of Turkish occupation forces in various different forms. We fear that this is the aim of the various proposals that work in the United States of America, Britain and the United Nations, with the co-responsibility of the Cypriot and Greek Governments, such as the proposals for an international police-military force involving Turkish forces, the search for a mechanism to monitor a solution before it is even found, with a guarantee force characteristic. In practice, systematic interventions by the United States, Britain, France and the European Union as a whole to speed up the talks and sign the agreement, aim to create a fait accompli, in order to pave the way for the exploitation of the island's energy deposits for the benefit of the interests of parts of the urban classes, the States involved and the various Euro-Atlantic designs. At the same time, the aim is to make use of the geostrategic position of Cyprus, in which NATO, British and Russian bases have been established, in competition with Russia, in the conditions of deepening the wider world. The Cyprus problem is governed - let us say this - by a peculiarity: it is one of the two international problems - together with the Palestinians - which, since the 20th century, have been covered by a general UN decision, which - at least typically - gave an answer, a solution to the issue - especially the Cyprus issue - as a problem of invasion - occupation. Of course, we do not forget that at that time in the UN the correlation of power was relatively better because of the intervention in the decisions of the Soviet Union, other socialist countries and the pressure exerted by some other states, which at that time were called 'unblocked', which, of course, were also committed for good. It turns out so what the Communist Party of Greece says, that capitalist states even when at some point or moment they make a good decision, it remains in the words, it is temporary and it can be reversed when - much more - the people are reassuring. Ladies and gentlemen, developments are not just alarming, but they are becoming very dangerous. Competition is exacerbated and about which energy designs will prevail for the exploitation and transport of Cypriot gas and other sources in the south-eastern Mediterranean to Europe. On the substance, the diplomatic solution of the Cyprus issue is an international alarming development, because, apart from not guaranteeing a viable solution for the people of Cyprus, it can in practice be linked to a new increase in opposition to the Eastern Mediterranean with very negative consequences for the people in the region. The responsibilities of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, as well as of the New Democracy and the other parties which propaganda the Euro-Atlantic'strong' one-way for our country, are enormous. On the one hand, you praise the participation of Greece and Turkey in NATO as a factor of peace and security, and when the Turkish challenges go beyond every limit, both the air and the territorial waters of the country become "sortori", then take out the sleeve as a new plank of salvation the so-called "three-strong alliance" of our country with Israel, Cyprus, Egypt. You cultivate in both cases fruits hopes that either by bragging Turkey, or by calling the "spaceguard", the United States, in the Eastern Mediterranean, we will be able to exploit energy deposits in Greece and Cyprus for the infamous development and exit from the crisis. At the same time, you lie and, consciously, because you know very well that these deposits and profits from them will only be placed in the pockets of the large energy volumes, of the monopolies of this industry. These deposits in the conditions of monopolistic capitalism, i.e. imperialism, draw on them, such as honey flies, strong competition, imperialist wars. This is why our position, on which the position of the Communist Party of Greece is based, is in line with the positions you are serving, with the ground that you are creating for foreign planning to pass on to the real interests and the Cypriot people - the Greek Cypriots, the Turkish Cypriots - and the Greek people, who are in this vulture of foreigners - to their own interests and to the Turkish people, who bleed under an authoritarian regime and sheds his blood for the interests of the Turkish pluralism. We are fighting for the single interests of all the working people of Cyprus and not the energy monopolies of the Americans, NATO, your other allies. We stress the need to coordinate the fight against the working class and the populaces of Cyprus, Turkey, Greece to eliminate the consequences of the Occupation in the prospect of liberation as a whole from the bonds of the holding. We are in favour of the immediate withdrawal of occupying forces and all other foreign military forces from Cyprus. More generally, we support the elimination of the consequences of Turkish occupation, the cessation of settlement and the treatment of this problem, taking into account social, humanitarian criteria, the right to return refugees to their homes. We support the closure of NATO-British bases and the abolition of the regime enjoyed for so many years, continuing the struggle to close both the Souda base and the other American bases in Greece. Ladies and gentlemen, the JRC considers that the struggle of the working class and the people's classes should be directed to the objective of a Cyprus in which a true master will be its people, Greek Cypriots and Turkish Cypriots, Armenians, Latinians and Maronites, a Cyprus united, independent, with one and only sovereignty, a citizenship and international personality, without foreign bases and troops, without foreign guarantors and protectors. For the Cyprus JRC means a single state formation, a state and not two states, the right to freedom of movement, establishment and residence of people's families in all areas of the island, without conditions and commitments, ensuring labour, insurance, social rights without discrimination, respecting the right to speak their language, to form their children, with respect for religious choices and cultural traditions. On this basis, the position of the JRC for Cyprus unlikes nationalism and the ghettoism caused by the so-called 'dizonality' and the two'recommendative states', and expresses the need for the single organisation, the joint struggle of the working class of the people's populations of Cyprus, Greek Cypriots and Turkish Cypriots, against anti-popular policies, the bourgeoisie exploiter, against the European Union, NATO. It is clear that the Communist Party of Greece is nothing but ignoring the association of powers or who are currently sitting on the same table for the solution - supposedly - of Cyprus. However, the JRC has no right to become a homogeneous party with all those who currently form an even more negative relationship against peoples. In addition to proclaiming positions of principle, the JRC is fighting in the most difficult conditions, so that people, through their intervention, may impose cracks, changes in the relationships. This, of course, is not utopia, nor a summer night dream. It's just the social development law itself. We consider an important step in the struggle to change correlation the solidarity and common international attitude of the peoples against anti-Fraud, anti-Slavish governments and their international or regional imperialist associations and allies. The JRC's proposal responds to the long-standing development of the Cyprus issue. It is realistic and consistently responds to today's urgent problems. It opens, at the same time, a road that gives perspective to the struggle of the Cypriot people, all the peoples of our wider region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u15	Thank you. Mr Panagiotis Kammenos, President of the Group of Independent Greeks, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the talks in Kra Ménas have been successful, although they have not reached the agreement which the Greek side - both Greek and Greek Cypriot - sought with perseverance and endurance. I say that they have been successful, because for the first time our country has raised the issue of abolishing the guarantees at the negotiating table. So far there have been rhetorical positions, but they have not been negotiated. The Greek position has been very clear since the beginning. There was coordination with the Cypriot Government and, in fact, the Greek delegation, under the Minister of Foreign Affairs, deserves congratulations, because for the first time the national position was formulated perfectly. With specific written and oral proposals it forced the Turkish side to reveal its true intentions, namely that it does not want a solution to the Cyprus question, that it wants Cyprus enslavement, with the stay of the occupying forces on the island. On the part of the Independent Greeks, I would like to congratulate the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the entire negotiating group on this development. It is obvious that future talks, whenever they take place, should provide a solution to the departure of the last Turkish from the island. Independent and sovereign state in the presence of occupying forces there is nowhere in the world and Cyprus will not be the exception, a member country of the European Union. Turkey must understand that if it wants to have its proper place in the region, it will have to change radically. The challenge and threats do not contribute either to the climate of good relations that we seek or to the stability of the region. The only way for Turkey, in order to find its way to the world of culture, peace and development, is to restore its relations with our country by stopping the rhetoric and military challenges and the withdrawal of the occupation forces from Cyprus, in which it must say a great sorry for the tragedy that led both Greek Cypriots and Turkish Cypriots. Mr Erdogan has to take an example from other leaders, to emerge to its height and to be able to co-operate with the peace initiatives of the wider region. It's not too late to do it. Greece, with responsibility, has built strategic alliances in the wider region with countries such as Israel, Jordan, Egypt, the United Arab Emirates to the south and north with the Balkan countries, creating an axis of stability. Greece is now the centre that can bring together conflicting forces. It is now time in the wider region of the South-East Mediterranean, with the existence of strong gas and oil deposits, to turn a conflict area into a peace area. In this effort Turkey should understand that it is in its interest to abandon its old policy of 'Eritme Programi'. For our part, it is clear that the struggles of Cypriot Hellenism, the struggles of Evagoras Pallikaridis, Isaac, Solomos, the fighters of the National Guard, Theophilus Georgiadis, are struggles that cannot be betrayed by withdrawal of "Anann" solutions. Lovers over the "Anann Plans" have few left in Greece. I am sorry to say this, but some of those who write against the Minister of Foreign Affairs, against the Greek Government, were the ones who in this case reproduced messages coming from the mobile phones of the pseudo-Turkish Cypriot state. It is clear that the upgrading of the geopolitical position of Cyprus, cooperation with countries of the European Union and the United States, alliances with countries in the region can also lead to the creation of the large energy centre and the energy transmission hub. I am referring to the pipeline that will start from Cyprus, it will extend to the south of Cyprus and it will reach Igoumenitsa, which will be able to provide new energy supplies throughout the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, it is now time for all those Cyprus files which either exist or do not exist. It is clear that the Prime Minister's mandate to give all the archives of the Committee of Inquiry of Cyprus, through the President of the Parliament, a very important step, a request from the Greek Cypriots for many years, which we have not satisfied so far. It is particularly important, however, that the work carried out following the mandate of the Prime Minister and the Ministries of National Defence, where all the details are now given, which will prove what happened in 1974. Because - and I am sorry to say it - there have been voices in this House from some who are trying to show up as patriots. They were the ones who supported the coup in Cyprus. The coup in Cyprus, like Juda of Ioannides, bear huge responsibility for the loss of national territory, for the invasion and occupation of Cyprus. From our point of view, therefore, all those elements relating to military information for the coup period, but also for the period of invasion and occupation, will be attributed to what leaders did not carry out national planning and from whom they took orders. At the same time, however, the junta's file must also be opened, to see who worked with the junta, who were those who later appeared as anti-resistance, were junta interlocutors. We are committed - following the instructions we have from the Prime Minister - that both the Cyprus file and the junta file and all the elements that were deeply hidden in the Pentagon underground will be given to the Greek people and will be recorded in Greek history. Some should realize that, of course, Cyprus is not far away. Others, however, cannot sell patriotism when they are the ones who continue to support the junta that handed over Cyprus, Ioannides and all those who, as a prosperous executive of the Armed Forces, allowed the Turkish occupation army to invade and take over Cyprus.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u17	Thank you. [[Applause from the centre of the Union of Centres]] Mr Leventis, President of the Centroon Union, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u18	Good morning, everyone, to the Prime Minister, to the President-in-Office, to the main ministers - a woman does not, fortunately, exist - and ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u19	Your Honor, you're hurting us now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u20	I mean, in the cabinet's office. There's one down there. Okay. George Mavros, as far as you know, held the discussions in the Government of National Unity on the Cyprus issue, immediately after the fall of Judas, and had achieved several condemnatory resolutions on Turkey. At that stage, until the elections in Greece, the Security Council had met several times. George Black has also written a book, which I have, with all the condemnative resolutions of the Security Council against Turkey. Karamanlis won the election and you know how he won it, with a 53% and took two hundred and twenty MPs. To calculate the bonuses, with 53% should have a hundred and fifty nine seats and took two hundred and twenty. With such minds back from Paris! We recognize the value of Constantine Karamanlis' face, he did five things. Mostly, his second eight years were much more serious than the first, but he returned from Paris, cutting for seventy bonus seats. That's to know where the Migration started. He was visited by George Mavros - when he lost the elections, he took 23% of the Center-New Forces Union - and said to him: 'Mr. President, now that you have been elected, I cease to be Vice-President of the Government and Minister of Foreign Affairs and I give you the condemnation resolutions against Turkey and take note of: To preserve these and form a diplomatic chapter, you must not proceed to direct discussions with the Turks. For with the first, without the presence of the UN, without the presence of an international organisation, bilateral discussions with the Turks, these resolutions go to the basket of unusables." These were the words of George Black. The elderly Karamanlis said to him: “God! We will not respect this chapter, etc.''.'. He didn't spend a month and a half and he went and met with the Turks. The same time next time they asked for Tsipras to meet. You met - I do not remember - Mr Tsipras, with the Turkish leadership? Because you know that every time you meet with the Turkish embassy, they keep practically all the new claims that they consider to be claims. That is, if they go crazy at night and want thirty - eight islands instead of eight, they will think that before the Greek Prime Minister they asked for thirty - eight islands. This is what Turks do, they make use of bilateral contacts to increase, to add to the agenda of claims. That's all. The next time they met a few days ago with Mr. Tsipras said to him: "For Cyprus you expect nothing. You're abusing yourself. Turks will come to blow everything off at the last minute." My witness is the same as they told him. That's the first. Secondly, they told him both about the EOZ and about the oil: "You will make talks, you will bring companies, you will do various things and Turkey will come all to blow them in the air and say caus belli if you move on." With regard to this company, TOTAL, some analysts came out - a Mazis and another whose name I do not remember - and they said that now, due to international circumstances, etc. Turkey will not dare to hit the 'TOTAL' facilities. You don't know what 'Turkey' will say, Mr. Tsipras. You are younger than me and you do not know what "Turkey". For Turkey, George Papandreou said: "When the door of the madhouse opens, we have to read." Because I think tomorrow morning is the date of the ship coming, be ready for judgment. Turkey will not let Greece and Cyprus win anything - so it is - or we will give them half, half the Aegean, half the money. That is what Turkey is asking for. Make up your mind. This is Turkey. If you think that we will be successful and that Turkey will retreat, then tomorrow will come and you will see the follow-up. I also hear some other theories that Turkey is broken, that it is now dealing with Germany. Turkey is the only country to fly a Russian plane. He fired a Russian plane without any quarrel. As to what situation the Armed Forces and the defensive plans Greece has, it would be more useful instead of discussing, chatting in this Chamber and saying each other's short and the other's long, because this is how the debate has evolved, to discuss in a possible threat and a hot event what we are doing, where we are. Because if you believe that the phone with the American Vice-President is a guarantee for the country, you are mistaken! Yesterday, the TVs put forward a phone call that Mr. Tsipras made to the American Vice-President. Will the American Vice-President come here to fight on Greece's side? Do we believe it in this Chamber? So there are certain Turkish threats, and the leaders of the parties should be in one room and talking about the country's ability, namely what the country will do if it is faced with a threat. There can be no threat tomorrow morning, 03.00 hours at night, and here in this Chamber we can discuss. What are we talking about right now? Turkey - says - is responsible for the shipwreck of negotiations. Why, were there any chance of the negotiations going on? Was that a case? Did the Prime Minister really believe it? I can't believe it because I told him. But did you think that Turkey could retreat? Turkey has the well-known role of the mouse cat. The only way to make Turkey a reasonable country is for it to approach the European Union. But from what you can see, she does everything she can to get away from the possessions. He's doing everything he can toward the madness. So we have a problem with that. We must consider the possibility for the Armed Forces to defend themselves. We need to see more seriously how we react in the event of a hot event, not again Mr Tsipras has done what Mr Simatis has done with Imia. In other words, in the morning, he threatened here from the House and said "Whoever dared..." and at night would put flags down. We must not have this kind of situation again, because I count that we are fighting that way. I can see that the new Republic and SYRIZA are already at risk of having a dispute. SYRIZA is affected by judgments of justice and cannot rule, and the New Democracy...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u21	Mr President, please stay on matters or even on national issues...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u22	All right, Mr. President. But what can we stay in matters? I watched all the political leaders today. If there is a hot episode tomorrow, Mr President, does this country have the answer? Mr. Kammenos and the President of the Republic go out and threaten? That's what's happening.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u23	You've put it three times...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u24	If the Turks say anything wrong, the President of the Republic comes out and says "We do not grant anything". What happened? Is he enforcing this country?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u25	Well, thank you very much on this subject. Do not extend to that, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u26	But I want to say something about justice. You have put down justice, and the Neo-Democrats are defenders, and the government is condemned. Any parties that play with the institutions - and the supreme institution in the state are justice - harm democracy. I don't know, the media have been turning around for several days and discussing this issue alone. This is a disgrace, because the ordinary citizen hears it and tells you, "We do not respect court decisions, since they are vulnerable and vulnerable." It starts such a culture and you understand that this is the rule of law. As far as the question of committees of inquiry is concerned, why do you not accept an examination on your day too? I mean, you did some exams last time. Why did you stop in 2014? It's brave to have put yourself under consideration.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u27	Mr President, this is not a debate on the agenda today.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u28	Mr President, let me speak. You left Mr. Koutsuba 20 minutes to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u29	Only on the Cyprus side have they spoken. Everyone on the Cyprus side spoke.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u30	But you won't censor me what I'm going to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u31	It's not a matter of censorship. It's a special procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u32	Then forty years I entered this Chamber. That is not behaviour, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u33	What are you talking about? It's a special conversation today.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u34	Please. What do you mean, it's a special conversation?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u35	It's a special matter. The Rules of Procedure state what they will say.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u36	They've put justice down, and they're hitting it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u37	Good. Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u38	And burdening justice, we are burdening the rule of law. We don't respect it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u39	Please. Hurry up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u40	And if in this Chamber you think that without justice Greece can walk, you are mistaken. On the issue of the name of Skopje - and this has also been mentioned in a number of speeches - I want to say a few words. The Chamber and the parties have decided what will happen with the name of Skopje? I am saying this because he told me that all the previous prime ministers - putting in you, Mr Tsipras - have accepted a geographical definition with the word 'Macedonia'. He told me to be an ambassador. I don't have to say who. I imagine you can see who he is. He told me that all parties' leaders have accepted a name composite to Macedonia. Did you ask the people of Macedonia? So how are you guys doing? You referendumd to see what was going to happen with the economy. What about Macedonia? Did you decide to give the word Macedonia? You yourself? And your party has some Prime Minister - who called into question some relatives from here at the Mitsotakis - who I think had said that we should give the name and in ten years we will have forgotten it. On the day of the Memorial, where I spoke, I was attacked by a group of your relatives, Mr Mitsotakis, that it is a lie, that he did not say so. Disprove it, then, officially.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u41	You don't leave that now?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u42	You don't have to, Mr. Mitsotakis! Isn't it an insult to the people of Macedonia to say that we give the name and in ten years we'll have forgotten?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u43	Mr President, I would like you to address the President, please, not directly.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u44	Okay, but I don't understand, on the Skopje issue, should the Hall not decide, if a negotiation takes place, how far can we get, and what names can we use? So he's free for Mr. Tsipras to go and negotiate whatever he is and come here? You know, Karamanlis, the old man, had returned to Greece after the agreements of Zurich and London, and after having put the Turkish guarantor, he put full-fledged lists of the state paying them and saying "the Cyprus issue has been solved"! And George Papandreou was forced into this Chamber and said the tragedy is now beginning. Not only is it not'removed', but 'the tragedy is now beginning'! Karamanlis posted all the newspapers that the Zurich - London agreements solved the Cyprus issue. I wonder: In national matters we have deleted a line, or will Mr Tsipras speak at all times, he will come here, will everyone else take the word and will this continue? Because that's where I think we're headed towards a situation like this. As there are some distances at the expense of the Central Association, I would like to stress that the Central Association is reinforced by the distances that are being distanced - I inform Parliament and the Greek people through the House - and to every Member who leaves the House, the people will give five Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u45	Thank you. I would urge Mr Stavros Theodorakis, President of the Potamian Parliamentary Group, to take the floor immediately. I would ask those in their first speech to be informed, voluntarily, that is, the time of secondary debate, so that we take into account the economy of the debate. For example, Mr Koutsoubas has already told the Bureau that he will not speak for a second. Mr. Theodorakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u46	Ladies and gentlemen, the easiest thing is to stand only on Turkey's responsibilities, not least for the future of Cyprus. The hard thing is to try a cool imprint, exploring all the parameters that led to the last dead end. Potami, as you know, supported without stars the effort of President Anastasiades and the leaders of Cyprus to find a solution to a problem where his perpetuation is not in favour of either the citizens of Cyprus or of calm in the region. We wanted, and we said so at the first moment, to guarantee security for both communities and especially for Greek Cypriots who have lived in occupation for so many years. Failure in Switzerland is a bad development for the people of Cyprus, for Greek Cypriots and Turkish Cypriots. And I would like to ask myself: are we all in agreement with this wording? Because I'm afraid there are some people in this Chamber who are at ease with the last shipwreck. They're the ones who like to hide the problems under the carpet. They are the ones who always cowardle at the critical moment and carry the problems to the next generations. They are those who do not want to live together Greek Cypriots and Turkish Cypriots. And finally, they are the ones who, demanding everything today, help the occupying troops to stay on the island forever. We sincerely hope that the Greek Government's explanation of the reasons for the collapse of the negotiations will go hand in hand with the assessments of both the European Union and the UN. Because it is not a question of leaving the negotiations intact communication. It's about not leaving unreal. Unfortunately, Mr Tsipras, the image of some of your ministers does not help to create a sense of trust and security for the citizens, no matter how different they change. If the explanations you gave us by listening to Mr Kotzias do not coincide with the interpretations that will eventually be made in Cyprus, in the UN, in the European Union, then the questions will be many. It will be another sign that negotiations, whether in economic or national terms, are not your strong card. Ladies and gentlemen, forty-three years, six Secretary-General of the United Nations, nine drafts, one referendum, international conferences - three-way, five-way - and no progress at all makes a feeling that everything is in vain. And here we have to resist. The Cyprus issue must not leave the international agenda, as Turkey wants and as it has already said. Nikos Anastasiades and Mustafa Akiji are perhaps the last leaders who have memories of Cyprus before the invasion. And it is sad that they have not even been able to agree on a proposal this time in a Cypriot property agreement. But we invite them to insist. We call on Anastasiades and Akiji to disprove the story, which wants discussions and never solutions. The hope for liberation and reunification of the island must be kept alive. All efforts must be made to ensure that the acquis of the last negotiating process is not cancelled. If we do not, then all together, Greece and Cyprus, we must be ready to face the dangers and challenges in the region. But before that we must insist. It must not be history written that so many years we have lost no chance of losing any chance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u47	Thank you very much, Mr Theodorakis. The Greek Foreign Minister Mr Nikolaos Kotzias has the floor. You have the floor for five minutes, but you will have time, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Mr President. You know that I am also in my parliamentary presence as a Foreign Minister. But since we have a subject for me, let me say a few things. First of all, I would like to thank the parties for the attitude they have taken during the negotiations and for allowing the backs of the Greek negotiating team to be well-built, uncertain and uncertain about how the majority of the Greeks see this negotiation. I want to thank everyone and officially from this Step. I also want to tell you that this morning we have the first draft from the Secretary-General to the Security Council. It's the plan he's submitted. It has three interesting findings: Firstly, it says that the Geneva Conference marked a historic and decisive stage in the talks - it does not evaluate, namely, that it has failed or that it will not continue - and that it was the first time that the two communities and three guarantors met to discuss security and guarantee funds. It's paragraph 4 of the plan for the Security Council. In the same paragraph it says that it is a great step that the issue of guarantees has been raised in the negotiations itself, and in paragraph 42 it stresses that the organisation remains at the disposal of the parties, namely all of us that were involved, in the context of its role to facilitate the further process of the Cyprus issue. In other words, it gives us an open way to continue to fight for a proper and proper solution to the Cyprus problem. Secondly - and I shall put this out in the Minutes - paragraph 21 of the last European summit is exclusively devoted to Cyprus, following a debate caused by the President of Cyprus and the Prime Minister of Greece at the Council meeting itself. I put it down, because there was a question why the Prime Minister did not deal with this issue. There's a letter in writing. It is paragraph 21 of the conclusions. [[At this point, Minister Nikolaos Kotzias presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Stenography and Practice Directorate.]] We also made sure that the European Union was the first observer at this five-day conference. Thirdly, we have been able to express the will and opinion at the bilateral meetings that there is no way the European Union can accept intervention rights on its territory, in a Member State that it claimed and demanded from Turkey. These two texts on the clarifications. Now I'll tell you my thoughts. This lesson I took for myself, because we all need to learn, is that a well-designed and persistent negotiation, together with strong cooperation with the Cypriot Government - and we have five times Mr Anastasiades to repeat yesterday at the press conference how strong and stable this cooperation was - gives us the opportunity to promote a agenda different from what the Cyprus negotiations were in the past. Also, when you have substantiated positions, written and oral, and you promote them and you claim them, it is easier to understand your opinion. From this point of view, in the two London and Zurich treaties concerning Greece, because it co-signed, we proposed that the Guarantee Treaty, a mechanism for implementing and supervising the abolition of the Guarantee Treaty and the removal of Turkish troops, which was personally worked out with the proposals of Cyprus and our UN Secretary-General and was the proposal that came on Thursday evening to the final negotiation, where it was exposed by the hypocrisy and bilingualism of Turkey. For Turkey at meetings with the UN Secretary-General promised to accept compromise solutions, and when the UN Secretary-General in the morning hours - at 2.00 a.m. - before Turkey's refusal to submit in writing the proposals he had made to him, he undertook to formulate it himself in a paragraph, Turkey refused that he had made such a debate with the Secretary-General, withdrew any compromise proposal and obliged the UN Secretary-General on the spot to say that "this conference is ending, because Turkey has said to me, but it is saying here and I am taking the blame that I have misunderstood Turkey's proposals". Therefore, it does not find it extremely polite, when there is a very clear wording of the Secretary-General, to put it in the Greek Parliament at question. Also, with regard to the Security Treaty, which has two annexes, I would remind you that the Security Treaty says that the troops of Greece, Cyprus and Turkey can be nine hundred and six hundred, respectively, that they must be in a joint headquarters and that they must be under rotating administration of Cyprus first year, Greece second, Turkey third. And when the Turks were questioned what they meant by a security treaty in this very context, they were not even able to agree with their own request, to maintain this Treaty and not to withdraw their army, because they did not have an accurate picture of what it meant. The UN - and this again for the sake of our negotiating tactic - has adopted our proposal for a friendship pact, which will keep cultural, economic, educational, educational relations between the three countries, Turkey, Greece and Cyprus alive, but will abolish any possibility of interfering with anyone and any such military aspect that would facilitate in such a direction. Secondly, I would like to point out that this policy with these proposals has had moments with the vast majority within the conference. Even the British were forced to adopt them. Even the UN and the European Union supported them. This is the first time that the Turks have been in negotiations for the Cyprus issue on their own, and I consider this to be an important step, because this important step has now been taken on the Cyprus agenda and it is the acquis that Cyprus must become a normal, normal state, i.e. without foreign troops and foreign guarantees. I am pleased to say that our statement that Cyprus must be a normal state has been accepted and adopted by the Secretary-General of the UN. In other words, we do not need to make many interpretations or to listen to the specific customers, who have some other kind of connection with the Canals concerning the Cyprus problem, who met evenings with a particular man from the UN, against the will of the Secretary-General, but we must follow what the Secretary-General said, namely that the Turkish troops must leave, that they must stop the intervention rights, that there must be a friendship pact and that he has proposed a monitoring mechanism for all of this. It is important, because in the negotiations the Turks were forced under our insistence to explain what they want all this. Cavusoglu said for hours: 'I have explained them to the UN Secretary-General'. 'What do you want, Mr Tsavosoglou, the right to intervene?' In the end he said: 'I want to tell you what I want to do: so that Turkey can intervene whenever it wants and whenever necessary'. ‘How to intervene?’. 'Military'. These aren't opportunities. These are revelations. It is also a revelation that when President Anastasiades insisted on the Turkish Minister for Foreign Affairs finally telling him why he is as flexible as he was trying to say, and if he just wants an agreement that says "as far as the Turkish army is concerned, Turkey will be flexible, as far as the security rights are concerned, Turkey will be flexible, with regard to interventions that Turkey will be flexible" - that is what President Anastasiades said - he was forced to say that Turkey does not want to get its troops out of Cyprus, does not want to resign from its supposed intervention rights and that these should be maintained for fifteen years and then a review - review - on whether or not it is ripe to leave. In other words, he wanted to maintain all these interests and all these possibilities in a new situation with new conditions for Cyprus. We did not want to blame anyone. We went there because we wanted to solve the problem. The proof that we wanted to solve the problem is that, in all matters, we had prepared all our partners with the concrete proposals we had and with the support of the respective Cyprus. We have, however, been to negotiate the Cyprus issue with one principle which seems to de facto not all parties agree. What is this principle? "The internal issues of Cyprus, the internal aspect of Cyprus is not about Greece, because Greece is only a guarantee force." Apart from emotions and historical ties, apart from the fact that we were all civilized in my generation thanks and - more rightly - because of the Cyprus problem, Greece is not entitled to intervene within Cyprus and whenever it attempted to do so in the past, Cyprus and the Cypriot people and Hellenism paid for it in full. Therefore, it is not our country's job to assess the negotiation of the internal aspects of the Cyprus issue, and that is why we strongly supported it, because our aim was to keep Turkey away from the internal aspect, to force everyone to accept what the UN wanted and which it did, namely that the internal aspect of the Cyprus issue is negotiated between the two communities, one of which is the leader at the same time of the Republic of Cyprus. We have not, therefore, been involved in the internal aspect. If there is criticism in the Greek Government of any agreements - which others consider to be good - on the internal aspect of the Cyprus issue, I understand that they have no criticism of the policy we pursued on security and security, of the way in which we put the European Union at the negotiating table and of the fact that the UN for the first time officially stated with its Secretary-General's lips that there can be no third country with intervention rights in Cyprus. And that was a big step. We are not in a time when we were being blamed for 15 years ago that we did not want a solution. We are not in the time when it was considered self-evident that the Turks should retain these rights. We are now at a time when, apart from Turkey, no one sees it as self-evident to have an army in a third country, against its will and to be able to intervene in it. In order to be able to achieve anything that we have achieved by upgrading these issues, the exemption of the Greek Cypriot element from the responsibilities and the war of responsibility that has taken place in the past, we have dealt with all the issues that were open with the Republic of Cyprus together. It is clear that the Cyprus problem has not ended since the Switzerland Conference. It is obvious that the problems are there waiting for us. However, the negotiating position of Cyprus and Greece is different from before the Switzerland Conference. And the theme, the agenda of the Cyprus agenda is different. It has been accepted that its core is what had been forgotten, namely guarantees and security. Are we going to see Turkish challenges? Possibly. Don't think the Turks are invincible. Look at how Islamists - jihadists easily destroyed much of the Turkish mechanism within Syria itself and the major problems the Turkish military machine has there. I don't underestimate, but I don't want to overestimate anyone. One must shape one's alliances, have the necessary strategy, have joint cooperation with Cyprus. That is why next Monday, after the European Union's Foreign Affairs Council in Brussels, we will find in Cyprus the same Greek delegation that was in Switzerland - fewer, of course - to discuss how we should continue and pursue the solution of the Cyprus problem, how we will make use of the current opportunities and the problems that arise, to discuss customs union and European policy towards Turkey, to establish a common line of leap forward with the Republic of Cyprus, to discuss how we can use the new possibilities for public diplomacy and the pursuit, to have high contacts everywhere in the world and to explain what really happened, so that with particular truth - because the truth is always specific - to strengthen the front of the forces and our internationally seeking a fair and sustainable solution to the Cyprus problem. In other words, a solution without occupation troops, without third-party guarantees, with the Cypriot people deciding for themselves. When I say that the Cypriot people decide themselves, I mean the two communities and the three minorities. In two and a half years of the negotiations Greece defended the rights of the Turkish Cypriot community, to feel as much as possible that its future is on this island, in Megalonissos. For it is the Turkish Cypriots who suffered the boot of the Turkish army and half of them were forced to flee abroad. To give the greatest sense and security to the entire Cypriot people, especially to the Greek Cypriots, but also to restore the rights of the three minorities, which is our duty and to take them into account in Cyprus itself. I'll remind you of something I told the Secretary-General. In the future there may be citizens who want to be called Cyprus alone. We've seen legal cases with Bosnia in this case. We must also be careful in this, because democracy in Cyprus must be a democracy of the communities and also a democracy of the citizens, who have their own individual interests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u49	Thank you very much to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Ladies and gentlemen, the political leaders will answer Mr Mitsotakis, Mrs Gennimatas, Mr Michaloliakos and Mr Leventis and close with the tritology on the substance - let us call it a dentist - Prime Minister Tsipras. Please very much for the time economy, precisely because in the first phase most have used plenty of time. Each one is responsible for this process. Please very much, Mr. Mitsotakis, Chief of Officer's Opposition, take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u50	I will be brief, Mr President. I will make four points for restoring historical truth. I have heard Mr Kammenos say that for the first time, in negotiations on the Cyprus issue, the issue of guarantees and intervention rights has been raised with so much emphasis on the Greek side. That's a mistake, Mr. Cammene. This was a permanent Greek position. To confirm what I am saying, I am presenting to the Minutes, Mr President and Mr Ministers, a statement by Mr Koumoutsakou, a spokesman at the time of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in June 2008, an official position of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. "In such a context Greece considers that guarantee schemes or intervention rights are obsolete. They are reasonable and practically foreign and I would say unknown in the European context. For members of the European family, no such matters shall arise.’;
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u51	It was unnecessarily unnecessarily.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u52	You should know, Mr. Cammene, that for the first time...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u53	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u54	You're welcome, Minister. Go on, Mr. Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u55	...for the first time, there was a negotiation concerning the two communities and the three guarantee powers. The official position of the Greek Government was the same, unchanging one and nonetheless does not constitute any conquest of the current government of the fact that it repeated what we have always acknowledged was on the basis of any solution to the Cyprus issue, that there can be no occupation troops and that the framework of guarantees and invasive rights in 1960 is a framework of anachronistic, which has no place in the 21st century. Secondly, on the occasion of a position made by Mr Theodorakis, which I think is right and I want to support, I have to say this. Indeed, Mr Anastasiades and Mr Akinji as representatives of the two communities and because of their age have experienced the drama of the invasion and division of Cyprus. There is a risk, as long as time is not solved, that younger generations, perhaps, will assume that the basic framework on which all efforts to resolve the Cyprus issue have been built, that is, the solution within a bizonal, bi-communal federation is doomed to failure. It will be a great mistake if this logic prevails, and that is why it is extremely important for us to recognise clearly the fact that we have failed to achieve the desired result in this round of negotiations, to bear the responsibilities, but also to retain any positive elements from this negotiation and to say clearly, Minister, that this story is not over here. We should continue, we should insist. I will indeed acknowledge the fact that it is good that the issue of guarantees and invasive rights is now being raised at United Nations level. This is something positive for Hellenism, for Greece and above all for Cyprus. But in this context, Mr President - and I come to my third point - let me make a brief comment on the issue with which you started your position on the Cyprus file. History is well-known in the national Parliament and it concerns a committee set up in the mid-1980s, which, if I am not mistaken, made a number of different findings, in which each party, at that time, reflected its own interpretation of what happened in those tragic days of 1974. Mr President, Prime Minister, I would like to express my commitment to the time, not to the initiative - I want to be clear - to implement this decision. In a period of time only a few days after the failure of the negotiations and when we come here and claim that, despite the negative effects of this case, we want to keep this dynamic alive, I am not at all sure, Mr Tsipras and Mr President, that the time for implementing this initiative is the right time. I want to formally present it to the National Representation, and I want you to reassess this initiative. I would also not have referred to this issue if Mr Leventis had not made a reference, because he is not the main subject of today's debate - Mr Leventis wondered what the official position of the National Representation on the issue of the name of Skopje is. Mr. Leventis may be old in politics, but he is young in this Chamber and he obviously does not remember that there is a official position of the Greek Government, validated by the National Representation, for a complex name with a geographical designation for all uses, Erga omnes. This is the official position of the National Representation, as was at least reflected in the Karamanlis government's programme statements in 2007 and as confirmed once again after the negotiations in Bucharest. The question for you, Prime Minister, and for you, Mr Kammene, is whether this position represents the majority of government. This is the official position of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, correct me if I am wrong, Mr Kotzias, at least in this way is presented in the official announcements of the Ministry, but it is a first-class opportunity for the Prime Minister and Mr Kammenos to clarify whether this is the official position not of the government, but of the government majority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u56	Thank you. Mrs Fotini Gennamata has the floor, also for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u57	Ladies and gentlemen, the shipwreck of the negotiating effort to resolve the Cyprus problem has caused not only disappointment, but also reflection. We are concerned about the future of the Greater Island and the Cypriot people. Turkey, because of its internal situations and liquidity in the wider region, is unpredictable. Its movements are usually characterized by nervousness and challengingness. Now, after the shipwreck, they are moving scripts and threats of new tension in the wider area and in the occupied areas. I would remind you here that Greece, with coolness, wisdom and effectiveness, has managed difficult situations around the Cyprus issue and has prevented unpleasant complications, complications and even had significant successes. I would therefore remind you that in 1983, when Rauf Denktash, with the backs of Turkey, declared the pseudo-state in a so-called 'Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus', the then government of Andreas Papandreou, with a plan and coordination, blocked the wave of his recognition, resulting in the illegal status of invasion and occupation not having received any international certificate of legality. Secondly, in 2004, when Kostas Simitis' government closed down, without asterisks, terms and prerequisites for Cyprus' accession to the European Union, despite Turkey's threats of response without limits and with all means, it did not open no no nostrils. Of course, again in PASOK governments, this time Giorgos Papandreou, in convergence with Egypt, Israel, Cyprus and Greece, by creating the conditions for international law to be a regulator of bilateral and multilateral relations in our region, so that economic interests can become a bridge of understanding, cooperation and peace. In the Cypriot and Greek Turkish, as I said in my protology and it was heard by everyone in the Chamber, there is a national line and it has been drawn up for years. On this line we have to continue, so the first thing the government needs to do is to seize the previous governments. The constant information of the parties and the close cooperation of the Foreign Minister with all its predecessors is essential and self-evident. I would stress the above, because the important thing today is what will happen from now on. He needs attention and vigilance. We believe that the resolution effort should continue, by exploiting the new data and the progress made in the individual negotiating chapters. It must not be abandoned and cannot be abandoned. The future of Cyprus lies in reunification as a federation within the European Union. Of course, it is up to the Cypriot Government to take appropriate initiatives at a time when it thinks it is appropriate. We, for our part, will continue to support the Cypriot people and their political leadership in trying to achieve the solution. We are ready to take any relevant initiative in our European and international relative political space for this purpose. We believe deeply in national understanding, and the debate here today has shown that we can achieve it, but not a sound card understanding. We will be consistent in this line. The problem must be tackled by the government, which does not lose opportunity for polarization and division. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u58	Thank you very much, Mrs. Gennamas. Mr. Michaliokos has the floor for three minutes, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u59	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, despite our exclusion, we do not have the micropsy not to recognise that the shipwreck - within many introductory days - of the negotiations in Switzerland was a diplomatic victory in Greece, which completely revealed Turkey's expansion plans, with its insistence on keeping Attila's troops in the region. Of course, in what Mr Kotzias, Mr Kotzias, said earlier, we have some objections because the internal security issues are fatal in some cases and the security issues of the whole island. Here, not with your responsibility, with the responsibility of the leadership of Cyprus, they have made some decisions, which are dynamising the general security of Cyprus, such as the question of the recognition of a party of settlers, the rotating Presidency, etc., all of which we have not reached. In any case, the best solution for the Cyprus issue, as the Archbishop of Cyprus said, is not to solve these conditions. We have achieved this with Turkey's attitude and its intransigence, and that is certainly a good thing. Let us not forget the Treaty of Lausanne, what was the case with Imbros and Tenedos, and that a similar situation, with a solution that will essentially be the Turkishisation of Cyprus, can lead Cyprus to the fate of Imbros and Tenedos, where the majority of residents were Greeks and Turkey's plans have become a very small minority of dozens of people. As far as the questions I have raised are concerned, I have not received a clear answer now if, with the recent events of the exploitation of the hydrocarbons of Cyprus, we have a Turkish challenge if Greece will stand wholeheartedly on the side of Cyprus. I hear about alliances with Israel, with Egypt. I wish there were these alliances. I have serious reservations that, if Hellenism is at stake, it will be saved by a European Union, by NATO, by America, Egypt, Jordan or by no means knowing who else. Cyprus can only save it. Because in the next process, regarding the Cyprus Folder, we have no right to speak, of course we also denounce the major mistakes made in 1974. We do not represent those who made those mistakes. But don't forget...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u60	It was treason!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u61	It was treason, of course!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u62	It was a betrayal of the junta!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u63	Not just the junta. It was a betrayal of politicians too. Mr. Philly, the second...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u64	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u65	It was a betrayal of the junta!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u66	Mr. Philie, all right. Go on, Mr. Michaloliaco.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u67	Yes, sir. So since it was only a treason of the junta, let's give the Greek people the file - which you keep seven seals closed - and let's mention that on August 14, which became "Attila 2" the junta of Greece did not rule, but the Transpoliticism, which led it from this betrayal to the present situation.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u68	Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u69	Shame on you, Bolshevik!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u70	Shame on you! Fascist!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u71	Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u72	Really, we're talking about a betrayal of Cyprus. The submarines in Kyrenia did not send them by Arapakis, which New Democracy and other democratic forces, PASOK, had him an honorary guest every 24 July at the celebration of democracy. The junta was to Arapakis, who was an honored person and stayed with his grades and all that? Those who betrayed Cyprus must show their names, those who did not let the submarines go down, those who did not let the F4 go down, those who said: "Cyprus is long". This is the great betrayal of Cyprus. I shall conclude with that, Mr President. We have submitted two applications, one in early 2013 and one in 2016, one in the previous President of the Parliament and one in you, Mr. Voutsi, to get access to the Cyprus Folder. It is incomprehensible that teachers and technocrats should be aware of these secrets, the House of Cyprus, but not the Members of the Greek Parliament, the representatives of the nation with the vote of the Greek people. I would not like to extend to the issue of the name of Skopje, for which we have been punished with exclusion by the Minister from the National Foreign Policy Council. But it sounds like "Bardar's Macedonia". Bardaris arrives in Thessaloniki, Mr. Kotzia, if you don't know. That's all and thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u73	The speech is made by the Minister of National Defence - President of the Independent Greeks Mr. Panos Kammenos for a short time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u74	I will be very brief, Mr President. I take the floor for something the Chief of Staff Responsibility referred to. I would like to remind you on the issue of Cyprus that at those times the Minister for Foreign Affairs was Mrs Bakoyannis, who was clearly supporting the Annan Plan, unlike the parliamentary majority of the New Democracy, who resisted the Annan Plan. In fact, several of us spoke both to Cyprus and here. On the issue of the official position on the name of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, I would like to say that the founder of the New Democracy was Constantine Karamanlis. So I will refer you to Karamanlis' tear at the airport when it announced that Macedonia is one and only. I see Mr. Kumucakos and Mr. Tsiaras laughing.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u75	We knew what you were going to say about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u76	I would remind you, therefore, that the only decision that exists at national level is the Council of Heads of Party under the chairmanship of Constantine Karamanlis, who unanimously, apart from the JRC - in order not to react again - took the decision not to use the term 'Macedonia'. If you wish to change the position of Constantine Karamanlis, you may request a convening of the Political Heads of State from Mr. Paylopoulos...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u77	The Minister's here to tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u78	Mr. Kotzia, tell Mr. Kotzia that. That's the office of the Ministry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u79	That's the position of the Ministry!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u80	So I'm telling you, Mr. Mitsotakis. You changed the position of the New Democracy...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u81	Minister, with the President, please. Do not address Mr. Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u82	As far as the new position of the New Democracy is concerned, it would be good before you get to the Council of Political Heads, to ask the Macedonian Members to answer what their position is. A lot of people are close to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u83	Okay. I note that the debate today on foreign policy issues is not general.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u84	The one you voted as a Member and Minister of the New Democracy in 2007!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u85	You're welcome, Mr. Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u86	The one Mr. Kammenos voted for!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u87	Mr Vassilis Leventis has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u88	Please, be quiet. Here, Mr. Leventis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u89	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, from today's debate I can see that if there is a hot incident with Turkey, Greece does not have a national position. We'll have phones between Kammenos, Tsipras, and I don't know which other Chief. Are we going to hit, Mr. Kammenos? Are we going to hit if Turkey goes to bomb the facility? In any case, I believe that a national position should be established and that it should be shaped, not like this, in a frenzy, but through a serious debate at the level of the Heads of State or Government. I think that's the view, or we'll have Imia. The Turk is threatening. Some people may not account for his threats, because some analysts come out and say that Turkey is in a difficult position, that it is not in a position to cause damage, etc. Seems like that. But if these views do not apply, what about the country? I think that you have not taken account of this, which I consider to be inconspicuous and contemptuous on such a big issue. On the issue of the name of Skopje, I formally ask the Prime Minister to go to the President of the Republic to take a new position. For I hear of positions that blocked the term "Macedonia", old positions under Constantine Karamanlis. Also, while I was away, I heard from Mr Mitsotakis that the National Representation has accepted the term "Macedonia". So who's the government going to choose? The position of the Heads of State or Government under Constantine Karamanlis, which says "not use" or that mentioned by Mr Mitsotakis?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u90	Mr. President, what the Department of Foreign Affairs writes on his official website.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u91	I don't know what he's writing. I know what the heart of the Greek people says, that you are not entitled to recognize the word "Macedonia". That's what I know! And if another House in 2006 decided otherwise, this House should also make its decisions. And not go sign under the pretext that another House did something else. That's what I know. It's over and over! It is not these solutions to refer to the 2006 Parliament. These are not solutions. It is not fair to go to Macedonia one - one saying 'no way' and here you will have accepted the word 'Macedonia'. I say this because an ambassador of a large state mentioned to me that all Prime Ministers, including the present, have accepted a complex name with the word 'Macedonia'. And he asked me: "Do you disagree, Mr. Leventis? All the democratic parties have been accepted.' Listen to what he said! And I told him "if there was another state called 'Washington', would you sit around and look at it?" He said to me: 'No, of course.' I said to him: “Why, then, is your pride above the pride of the Greek people? I do not understand why.’ Moreover, I hear that today you are going to Kosani and tomorrow you will go somewhere else to hold meetings. Will you find a solution to the economic problem in the province, Mr. Tsipras? Is the countryside inspiring? So we have not been able in Attica to look to the countryside for a solution to the Greek problem? I don't understand that. I have told you on several occasions that with a government of a hundred and fifty-three investments they will not come here no matter how much we look for them. Jesus Christ becoming Prime Minister, no investment will come, because no one's money is stupid to lose it in a Greece with Grexit, with a government that does not believe in privatisation.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u92	Bravo! Bravo! He's worthy!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u93	Is there Grexit now?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u94	Do you believe in privatisation? Really? Is that right? Would you like with such a government? Seven years don't come into investment. Have you wondered why? Everyone's failed. George Papandreou, Samaras, Tsipras. Time isn't at the expense of Greece? The black hole doesn't grow? Responsibility for society doesn't the political system have? You're letting the people suffer? Is that it, Mr. Mitsotakis? Because they gave you the amplified, do you feel that you're close to the prime minister? You will be punished if you do not put your back on, Mr. Mitsotakis, to save the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Mr. Leventis. Before this first part of the meeting is closed, the Prime Minister, Mrs Papapega, has asked for the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u96	Because Mr Kammens considers himself an interpreter of the meetings of the parties' leaders with the President of the Republic, meetings to which he was not in - not that he has no right to have an opinion, of course he has a right - and that I, well or badly, was there, I just want to say a few words. I'll start with the second one from Plan Annan. No comms came out of that meeting, as you know. And the reason why the communiqué didn't come out is that the Communist Party of Greece disagreed with Plan Annan. We said we wouldn't sign it. And then it was estimated that there would be no communiqués, since there could not be a unanimous 'in favour' of the Annan Plan. That's the truth. I don't gossip. That's the truth! Secondly, as far as the name agreement is concerned. It wasn't just the name, then Skopje's constitution articles came in, alpha-corrupts came in. It was not only the name "Macedonia", it was a combination, it was the subject of the Macedonian ethnicity, it was the issue that there was a Macedonian minority in Greece. We had a package of disagreements. We didn't sign, because we didn't agree with the printing, just like the name was coming in. But we had a problem. There's no Macedonian ethnicity. There isn't. Geographical space exists. There is no Macedonian minority in Greece. And there were the well-known anti-corruption articles of the constitution. I am, however, in a position to say that in relation to that decision by the Heads of State or Government - anyway, we in our party have no leaders - the position of the parties in time has changed. I'm not judging whether the change was right or not. And I consider it to be a serious matter that the parties' attitude gradually changed and changed and officially reshaped. Officially done, it didn't work out. And the Coalition changed its position and the New Democracy worked out its position and the PASOK etc. And in this sense, I consider it unacceptable, Mr President of the House, that the Minister for National Defence, every time we are discussing this, should invoke a decision of 1992. The parties' positions have changed. And I am in a position - I am not going to say anything more, just the Minutes - to say and how this decision was made. And just to tell you one word. All those who supported the decision that the term "Macedonia" should not exist at the same time recognised the issue of the geographicality of the term. But below the rallys which were provoked and which were all the party leaders, we could not have had another decision. In any case, let the Minutes be published. Everyone can't come and say that's how it happened at the meeting. I feel bad. To conclude, I'm against the political gossip. The meetings are held and everyone goes out and says "he said, I said, "I said to you, I said to him." The point is what the Minutes say. And what I'm saying is for a test with the publication of the minutes. But to stop this violin of the 1992 meeting or what one and another said about the Annan Plan.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u97	Thank you. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Here, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, Mr President. Unlike some who tried to take the debate to other issues or create a sense of intense controversy, my feeling is that those who attended - with caution and not just some lines - today's debate will find that on the main guidelines for our foreign policy in terms of Cyprus, I would say one - I will not say the word 'consensus' - a coincidence of opinion. And, of course, I would like to point out that foreign policy in general and in particular, when we are in front of critical decisions or critical developments, is not the field for impression or for micro-political, micro-participatory benefits. I therefore believe that we can draw some conclusions from today's debate. I will say briefly on the Cyprus issue and the course from now on four important conclusions. Firstly, there is a broad consensus of the political parties on the need for a lasting effort to find a fair and sustainable solution to the Cyprus problem without guarantees, without an occupation army on the island and of course without third-country intervention rights in a re-established, autonomous, independent Cyprus, Member State of the European Union. The second conclusion, in which I think we could be in a hurry, is that there is also a broad consensus on the need to support the efforts of the Republic of Cyprus and its elected leadership, President Anastasiades, in whose choice, of course, and obviously, of the political system of Cyprus - which has the structures of understanding that are sometimes more advanced than our own - is also the ultimate burden of taking the crucial decisions. We do everything we can. We are taking a great deal of action on the subject of the debate, involving the guarantors, and we are taking a great deal of action in the form of an international environment capable of helping the Republic of Cyprus' efforts. The final decision, however, belongs to the Republic of Cyprus and its leadership. And I come to the third point. I think that we also agree on the need to make use of, but also to deepen the profiles in terms of the role of Cyprus not only as an independent Member State - a member of the United Nations, but also as a Member State of the European Union and, of course, the use of all international and European areas. Because, you know, the Cyprus issue is not a question of Greek-Turkish dispute. It is an international, European problem that began in the form of today, in the form of a top issue concerning the international debate, with the illegal invasion and occupation of part of northern Cyprus by Turkish troops. The fourth point - which I can at least see is a widespread coincidence - is the support on the part of Greece of the inalienable right of the Republic of Cyprus to exploit, in its own choice of manner and time, all the rights deriving from International Law and the Law of the Sea. We should stay - I think - in these four reports. Someone can find more. I believe, however, that these are four main references in which the vast majority of Members could converge and converge. Allow me, however, to point out that in view of the apparent inability to reflect serious disagreements on the Cyprus issue and on the handling of the Greek side, there has been an attempt by some to establish disagreements on other issues. Others have put them seriously, others not so serious about a meeting of the National Representation in view of important decisions or developments in the wider region. They cannot, in other words, lightly speak of the heart even political leaders of smaller parties coming up to this step and talk about the warm episodes and inability to respond to the Greek side. These issues are not being discussed in this way. And I think that from our side, and with all the disagreements we may have with the opposition parties, the Civic Opposition and other parties, we have done everything we can to ensure that there is a constant awareness and substantial exchange of views on critical, I repeat, national issues. With regard to the subject raised by Mr Mitsotakis on the nomenclature, I would like to assure the House that, with the same responsibility as we managed a crucial issue, critical negotiating phases for the Cyprus issue, we will manage - when the time comes - and the naming. The government has changed in the neighbouring country. It is obvious that a new round of negotiations is due to begin. When it starts, there will be full and open information for the parties. I would like to point out to you that, when it comes to making critical decisions at that time, you will not worry, because our concern is not just to create a coincidence within the government coalition, but a broad consensus of views on the country's position and attitude, I repeat, on a crucial national issue, a broad coincidence, which concerns all the wings of the Greek Parliament. I repeat that these crucial issues, which do not concern the present but the future of the country, the position and the role of the country on the international soil, are not appropriate for such micro-party controversy concerning the present. These are issues relating to the future and with such insight we have to deal with them. Finally, let me make two remarks. Mr. Mitsotakis, you are right that 2008 was the position of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Mr. Kumoutsakos, who was a representative at that time at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. But I want to remind you...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u99	It wasn't personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u100	I told the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but as a representative you were then responsible for expressing the official position of the Ministry. But I would like to remind you and the whole House that the history of our country's negotiation on the Cyprus issue does not begin in 2008. And I would remind you that once we had come to a project which had come, it had been approved as a plan, in any case, and had been put to the vote in Cyprus and which had been rejected by the Cypriot people. I would therefore like to remind you and the House that the Annan Plan did not provide for the immediate abolition of the guarantee treaty and the intervention right of Turkey. I would also like to remind you that the Annan Plan - I have heard Mrs Gennamas, who will probably not be well informed - provided for the abolition of guarantees when Turkey entered the European Union, namely the 'Saint Never'! I hope that it will never be the 'holy', I hope, because our opinion, Mr Mitsotakis, is identified, that Greece will have to actively support Turkey's European perspective and as a lever, if you like, of pressure on democratisation in the neighbouring country. But, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you, because I say things that are not in doubt, is the fact that, with so much emphasis at the core, the crucial issue of the Cyprus problem has been raised on the type of sunshine for the first time, in this round of negotiation, in this attempt we have made and we will continue to do - because we will continue to do - to provide a sustainable and effective solution to the Cyprus problem, without undermining the issues of the internal aspect. After all, we are not involved in this, but we only encourage both sides to be constructive. But the core of the Cyprus problem, if it is not subject to the fact that the Turkish side is constantly claiming, to be able to intervene, to intervene, in an independent country and, indeed, a Member State of the European Union, if it is not that core, who is it? So, for the first time in intensive negotiations and in a final round, the Greek side urgently raised this issue. And I would like the truth, Mr Mitsotakis, Mr Kumucako, ladies and gentlemen, not to be tabled in the Minutes, because they are confidential documents, but to the heads of the parties, of course, the Minister for Foreign Affairs will also be able to give them a chance to see them - to stand by the UN Secretary-General's report of 10 July on the plan for the forthcoming solution, where he makes a clear reference to the first Geneva Conference, the Geneva Conference. It is a document that we will give you, so that you can read it in detail. I'm talking about today's 2017 document. He is therefore making a clear reference to his report on the facts. He makes a clear reference to the first Geneva process, saying that it marked a historic stage in the talks, as it was the first time in the history that the two communities and three guarantors met to discuss the security and guarantee chapter. Because in the Annan Plan, which was given for approval to the Cypriot people, there was not even a debate on the crucial issue of security and guarantees. So the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Greek Government had a solid strategy and a line to defend the critical national interests on the basis of substance and not formulas, and if sometimes it happens that we do not disagree, it is not wrong to say so publicly. We're not losing that. I conclude by replying to Mr Theodorakis's question on whether what we have said today, by informing Parliament, will also be the findings of the Secretary-General of the United Nations or of the European Union, which - I am passing away - we have also succeeded in the first time in the negotiations and that there will be a substantial reference to the Council's decisions on the Cyprus issue. Mr Theodorakis, I would not respond if I did not know that an attempt is being made by a number of circles, once again, to give the impression that it is all right for Turkey, which was ultimately not the fault of Turkey - not the declarations in the corridors, but, in this respect, in this respect - inconsistent with the most crucial issue, the right to intervene and the presence of the troops, but it is also the same or possibly more, the Greek Cypriot - Greek side. I would like to refer you to the official statements, but I imagine that you will have the opportunity - and if you do not, I imagine it will be a way - to find out that during the negotiations and then, all the parties - I am referring to the European Union and the UN - have given credit to the Greek side for how constructive and creative it has been in the negotiations. Because we were the only side at the negotiating table that put forward proposals, new ideas and were talking about the substance, criticising not windmills but on the proposals we had at our disposal. You'll find out, I don't want to go against it. It would indeed be a big problem if what you say were true, but it is not the case. Of course, unfortunately, we have no solution, and that is the big issue, not to take credit but to have a solution. But believe me, if there is no real desire on Turkey for a solution to the Cyprus problem, it will be difficult to find a solution. But we must insist, with our alliances, on our crystal clear positions by exploiting the European and international factor, to force the Turkish side to a more flexible attitude. I'm closing the file. Do not have any reservations, Mr Mitsotakis, because this is not an attempt that started yesterday. It is an attempt, which has been under way for a year and a half, if I am not mistaken, on the part of the two national delegations. It is a moral obligation on our part to hand the Cyprus file to the Cypriot Parliament and thus to the people of Cyprus. Let me tell you something else. You know, without wanting to oppose your argument that you have reservations about the timing, but always when this debate was opened, was that not the argument that the timing is not good? This has always been the argument and always, perhaps, how much more so, as long as the Cyprus issue is not resolved, there will be objections and reservations. I think we have nothing to fear, but nothing. Greece, the Hellenic Republic, the Republic of Cyprus have nothing to fear from the truth. The truth, however often hard it is, is always ransoming and can always open up creative streets. So give light to the truth. Do not worry, this will not be done without consultation, it will not be done in a fragmentary way. After all, the relevant protocols have been signed, I think by unanimity of the Conference of Presidents, which are protocols between the two National Representations foresee the delivery, but the opening of the dossier will take place when both sides consider this to be an issue for which the President will inform us - that this is the right time. But I think it is a moral obligation on our part to deliver the file to the Republic of Cyprus and to the people of Cyprus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u101	Mr President, please speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u102	Under the Rules of Procedure, Mr President, you do not have the right to quantify.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u103	I request the floor because Mr Kammenos referred to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u104	You want the floor for a specific point raised by Mr Kammenos. But if a response is needed, I have to give the floor. Mr. Mitsotakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u105	I fully understand the need for Mr Kammenos to claim a vital political and electoral space. But this, Mr Kammene, does not deny the fact that as a member of the New Democracy in 2007 and as State Secretary of the Government of Costas Karamanlis, you were then drafted by your vote, which is the official position of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs today. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Ms. CHRISTOPOULOUou, takes over the President's seat.]] I read from the website of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: "Our position is clear: Complex name by geographical definition before the word "Macedonia" which will apply to all, Erga omnes, for all internal and international use." You have a right, Mr. Cammene, to change your mind. But there is a major issue here. This is not about a top foreign policy issue, the Minister of National Defence - look, I do not want to underestimate another government portfolio, but we are not talking here about the Minister of Tourism - the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Prime Minister have a different view. There is a major issue right now with your position, Mr Cammene! [[Noise in the Chamber]] There is a major issue and you should understand that this heirly alliance that you have built is an alliance that we believe has a cohesive factor in it and that is staying in power. But it can't be an alliance but a kart, Prime Minister! Here, then, is a top foreign policy issue, Madam President, a matter which is stated. There's no way the government won't show up... [[Noise protests from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Don't laugh, Mr. Cammene. Don't laugh, because it's very serious.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u106	Please, not mess it up now at the end. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u107	Here for a top foreign policy issue, there is a key difference between the two government partners. Prime Minister, you - not Mr Kammenos - must address this issue. How can you have the Minister of National Defence a politician who questions the government's central line - let us leave what our position, our position is known, we are not afraid to say it - on a crucial foreign policy issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u108	Madam President, I would like to speak, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u109	Now you're all gonna ask for the floor. Okay. Mr. Cammene, you have the floor for two minutes. Try to be concise.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u110	Madam President, for the first time I hear that the statements made by the representative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are draft laws. I have never voted for this because it has never come for vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u111	Didn't you vote for the 2007 programming posts?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u112	Mr. Mitsotakis, please don't have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u113	I have never voted, Mr Mitsotakis, to change the position you said in 2008. Since 2008 you have read.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u114	In 2007 you did it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u115	You said 2008. Since 2008, you have read a statement from the representative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It's not a law. Secondly, Mr Mitsotakis, there must be an existential problem for you. For when Antonis Samaras dropped your government, then he shook the stadium and shouted "Alitis, traitor Samaras". Do you have any coherence in your party? We'll figure it out. The Foreign Minister will negotiate and this government will once again be a winner, as he has come to Cyprus. We neither had any type of Annan, your sister was saying other things than Karamanlis, nor in the veto for NATO that Karamanlis was saying other things, and your sister wanted to hand over half of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u116	What are you talking about? Aren't you embarrassed?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u117	Be sure the government's majority will find them fine.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u118	Madam President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u119	Mr Kotzia, you have not mentioned this point.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u120	For a minute, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u121	Please have the floor, Mr Kotzia.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u122	Well, I'm making an appeal. Today I want us to discuss the Cyprus issue, to express as much as... [[Noise in the Chamber]] If I remember, I haven't interrupted anyone in this House, nor have I caused anyone. I'm talking that way because I'm a Minister of State. In amphitheatres, I know how to answer, but this is a parliament. I know, I have a lot of experience with that. Well, we wanted to have a debate on the Cyprus issue and get as much unanimity as possible so that the Ambassador of the Republic of Cyprus can convey this climate of the Greek Parliament. Because he knows well, anyone who has dealt with foreign policy that in the 2008 declarations I have a great deal to answer but it is not at the moment. Secondly, as far as Skopje is concerned. There is a post - indeed the Chief of Officer Representation has been right - to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs since 2007. I have decided not to hurt her, because since 2007 it is considered that there is a continuation, and if I hurt her and changed her, it would be considered as having a new political line.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u123	You have made statements, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u124	Mr. Kumucaco, why don't you let me talk to you once to the end? I'm so kind to you. I'm not questioning you for 2008. Well, I've made an appeal to the parties so that anyone he wanted to give me his views on the name. You remember this hot conversation in the House with the papers in your hand. We will discuss, as we have said, the Skopje issue in a quiet manner at the National Foreign Policy Council, because this is not the right time for a debate in plenary. In the week that comes, I will see Mr Nimic who comes back to Europe to discuss the subject of the naming. Mr. Nimic was five days ago in Skopje and it was impossible to meet him because I was in Switzerland's negotiation. Within the next weekend, I will meet him and we will discuss, we will hear his proposals and his impressions from the meetings he had in Skopje. The Greek diplomacy - I assure you - has identified the problems, the contradictions, the difficulties of this negotiation and studied all the negotiations. I personally have seen all the minutes of the last 15 years. You know how I work. Based on this, we have recorded what the needs of Greek diplomacy are and we have already taken practical steps. These practical measures, because we will go to negotiation, are not announced but certainly - and I thank the Prime Minister very much - with the same attention that we have faced the Cyprus issue, we are faced with a series of negotiations that we have before us in the coming weeks, one of which is Skopje. That is what I wanted to clarify.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u125	Madam President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u126	You don't have a tritology. You have the floor on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u127	I am well aware, Madam President, and thank you very much. It has just been mentioned that we are not aware of and documents have been lodged on the side of the Foreign Minister, and I want to put two issues in place. I said in my prototype and in my dentext that Cyprus is a Member State of the European Union and therefore does not need any guarantees. In itself, the European Union can ensure the security of the citizens of the Republic of Cyprus. That is what happened, namely Cyprus became a Member State of the European Union on 1 May 2004, following the painful and systematic efforts of the PASOK government. It is precisely this development that today enables us to make progress with regard to guarantees. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Not only are we not aware, but it would be good to recognise all the efforts of the previous governments, because that means national understanding. Unless today's debate was simply about changing the agenda. As the conclusions of the summit have been tabled in the Minutes, I would like to point out that what has been tabled in the Minutes since 16 December 2016 and not at the last session. The text is also available to the parliamentary authors, let us see that there is no reference to the Cyprus issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u128	Ladies and gentlemen, please do not go because we shall vote on the second part after the second part. For this reason, please, let us shorten the procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, the special agenda for the first part has been completed in accordance with Rule 142a of Parliament's Rules of Procedure on informing this House by Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras on developments in the negotiations on the Cyprus issue. We are now entering the second part on the communication from the President of the Parliament, pursuant to Rule 51(4) of the Rules of Procedure, on the Cooperation Protocol between the Greek Parliament and the House of Representatives of the Republic of Cyprus on access to the material in the Cyprus file and decision on it. Please, Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u129	Ladies and gentlemen, I feel a particular responsibility before you on this issue. In particular, however, I feel touched - and I say this sincerely - because forty-three years it is not just much, it is too much and they have shaped a historical breach of memory and responsibility. In this sense, it is a matter of historical debt with moral, political and other dimensions, the issue that the Prime Minister mentioned earlier. In my generation back then, too old, we were sticking up some stickers, saying "I don't forget" about Cyprus. Forty-three years have passed, and that "I don't forget", perhaps there was an alibi collective for oblivion, deliberate or inappropriate of an entire society, of an entire country. We are obliged to place ourselves on the substance. I am very moved because with the Minister of National Defence and also with representatives of all the parties in this House, in the last few months, we have been receiving from sixteen children's - soldiers in Tanagra from sixteen coffers. Apparently, our peers would be now, but they didn't have time to live. That's when we used to be. Now, the process has just begun - in recent years I mean - and because of DNA technology, etc., trying to settle their accounts with their relatives. It is an incredible, sad story, which concerns a war - let me - which has never been declared. They are the victims of warfare, which are not mentioned anywhere like this, because there was no declaration of war on either side. That is why when we welcome the victims to their parents, their brothers in tragic and dramatic situations, it is not possible for the Greek state today to deliver a true price, a celebrity, a petition. It's just that some reasons come out and some writings are rendered. It is, in fact, a dramatic case, because it has thousands of other victims and thousands of missing persons behind it. These are things that we know very well, but for which the investigations have so far not been possible to proceed and to be responsible. In this sense, I repeat that I will give you and I will submit all the information so that the relevant decision can be taken, which we have heard before us by the Prime Minister. I would like to present the minutes of yesterday's sitting of the Conference of Presidents, where this issue has been raised.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u130	I want to table the Cooperation Protocol between the Greek Parliament and the House of Representatives of the Republic of Cyprus on access to the material of the «Faced of Cyprus», which was signed on 21 January 2016.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u131	I shall also present the additional Annex to the Cooperation Protocol on Access to the Materials of the ‘Cyprus Fact’ signed on 15 February 2017.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u132	The President of the Cypriot Parliament, Mr Giannakis Homer, referred to this in the speech he made here in Parliament. I am also making these Minutes with the commitments that have been made and with a very serious work that has been done this year and a half.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u133	With the help of the parties - in the sense that no party has asked to intervene or block this process, in addition to what Mr Michaloliakos said earlier - 'I make a request twice' and so on. - and with the help of the press representatives who respected it, this process has been left for a year and a half. I'm filing a chart of testimonials. It's a hundred and thirty nine files. It is about the ninety witness testimonies in the committee, all those responsible, former or present, to the Committee of Inquiry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u134	Next to each of these files the number of pages is recorded. It is from sixty to two hundred and fifty pages, which relate to the testimonial testimonies for the entire period and which was the main object, on the basis of which, as has been said before, the findings were formed. This is a conclusion then not of the majority, but of the majority of the PASOK, because there has never been a vote in this House on the findings. One conclusion was tabled in October 1988, two more findings by Kostas Cappos and by Mr Varvitsiotis were tabled, a debate was held in the Greek Parliament on all of this, and that is where everything was stopped. There has been neither a Parliament decision on this, although there has been a commitment to restoring the debate nor a political initiative has been taken on this matter. The twenty-nine years later, when the Cyprus issue was discussed here, the Cyprus issue was on the agenda for a discussion of the parties' Presidents or on the occasion of the Annan Plan, etc. This issue was raised outside any procedure and investigation, while on the part of the Cypriot Parliament several times this issue had come as a request, at least for communication. Let me have a little history, so that we all know about this issue, which is particularly important. We need to know that in 1975 there was a decision by the Minister of State where the then Minister of National Defence was granted the right to lift the criminal prosecutions against those responsible for the Cyprus tragedy. Then there were binding political public positions of Prime Minister in 1975 and 1976-1977, 1978 and 1983, if you see the Minutes of Parliament, several times the demand was that this issue should be discussed, that the documentary be collected, that the materials should be collected, etc. Finally in 1986, a committee of inquiry was held with the participation of all parties. Two extensions are given, and within two years, on 31-10-1988 the conclusion I mentioned was tabled. No publication has been made of the minutes, as was announced, although the Minutes are here, they are in Parliament, they are regularly, as are the Minutes of all other meetings and are obviously accessible, accessible, by any parliamentary group and by any MEP. The study of these Minutes is of great value. We talked about the two protocols. This protocol, which we signed, confirms the access of the House of Representatives of the Republic of Cyprus to the material collected or used by the Committee of Inquiry for the Cyprus Folder. Two committees of experts and staff and university professors were also set up. Both committees would cooperate in order to classify, digitise this material. Thirdly, the material to which access will be given to the House of Representatives will be used exclusively for parliamentary or scientific, historical purposes, with the approval of the respective Presidents of the two parliaments. That was the commitment. Then there was a supplementary protocol and it is a little interesting to hear what I will read to you: "In addition, an annex was signed on 15-2-2017, which stated that documents identified as classified as "confidential" or "confidential" in addition to those which had come to committee's knowledge and were discussed and which were the basis of the findings and which are here, are an integral part of the material, but for any use a common written licence or a directive of the two Presidents of Parliament is required for any use." On these documents, precisely because they have been characterised by the Ministry of National Defence, in the near future, in a reasonable period - perhaps two, three, four months - will be needed - because there are serious legal and international commitments on these issues, they are not just issues - access, so that a large part may be declassified. Some are not for declassification, let me have a point of view, but that's what we'll see. They are extra materials which will not be sent today, to the extent that they are not part of what the Committee of Inquiry has dealt with and established the findings. But it is here and in a responsible procedure and these are, as they are - and we have recognized - part of this whole material, some time next time they will be given, without burdening it with any faction of international relations or legal provisions. Thus, in the context of the work of the Committee established under the Cooperation Protocol, the material of the Cyprus Folder was found at various locations in the underground areas of the Parliament, collected, classified and stored in an appropriate place. The committee, moving forward to its work, found that the main body of material is the committee's minutes with the statements of all the protagonists of the 1974 tragedy. The statements shall refer to the testimony of each witness to the GSC and GFCM or the other authorities of the Armed Forces, while there are accompanying documents from bodies and institutions involved in such events. I have to say to you in public: it was found that the first eleven files were missing, that the main files in these questions were the minutes of the first 11 meetings of the Committee of Inquiry with witnesses. It was fortunately necessary to record the recorded material, i.e. the tapes recorded by the stenographers at the time of the meeting, and this was technically difficult after more than thirty years. However, the Minutes concerning these eleven basic testimonies may not be the exact ones, but they are based on the work done this year and a half. We didn't find out when, at which juncture, from whom, where and how these files were removed from the chambers of Parliament. In order to preserve the historical memory - I conclude, colleagues and colleagues - and the deferred fulfillment to the minimum of the moral, essential and historical obligation in the Republic of Cyprus has created an exact copy of the Cyprus file in order to be sent to the House of Representatives of the Republic of Cyprus. It is planned on Friday morning that a special procedure will be carried out in the House of Representatives in Cyprus, with the aim of having a curated version of the committee's practices within a reasonable period of time, i.e. with the responsibility of both the Cypriot and the Greek Parliaments in the coming months, which will also be opened to the general public, i.e. a valuable historical source, always in the context of the security, validity and scientific integrity offered by the validity of the two National Parliaments. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to invite you to vote in favour of this proposal, in the tactics followed by the President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u135	Ladies and gentlemen,...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u136	Madam President, I would like the floor for a clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u137	Here, Mr. Chiara, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u138	As the President of the New Democracy said, the New Democracy is positive on the President's proposal. I must, however, re-evaluate our commitment to time. We will be positive, therefore.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u139	Madam President, I too would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u140	Here, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u141	On the substance of the matter and the Prime Minister and almost all - I think - the parties have formulated Greece's firm position that the Cyprus issue is a question of invasion and occupation. Before that, however, a betrayal in phases, starting in November 1967, had taken place before those events of 1974, when the Greek division was withdrawn from Cyprus by decision of the then junta. The Committee of Inquiry into the opening-up of the Cyprus file was a request - I would remind the oldest - made by the late Andreas Papandreou as a central request in the 1981 elections. This was the case, with what the President of Parliament said in 1986, with the examination and the conclusion of 1988. Madam President, there has been a cooperation with the House of Representatives of Cyprus, which, if I remember well, has been going well since 2004. And the protocols were also signed. We are now called - if we have understood correctly - to approve the access or delivery of the material - not the minutes - of the committee of inquiry, whether that is accompanying material that was put forward there or I imagine the Minutes, with the difficulties that the President has mentioned. Obviously, we're in agreement. We have, moreover, supported Mr Voutsi's initiatives all this time. I wonder, Madam President, if a case of treason, which is crucially burdened by some, is supposed to be our compatriots of other times, the National Representation had to deal with today, which has been an attempt, with a successful outcome, to see the coincidence of our events not only at the National Foreign Policy Council, not only in the Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, but here in the House with the presence of all parties. I find the option unfortunate. In any case, however, we do not disagree.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u142	Thank you, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u143	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u144	You, Mr Michalolikako, have already placed yourself on this. Let us finish the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u145	I would like to state our view that it is right to give the House of Cyprus, but also to give the Greek Members, to be given to the Greek people. For forty-three years there has been a guilty silence on the betrayal of Cyprus, and it seems that not only are some soldiers involved in it, but also politicians.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u146	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, at this point I would very much ask you to approve the delivery of the materials submitted to the House relating to the 'Cyprus Office', which were studied and evaluated by the Committee of Inquiry between 1986 and October 1988, when the findings were made and discussed in the Greek Parliament in the context of the cooperation protocols, as well as in the annex, signed by the two Presidents of the Greek Parliament and by the House of Representatives of the Republic of Cyprus. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask those who accept the proposal very much to rise. [[Receiving the proposal]] It's obvious everyone's been raised. So Parliament unanimously approved the proposal, which has been tabled in the Minutes of today's sitting. [[Applause]] I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to confirm the minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u147	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-11-S1-commons.u148	With the consent of the House at 14.53p.m. the sitting is closed next Thursday, July 13, 2017 at 9.30 p.m., on the subject of this House's work: a) parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate and b) legislative work, in accordance with the agenda to be distributed.
