ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights: "Legal recognition of the gender identity - National Mechanism for the Training, Monitoring and Evaluation of Action Plans for the Rights of the Child and other provisions". As you may know, the Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 4 October 2017 to discuss the draft law in two meetings and a uniform principle on articles and amendments. The proposal I am proposing to you is to start with the two rapporteurs, where during their speeches the electronic system will be opened to register as many colleagues as possible at the end of the registration, after we see how many colleagues will be enrolled, then to discuss what time we will be finishing tonight. It goes without saying that if there are many colleagues, we will be going late. If they are fewer colleagues, we will be finished a little earlier, since tomorrow we shall start at 9 a.m. Tomorrow, however, we have a final time, about 13.00' -13.30', because a number of ministers, due to service needs, will go abroad and others will leave Greece, but not Athens. That is therefore the context of the debate. Is there any objection to this?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u2	Is it a single one?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u3	Yes, at the outset and the articles. It's unified. As you will be aware, six ministerial amendments were tabled. And a seventh, which is now being prepared, photographed and distributed to you to have it in front of you. Many of them are from the Ministry of Finance. As I have been informed, Mrs Papanatsiou will eventually come and present these amendments. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u4	So the House unanimously agreed to the proposal I made. Now I am told that the Golden Dawn Party objected to anti-constitutionality. I would like to ask you, in order to see and schedule the time of the end today - as you know, the objection of unconstitutionalism can be discussed at any time - to speak to the first two rapporteurs-general, so that we can have the image of the speakers and then that your objections can be raised, either in between with the special speakers or immediately afterwards, if you wish, the conclusion of the speaker's speech. But let us start with the two general rapporteurs and ask you later. The floor is for 15 minutes, the SYRIZA rapporteur, Annetta Kavadia. You can register, ladies and gentlemen. Here, Mrs. Cabadia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today is a special day. Separate because we have made a commitment to that category of fellow citizens, who have for years been subject to a brutal abuse only because they have chosen to be themselves. We are bringing to plenary a draft law which, on the one hand, makes it easier to correct the registered gender of transgender people, based on the right to self-determination, on the other hand, establishing a National Mechanism for the Training, Monitoring and Evaluation of Child Rights Action Plans. This is an important and much-expected piece of legislation, which, by its first seven articles, comes to cure violations of fundamental rights and to limit intolerance, discrimination and violence against the LGBTK community, whose members, as we know, have been persistently claiming respect for the state for many years, of the individual will for prison. On the occasion of this bill, ladies and gentlemen, we have heard and listened to a lot. From sincere concerns and questions to vulgar comments that touch the threat line and a highly malicious reason. Can we, ladies and gentlemen, agree that rights were never a matter of majority and minority? In this light, the simplification of procedures that will lead to a portion of our fellow citizens, however small it is, to experience their everyday lives in the way they choose, without becoming the subject of a scoundrel and without even suffering the psychological violence to which they have been subjected for years, should be welcomed by everyone. Sadly, however, once again, we see the repetition of a misdemeanor. On the one hand, verbal crowns, dangers, vulnerability, subjugation of conservative social reflexes, and on the other hand, "lacard" sensitivity in the protection of basic human rights. But I will come back to this later. So we have here a commonly professedly vulnerable, exposed to social exclusion and prejudice for the population, whose rights the state must defend and promote. Just what is aimed at in his first seven articles today's bill to be discussed, making transgender people visible, facilitating their access to the labour market, health care, insurance cover and benefits. The next five articles of the draft law lay the foundations for better central planning and coordination of the relevant Ministries and services in relation to the rights of the child, a permanent request also by all those involved in childhood, service actors, social scientists, teachers, activists of the children's Counselor, the National Commission on Human Rights, as well as the obligation of the country, as shown by the final observations made to Greece by the United Nations Commission on 15 June 2012. This coordination has not been satisfactory over the past few years, as we would all like to see. It has been fragmented, without the necessary broadliness and commitment required on such a serious issue, with the result that we are falling short of the results we are seeking. We therefore come to establish a national mechanism to which ten Ministries will participate on a permanent basis, a mechanism that will draw up action plans in line with the recommendations of national and international institutions for the protection of human rights and the child. So we capture the Greek state's essential commitment to form effective policies. Ladies and gentlemen, before I refer to the bill more specifically, I would like to begin with a more general worthy position: Rights to the Left have never been an abstract, a neutral concept. Their defence and enlargement are essential to the democratisation of society. The term 'personal rights' does not, of course, entail exercising them according to each other's individual capabilities. On the other hand, individual rights mean the right to which everyone must have access, irrespective of their economic or cultural situation, gender, religion, sexual choices, ethnic origin. Using the term 'individual', we demand and demand, as left-wing and left-wing universal access for all to these rights, which in order to achieve this is necessary to support the exercise of rights by social structures. It requires regulation on the part of the State, regulations according to the principle of equal treatment. By promoting the equal exercise of individual rights, we are furthering a society with less discrimination. By eliminating inequalities against some, we look forward to their final elimination for all, that is to say, moving in the reverse direction of what neoliberalism and the Chief of Officerial Opposition, who supports inequality as normal. The exercise of rights, their defence for all, and not for a few privileged people, is for the Left tool of social transformation that we believe we need as a country, because we, ladies and gentlemen, do not accept that it is possible for social groups to be lower in rights. We do not accept second-class citizens. We recognize and respect the different. I repeat: we respect, not just we tolerate the different. However, the different is equal to our social view, without exceptions and without asterisks. In both years of governance, the government has taken important legislative initiatives at the judiciary. For example, we extended the cohabitation pact, brought Law 4443/2016 on equal treatment, voted for social solidarity income, gave citizenship to the second generation refugees who graduated from the Greek educational system, legislated for the decongestion of prisons, abolished Type III prisons. So today's bill is another key step to complement the necessary integrated framework for non-discrimination, a step towards institutional recognition of personal choices, which so far have been in a grey zone of refusal on the part of the state, contrary to the principles of equality, the free development of personality and respect for subsidiarity. In the last two weeks there has been an extremely thorough debate on the bill both between the parties and with the actors. The New Democracy, as well as the Democratic Participation initially, in their attempt to create a political problem with the government, they told us that they would not vote for the bill, confronting transgender people as instruments for their political pursuits and not as equal members of society. It was an impressive move of cynicism, an impressive contempt for Parliament's role, and a little while after Mr Mitsotakis, the Chief of Officer of Anti-Population, had been photographed with the members of the LGBTKI community, a photography and a meeting of clear communication targeting, as evidenced by fact. After the clear position of the Independent Greeks that they are voting for the bill at first, the Democratic Reconciliation said that it also votes at first. We expect with interest to see the follow-up. As for the New Democracy, since it was also forced to fold, we have been talking about a proposal of its own. We expect to see, ladies and gentlemen of the Officer's Representation, this proposal and how it reconciles moderate views within your party's line with the extreme, conservative and homophobic statements of precarious members of your party. [[Noise - protests from the New Democracy Wing]] Don't interrupt. The question, of course, arises is why so many years the New Democracy has not legislated in this regard. I do not have much to say about the attitude of the Central Group. The raw admission of Mr. Leventis, his need for votes by other political tanks, was demonstrated by the organized press release of the Association for Interracial Support to remind him of his different attitude throughout the last time and his personal signature as a commitment at the ILGA-Europe conference in Athens in 2015 on the right to self-determination of transgenders, not to mention the presence of MPs of his party in events of the LGBTK community, where they confirmed to support the Association of Centrals in their requests. And we come to the stand of the Communist Party of Greece, which until now at least insists on voting against the bill by talking about supposedly subjectiveism in confrontation with the scientificism that the party declares as well as a so-called complex social issue that requires expert advice. Is it possible, ladies and gentlemen of the Communist Party of Greece, that the question of the personal sensation of the body concerns a scientist rather than a person himself and how he experiences his reality? The fact that your party's views are contrary to all the collectives of the LGBTKI community, does not concern More than one? You'll tell me now that if reality doesn't agree with us, the worse for reality. Of course, there have also been voices outside Parliament saying that they do not understand the necessity of the bill. Some even consider it dangerous to the family’s institution and proper customs. Some of these voices come from aspects that often invoke tolerance and love as an integral part of the sacred word. To these aspects, I would just like to remind you that the same excessive objections had been formulated with appropriate rigour when political marriage and the cohabitation agreement were legislated. The course of things has shown that these dangers are inconsistent with the truth. Political marriage now counts almost thirty years of existence. Family institutions and customs have not been affected. The genuine, but also the fascist fears of our fellow citizens have proved and will prove to be unfounded again. Ladies and gentlemen, let us acknowledge this: the controversy which has been under way these days is not just about the ideological differences between the political forces of the country. It's a confrontation between modern perceptions and darkness, between future and past. It is a battle - because, unfortunately, it is a fight - which is self-evident: total respect for everything that has to do with human rights. To enable people to come out of the darkness in light, to become visible, to have access to the labour market, to travel, to process their everyday lives by the name they want and to respond to what they feel, cannot and must not be negotiable. Isn't that enough of the abuse they've suffered all these years? So in line with international reality, the current bill, in compliance with the constitutional principle of protecting the free development of personality, seeks to ensure more favourable and simpler procedures for the recognition of gender, by promoting the right of self-determination, by removing the requirement for surgical gender change. Similarly, the condition of a medical treatment related to physical or mental health is removed, as it is recognised that personal body sensation and other gender expressions are always freely chosen by the person itself and are in no way mandatory. Over the last few days we have heard and read an extensive case for people seeking to get rid of financial debts - which is clear that it cannot be done, since it is enough to read Article 5, where, for example, AMCA and AMM - or for people who want to be made of athletes, athletes or avoid militia or want to visit Mount Athos. We are talking about cases which lead, ladies and gentlemen, logic to its extremes. Let's repeat, then. International figures show that only 0.001% of citizens abroad make use of gender correction legislation. So fears of abuse do not actually respond to Greek. No one will go to the judge to change his registered sex in order to go to Mount Mount Athos or not to be a veil. There are, you know, many other ways to avoid militarisation and such conversations are beyond and outside of all logic. Let us see what the bill provides for in terms of the age limit for gender transition, which so much dust has lifted and so many outrageous publications has inspired. It therefore provides that it will be able to start from the fifteenth, including the sixteenth, under the conditions of the law plus another. The additional condition for the under-seven - which should exist and be put in the judge's judge's judge's judgeship, of course, apart from the parent's agreement - will be an interdisciplinary opinion by a particular public hospital. We are talking about teenagers, ladies and gentlemen, who, as a rule, have unacceptable conditions in the school environment, are malicious and cruel treatment. Unfortunately, the misinformation has also prevailed in the public debate and there has been a risk of completely inaccurate risk. That supposedly a teenager can go to correct his gender without preconditions, and the exact opposite is true. Believe me, he won't wake up one morning a 15-year-old man and instead of going to school he'll go to Hope to change his sex. We are talking about specific cases of children, families experiencing this bowling and their families. We are talking about parents - and we have had the opportunity to hear a representative of these parents - who are experiencing this tragedy. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] I'm gonna need a minute, Mr. President. Because of the specificity of teen psychology, the preconditions of the legislature are much stricter than those of the over seventeen. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not claim that the law solves all the issues of transgender people. There's too much to do. However, as we said in December when we were voting on the extension of the cohabitation agreement to the same sexes, we have committed ourselves to the following steps: marriage, childcare - but also to light - with the ultimate aim of equal participation of everyone and everyone in the full range of social rights. Ladies and gentlemen, in voting for this bill, we will demonstrate the need to raise awareness, familiarity and respect for the rights of transgenders, a particularly vulnerable to social exclusion and the prejudice of a population group. Tomorrow afternoon we will have won a major victory against discrimination based on sex, appearance, sexual behavior, and against all forms of marginalization. But we will not just have taken a political initiative at an accidental time. We will have stressed our overall determination to have second-class citizens of any kind. I would like to close my position, ladies and gentlemen, with a very short story that I saw published last night on the Internet, and also namefully. It's the story of a father who writes his name and says: "I know a story. A story about a child born a boy. It grew as the rules of society were defined. From quite early he understood a great and very difficult truth: he doesn't feel a boy. And he hid it from his family, his surroundings, the whole society. He accepted the mocking and the unattractive bowling at school and outside, on the ride, on the fun, at the parties. Until he went to college and there he felt that he could now express himself, as his mind defines: consciously. Because he felt like a woman, no inhibitions, no guilt. And now he now defines himself and is called such a thing. The university's finished in four years, and with a very good degree. In the oath, the address was made, in honor of those responsible, under the new name, even though the old degree is mentioned. However, the difficulties are too many. Even a postgraduate very difficult is going to be able to take it with that name on the degree. And he doesn't want to take it with that name. The professional restoration? Very difficult. The doors are not easy to open and the eyes are very exploring for this noble name and now" - the father continues - "the gender identity bill comes in, her chance to get, finally, officially the name she wants and that fits what she brings within it. Along with the identity will also get the passport to go to society without explanation."
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u6	Mrs. Cavadia, you need to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u7	I shall conclude, Mr President. "But society has its own view, either from total ignorance or from evil, even from hatred to different. For she is another child, not anyone who lets his bile be diffused indiscriminately." And the shocking that this father writes is the revelation - he says - that this is his child. He says "I'm proud of it, because all these years he had the power to overcome the racism that suffered either verbally or physically more I know I have two daughters, clearly. He has total support for the family, without embarrassment and empathy, because he is quite simply our child. And you know what? It could be the child of everyone and our debt as parents toward our children is to support them in their choices, especially in difficult choices, and now there's no reason to confide in the few who might understand. It's a shame she had to hide, even from us, all that she was going through. Think well" - this father concludes - "the next time you condemn something...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u8	Mrs. Cabadia, please, get it over with!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u9	I shall conclude, Mr President, with the father's own postgraduate in this experiential narrative. "I would prefer" - writes - "do not comment, but just think." Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, forty-three students and students and three teachers - attending them from the New Artakis High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The rapporteur-General of the New Democracy Mr Nikolaos Panagiotopoulos has the floor. Here you go, Mr. Panayotopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, if we want to have this debate in the right way - and I think it is worth doing so in the right way - we must do so in terms of sobering and seriousness. We must not, for example, discuss this bill in the light of the major problems with regard to the governance of the country that are accumulated and quickly turned into deadlocks, while you, ladies and gentlemen of the government majority, claim that everything is going well. "The bill shows that the government can manage the memorandum while leaving a progressive footprint," the Minister of Finance Euclid Tsakalotos wrote in his article yesterday. For me, it's out of the question. Nor should we discuss the so-called 'left agenda', which in one version disorientates public opinion from the burning problems, turning the public debate elsewhere, the games that the Archbishop spoke about the other day, while another version keeps Members satisfied - rather than everyone - on the pretext that progressive interventions are taking place on social issues, despite the fact that the government's performance on social issues is not the best one. And it certainly has nothing to do with today's debate on the lies, behaviors and tactics of the Minister of Defence, Mr Panos Kammenos, who is today in Brazil - if there could be a visit to the Earth of Fire, I imagine he would go there, as far as possible - and how we in the New Democracy identify our position with regard to the parliamentary manoeuvres of ANELs. Of course, the question of non-confidentiality within the government majority is as well as of making it a serious issue, because the coherence of the government's majority is under the cult and the ability of that government to govern in the end. We had serious doubts about the government’s ability to rule, now there are also doubts as to its ability to rule. The political problem, Madam rapporteur of the majority, is therefore your internal issue. But today's debate is about substance, and that is exactly where we focus on shaping our position. The bill under discussion is an attempt, incomplete and problematic, of the government to legislate in the sphere of human rights, and in particular by attempting to ensure the right to free development of personality and self-determination of transgenders. By definition, we are open to any such debate. After all, we have already started it with the people concerned in the New Democracy. By definition, every debate, every struggle and every claim on human rights concerns social minorities and not major ones. Social minorities have always been treated frequently in terms of prejudice or even fear, resulting in stigmatisation, social exclusion, and even abuses against them. By definition, it is the duty of the favoured democratic state to better regulate these social realities, so that the delicate balance between the enjoyment of individual rights and the safeguarding of the public interest, the exercise of the freedom of individual will, on the one hand, and the avoidance of abuse of behaviour by incomplete freedom on the other. How's that all going on? Answer: by establishing by the favoured democratic state the exercise of specific conditions, rules and conditions for exercising and enjoying individual rights in the legal order, and by assisting in particular in matters of complex, sensitive and demanding scientific knowledge, such as the subject matter. I am presenting to the Practical yesterday's article of three specialist and prominent members of the medical community, which lists the concerns of experts, which were not taken into account by the Government in terms of the state of gender discomfort.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u12	Who are they?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u13	It's a relevant article yesterday's paper. You can look back. You will understand that from the development of our proposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u14	He'll be filed in the Minutes. Whoever wants it, he'll pick it up soon.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u15	You come and legislate on the issue of the legal recognition of gender, in order to ensure the right of people who experience the situation of discomfort or other non-conformity of sex, that is, of transgender, self-determination, that is to say, to correct the redefinition of their biological sex, that is, the characteristics of the body - in other words, a registered sex, as is in the explanatory statement - so that it eventually coincides with their psychological sex, that is, according to scientific or medical terminology, what they feel is, male or female. You do this by setting a basic and dominating condition, the will of the individual, Article 3 of the bill and some other secondary conditions, but other important conditions, i.e. judicial decision, singleness, without prerequisites for surgery and medical opinion, the possibility to correct gender from the age of 15, with medical advice and consent of parents, the possibility of correcting from seventeen years and more freely. That's what you come and legislate. Yes, sir. Beforehand, I say to you that we have basic and decisive objections to all the conditions you set out. I will say more for sure and tomorrow in the special debate on the articles. But first I ask the main question: What was the need to bring this bill? What's the void you're coming to cover? What is the logic of the legislation, according to the law, of the ratio? In order to find the answer, let us see exactly what applies to the national legal order, on the one hand, and, of course, to the case law of the European Court of Human Rights. In the Greek legal system, the long-term recognition of the acquired sex has always been the case. The correction, or the re-definition of gender, is made through the crucial element of the relevant registration act, by virtue of course of a judicial decision, Article 13 of Law 344/1976 on the Government of Constantine Karamanlis - to a progressive initiative several times earlier - and, of course, Article 14 of Law 2503/1997, which provides that the corrigendum is registered in the same order of administration in its own body so that legal certainty exists. The court confirms the redefinition of the gender by correcting the registration act and not by drawing up a new act, as you propose at the present time. This is of particular legal importance, because, on the one hand, correction is of a retrospective nature and, on the other, the inalienable and continuity of the personal situation is guaranteed. That is to say, legal certainty is achieved with what has been the case so far. I would remind you of the recent decisions of the Athens Peace Court, numbers 418/2016 and 1572/2016, which have judged, among other things, that surgical action on gender change should not be a prerequisite for the legal recognition of the applicant's desired gender - we will agree - and therefore the concept of legal recognition of gender identity is well known in the Greek legal order and case law, which the Greek courts have dealt with in a quiet and effective manner. Furthermore, the need for a redefinition of gender is always called for and taken into account by the courts as a fundamental prerequisite for a medical opinion demonstrating this situation, which is what we call the 'persistent gender discomfort' of the applicants. In doing so, the judge shall take into account the critical evidence of medical advice or a psychiatric examination in order to make a substantial judgement. This applies to thirty-six of forty one European Union countries. You are currently coming and turning the judge away from the prerequisite for the opinion into an administrative body, since he simply accepts the applicant's will. It's wrong and we disagree with that. At the level of the European Court of Human Rights, two are the important decisions. The first is the Goodwin v United Kingdom of 2002, in which the court found that the absence of a legal recognition of sex of a trans-national person constitutes an infringement of Article 8 of the ECHR, the European Convention on Human Rights, on the right to respect for private and family life. In line with this decision, the United Kingdom adopted in 2004 the Gender Recognition Act, which includes a provision to exclude gender recognition for transgender sports clubs for reasons of legal certainty and risk and abuse of the right that the British have anticipated, but you are currently not anticipated. The second and most important of our debate is that of the European Court of Human Rights on 6 April 2017 in the Garçon and Nicot v France case. It would be worth it to all of us to study it. Among other things, the court found that gender discomfort was a medical matter, as it is part of the relevant category of the International Statistical Classification of Diseases and related health problems of the World Health Organisation. That's the scientific point of view we've been talking about. By the way, I would remind you that the American transgender activists considered the right of their struggles to be the fact that gender-kind discomfort was described as a medical situation, a medical condition, in 2012, and celebrated that. Furthermore, the European Court of Justice held that the requirement for surgical intervention in order to legally recognise the gender identity is in breach of the provisions of the European Convention on Human Rights, the right to respect for privacy, etc. However - and here is the crucial - the Court itself has accepted as legal the condition of a medical diagnosis of a gender discomfort syndrome, because, as it has seen, the principle of non-existence of the personal situation is maintained, the guarantee of public faith, the coherence of the civil and executive situation and ultimately legal certainty, while at the same time respecting the right to respect for the private life of the European Convention on Human Rights. It was, in other words, considered that the medical opinion of a gender discomfort syndrome and even irreversible character is no doubt a social stigmatisation, but it is the guarantee that people will not change their gender wrongly. Therefore, it is easy to see from this brief overview that the case law of Greek justice is in line with the case law of the European Court of Human Rights and ensures that the legal recognition procedure of sex is sufficiently effective, without needing additional intervention. However, our main objection to the present considerations is precisely on the basis of this important decision of the European Court of Justice. We believe that a comprehensive and scientifically documented process of gender redefinition should include as a basic condition of crisis and evidence a comprehensive crisis and opinion by specialist doctors or psychologists, so that this particular situation that we identify as the applicant's persistent gender discomfort, can be diagnosed and documented and thus demonstrated in the correction of transgenders. The process is very important for his life, so that he can simply rely on a declaration of will, with its flaws, for example, errors, especially in young people and the possibility of a future change of opinion. With this in mind, the draft - a proposal for a law that we process and submit to the consultation sets out a comprehensive and secure procedure for the legal recognition of gender, which is based on specific and clear conditions. Judicial decision, yes. Medical or special scientific advice, diagnosing the conscientious choice of the person who perceives the situation as gender discomfort. Crisis only once, without any change of heart. Two stages of examination in the court in a short time, in order to achieve the relative speed of the proceedings until the final decision is taken. The age limit for eighteen years is the year that, according to the law, the person is under age. I am tabling our proposal and putting it from now on into public consultation. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Panagiotopoulos, presents for the minutes the above proposal, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So, in order to answer the original question of the logic and feasibility of your legislative initiative, I say that the Greek courts and existing national laws have adequately dealt with the issue, without the progressive noise you are causing. With the simplified, fast, non-costsome procedure, as you say, without prerequisites, without psychiatric examination, which you are trying to legislate, you simply close your eyes to a category of people who feel ill and unprotected, but without offering them any real protection, because substantial protection, ladies and gentlemen, is not the decision in itself. Substantial protection arises or does not arise from that. But among other things, you do not offer legal certainty against possible abuses or fraudulent behaviours that could arise, since the process you enter depends on a mere declaration of will. We heard the reservations of the Society of Family Law in the committee. In a country where the sanctity of marriage and marriage are being destroyed by virtual divorces - these are not being done in Denmark, in Greece - for reasons of tax relief, it is unlikely that there will be an abuse of a single-declaration gender correction procedure, especially when it is provided for here and the possibility of changing the opinion and returning to the original sex. I'll see you in detail tomorrow in the articles. Today, just in the morning, a fellow lawyer called me to tell me about a client's question, who asked him whether a gender correction with a statement could mean that he could be exempted from paying the food to the wife. It's done, and I'm filing it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u16	What are these now?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u17	You got it! It happened, and I'm very afraid it'll happen again.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u18	Are these serious things?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u19	You know everything. We know that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u20	SYRIZA colleagues to be quiet, please. Mr. Panayotopoulos, don't answer. Keep going and close.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u21	I'm not sure that's the last thing I'd say, but I don't think it's gonna be the last one. This, not only is at the expense of the case of their transnational and rights, but it demonstrates the shortcomings, the sloppyness and the inadequacy with which you legislate. But you're doing something worse. In the name of protecting human rights, in the name of supposedly progressiveity, you are making a dangerous ideological liquidation of the human races, with consequences uncertain and incalculable for both the family and the parental standards and for the rights of the child, who paradoxically come to regulate in the second part of the bill with the National Mechanism for Evaluation of the Child's Rights Action Plan. I have to say that there has been this action plan of the General Secretariat of Transparency and Human Rights since November 2014. I'll tell you more about it tomorrow. This could therefore result in fatal damage to the country's social fabric. For this reason in particular, and also for the whole spirit of the legislation, which is based on the individual statement without scientific diagnosis, Article 3, that is, we cannot accept your bill. And that is not a liberal retreat, but a responsible attitude. We have tabled our essential, overall and responsible proposal and have laid down real conditions for a secure, sound and effective correction procedure, with respect for the individual right, but also for legal certainty. You, ladies and gentlemen of the government, perhaps because you have a natural abstraction in any sense of rules, terms or conditions, have made legislation predatoryly and incorrectly, and that is why we must vote against at first instance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u22	Because I have heard Mr Panayotopoulos say 'We will talk about the articles in greater detail tomorrow', I would remind you that the debate is uniform, in principle and in the articles. Of course, the rapporteurs and the special speakers, if there is time, will be given a little time for secondary periods, so they will also speak about this particular article. However, there is no wrong impression that tomorrow we are talking about the articles and today at the outset. It is a single debate. We are moving on with the special speaker of the Democratic Partnership, Mr Constantine Barriota.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u23	Mr President, when will the objection of unconstitutionality be discussed?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u24	I have consulted the Golden Dawn Parliamentary Spokesman, Mr Rabbit, and all speakers have agreed to speak and then the objection of unconstitutionality will be discussed. On the basis of Rule 100, the Bureau may place it at any time after consultation. So it will be discussed after the speakers. Mr Barriotta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr President. We are discussing today a human rights bill, which is actually about harmonising Greek legislation, about developments in the European area and also in the country, about harmonisation with European directives, with decisions by the Special Court of Human Rights, but also with recent decisions by Greek justice, which set a new framework in relation to gender identity and the possibility of gender correction in people who have such a choice. In other words, it concerns the right to self-determination of transgenders, the right to selfdetermination for all citizens of a favoured country, whether religious, national or sexual. The right to self-determination and self-determination is what we are discussing today. The bill is neither revolutionary nor does it bring about a huge change. In fact, it recognises a gap and regulates a reality that we all know and live. There are people in society who are in disharmony with their sex who want to change or many times, even when it was not possible to change the sex, who lived with behavior and tactics, which challenged their biological gender, so that they are victims of racism and violence and exclusion. So we are essentially discussing the regulation of an issue, which was opened for the first time since 1997 by the PASOK Government at the time, with an amendment, which simply added two words to a 1976 law, which contained nothing about transgenders and gender change. It opened in 1997 and evolved in a situation which is neither regulated nor clear is its environment, the way of change. To take a step back to the political issue, today we are discussing this bill in an unprecedented tension, which, in my opinion, should not even exist. As soon as the New Democracy introduced the so-called ‘strong method through the counterproposal’. It is a retreat from her positions, because of the pressure she had inside and which she felt from her environment. But, on the other hand, I think that the way in which this bill is being discussed and the intensity with which we have come to discuss is a great burden on the way in which the SYRIZA Government and, in particular, SYRIZA within the government is handling and using human rights and bills from the beginning of this parliamentary term. What he's actually doing has a very specific tactic. Every time the agenda or debate needs to be changed, bills that well or badly touch social sensitivities and prejudices enter the plenary to discuss, as a result of the inevitable noise, the helmet - if you like - which rises to become a communication weapon in the hands of SYRIZA within the Government, I repeat. So, then, we've seen this several times. We have also seen it with citizenship, with the cohabitation pact that has been stuck in the Memorandum cheques. Every time it begins to appear strongly what the government, which is essentially an ideological and political one - let me express - a skeptical one, is a political one, a left-wing syndrome of different, devious real trends and ideologies, within the SYRIZA, an effort is being made to do what we say 'a left relant', a 'left window' which may erase the earlier ones. After seeing Mr Kammenos's full coverage of his contacts with the underworld and his achievements in the foreign world, since the SYRIZA Members repeatedly applaud what is called the Minister of National Defence's attitude, without any controversy, we are now coming to do what we call the 'left relans', to say something that is - and well - progressive. And since we are suddenly remembering, we are actually doing what I said at the beginning, we are introducing a self-evident bill in principle at least so that we have an evasion. The scenario is true that it worked very well in the previous cases, in the previous bills, mainly because by devising the parties in the democratic area - Potami, PASOK - they supported legislative initiatives relating to human rights, contrary to the over-conservative and open reaction, in terms of social rights, a partner of the SYRIZA to the government, the ANELs. So the attitude of the Democratic Partnership is as follows: it said at the outset that the government has no other alibi, that if it does not seek consensus within it, it cannot come out - as a two-faced person - on pension cuts, wages, economic advantages and so on. We're positive to the bill. We've been positive all along. We are positive in principle. But SYRIZA, from now on, must seek within him first the consents he needs. It must be clear that the political signal of this government is not one and the other, but it is the product, the composition of the two parties, their politics, their ideology and their attitude. That's the only way it can work. For a political area like the one I am expressing and on whose behalf I speak, the human rights accusations are not in place. I would remind you that this is the political area, the fact that it began with the decriminalisation of adultery, when it once received the government, to go through establishing political marriage, to guarantee equal rights. I would remind you that this is an area when it was necessary, as it was necessary to remove the religion from the identities, it colluded with the superconservatives and inside and outside the Church. He had a tactic, which still remains to be seen from SYRIZA, who has not been used to us in such clashes. We'll see. The state has an obligation to ensure that the rights of all citizens are protected. As I referred to the Church, her view and the directive and the blessing she might want to grant to her faithful ones is absolutely respected. But the state has an obligation to cover, legislate for all citizens, regardless of religion, political position, national self-determination or sexual preference. So it is our duty to monitor developments, to modernise and improve the legal framework of the country where it needs, as is necessary in this case. In a mature democratic environment, this is not done by conflicting tactics or by pursuing conflicts. They are looking for the road which does not jeopardise the cohesion of society and guarantees - if you like - that type of reform, their functioning and their incorporation. It simply needs Greek, attention, seriousness and steps such as can be accepted by the large majority of society if we want to see it move in a positive direction. Everyone is judged by their attitude here and in society, even the hidden ones - here I have to say this too - who think that coming out of the cedar can get away with and pass abundant drinks. All these reactions which I have said before, which are in favour of the appropriateness, I think that they are greatly enhanced by the other attitude of the small partner of the government, its conservative part, namely the ANELs. The way in which this whole system of social bills manages uncertainties, makes it feel that the government is incapable of discussing and passing or, if you like, of imposing such legislation, so that the reactions are risen or intensified. Some people are just homophobic. It's their right. Some are victims of misinformation. Many in this bill are, unfortunately, victims of misinformation. The bill regulates specific rights of people who exist, live next to us and usually live on the limits of society, with the responsibility of all the others. We have a duty to recognise them the rights they have. But some, unfortunately, are consciously in favour of uniformity. Some dream of fellowships. Put whatever color you want, red, gray, black, it doesn't matter. Some dream of societies - 'gason', in which everything that stands out and goes away.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u26	We're talking about equality.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u27	I'm not talking about you. However, homogeneity and the leveling of the various shades do not match democracy. The right to autonomy and self-determination of the individual is based on the perception of urban, western democracy, if you like, and with it we must go. Disconnection of gender correction from medical acts and assurances for adults is necessary. I think it is something that only those who ask for pretexts do so need to be analysed in particular. It is also necessary to clarify the legal procedure. We have made proposals and contributed to this. It is also necessary to simplify the procedure. I think that things could be better here, but I think, as I have said before, that steps must be careful. Unfortunately, the judiciary is delaying and the bureaucracy of the Greek public is great, and that applies to everyone and not just to transgender people. I think we can at some point reconvene the procedure and the problems that might arise in the future. We know that the LGBT community and the representatives of the transgenders only partially feel justified. The truth is that there are a number of issues such as singleness, gender recognition before the fifteen and judiciary issues. These are issues that could be discussed, there are objections to that. However, we must admit that the bill opens and regulates - in the way it regulates, with the weaknesses it regulates - an issue that had not even been discussed in Greece in previous years. I think that at this level the debate should be open and we should all be open to the debate on further improvements. I think that the President will also give us the right tomorrow to put us on any improvement, change or amendment that arises on any subject that may still be discussed. I, too, reserve proposals or amendments within the day. I think, therefore, that it is a question that in principle has the agreement and approval of all the progressive citizens of the country, of all the citizens who are aware of the need to recognise the rights of minorities, the exceptions, of all the citizens of the country. In this respect we are positive. It would, of course, be much better if this type of intervention in human rights were not done in the way I said as communication - let me express the expression - grenades on the part of the government, one in September and the other in September after two years and, in any case, stuck with a slightly problematic political period, such as the evaluation that comes. It would be better to be the product of a wider debate and convergence of all the progressive parties. Unfortunately, however, the government has never sought it or is in a position to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u28	Thank you too, Mr Barriotta, for the time economy. We proceed with the special speaker of the Golden Dawn, Mr. Evangelos Karakostas. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u29	Thank you. One would expect the government of a people who are deeply affected by the economic recession to work with zeal and due attention, if not for the resolution, at least for the relief of the Greek people from their serious problems. With almost 40% of Greek households, however, to deal with poverty and social exclusion, with the unemployed to exceed one and a half million, the Tsipras - Kammenos Government is consciously opting to focus its interest in voting for legislative aberrations, which are directed directly against the Greek society and its most important cell, the Greek family and are directed against the religious faith of the vast majority of Greeks and thus against the nation itself. As was the case in the recent past with the government and the parties of the so-called democratic arch of the building of a mosque in the Botanic and the coexistence pact, it is clear and clear that the government does not serve the Greeks and Greeks, but foreign centres of power, which seek to fragment the Greek society, in essence, with a view to its total control and manipulation. I must point out here the strong opposition of the Holy Synod of the Church of Greece to the draft legislation in question, which was expressed through the encouragement of the Church to withdraw the bill for a number of reasons which it quotes and explains. Completely the indifference and contempt of the Tsipra - Kammenos Government, a government which is rushing to legislate when required by foreign centres of power, when required by representatives of hip minority groups or when required by representatives of illegal immigrants. Should the Church of Greece become a non-governmental organization to take it seriously into account? So do not the government speak of respect and dialogue, of not talking about minority rights, because it is the one that refuses dialogue, of refusing respect for the rights of the vast majority of our people, who, however angry you, remains Greek and Orthodox Christian. The bill under discussion - an abortion provides for the possibility of changing the registered sexual sex of a person. It is therefore foreseen that, by virtue of the arguments of respect for and protection of human rights, transgender people will be able to make a simple request to the local court of pacifism, in which they will declare the chosen main name and the desired gender, in conjunction with the secrecy of the whole procedure, to change their basic racial identification. In simple terms, a person who was born male will be able to be registered in the registers and in all administrative authorities as a female and vice versa. We recall that Article 4 of the Constitution states the principle of equality and refers to Greeks and Greeks. The principle of gender discrimination, male and female, which are the cornerstone of a healthy social organisation, is therefore presupposed. Luke, for example, will go to the peace court, declare Lucia, and that for the government is completely normal, for Luke’s right to become Luke is being protected. And if after tomorrow Luke doesn't feel Lucia, but he thinks he's a carpet turtle - carpet what about it? Will the government legislate to protect Luke's right to feel carpet turtle - carpet? The contents of the draft law show the intention of the legislator to facilitate so-called 'dimensional' individuals, who, as you state in the explanatory statement, suffer from the very newly codified disease, so-called 'gene'. Luke therefore, for example, also has a low minority with Luke’s characteristics suffering from gender discomfort, and so the government on this pretext rushes to legislate Luke’s right to change his gender identity. I said this at the first meeting of the committee responsible, and I repeat here: there are hundreds of thousands of citizens who have voted for SYRIZA in the last elections and who are now suffering from 'defense of vote'. Don't they have rights? Why does the government not protect them by legislating to rush into the local court of peace or election, or wherever you want them to change their vote? Of course, the question is rhetorical, as changing the vote is not normal, but changing the gender is normal, according to the government and the parties of supposedly progression. But also by taking the courage from the broad party acceptance of this legislative abomination, except for the Golden Dawn, the government has also changed the age limit from which one can move on to gender change. The seventeen years were fifteen. What's more normal than that? At fifteen or no one has the right to vote, they cannot get a driving licence, but they will have the right to change their gender identity. This is, of course, no joke at all. Suffice it to remind those who underestimate an event that has taken place recently, in the last year, and which has caused the public feeling and a multitude of reactions from parents: I am referring to the Transport Week, which has been held in the schools of the country under the auspices of the Ministry of Education. I would point out this example to show how easy it is through the bombardment of propaganda to influence small Greeks from those who work methodically and systematically for the destruction of the Greek family and society. During the debate on the legislative abstention in the committee responsible, I also referred to positions which were made at a scientific conference held on Sunday 28 May 2017 at the Amphitheatre of the Athens War Museum on the subject of "Gender Identity, an Interdisciplinary Approach". The rapporteur of the government majority in the familiar practice of the internationalist Left had no objection to the positions expressed but described them as "false scientific" and "recruitment". That is why I think it is appropriate to reiterate the most important points of evidence from scientists, who of course have nothing to do with the Golden Dawn, such as Stavros Balogonnis, Professor of Neurology, Mrs Kallipe Prokokaki, psychiatrist of children and adolescents, Mrs Pantelidou, Professor of Law, Mr Apostolos Nikolaidis, Questor of the National and Kapodistrian University of Athens, who of course do not have the scientific displacement and scope of the SYRIZA rapporteur, but nonetheless testify with their views, which is of course contrary to what the Stalinic junta - ANLE. The peer professor of Neurology of the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki stressed how the characteristics of a person's gender are pre-registered, beyond the genome, in the brain, that there are indeed many differences between the sexes, but the most important difference, which starts from the endometrial life, since the organogenesis of the brain in the fourth foetal month, is in the so-called "almondal nucleus". Finally, it was said that from birth to death these differences remain unchanged and do not change. Paedophiliacs analysed the gender identity disorder at this conference. Specifically, he said transgender individuals argue that gender identity disorder is a normal paradigm and not a psychiatric disorder. However, pediatric psychiatrists reported that, according to data from two years of operation of a special university gender-change centre for adolescents in Finland, the majority of cases of gender discomfort were presented in the context of a wider confusion of personal identity, serious psychopathology and major difficulties in the development of adolescents. For this reason, moreover, the American Society of Psychiatric Children and Adolescents published guidelines that characterises the treatments of gender discomfort unsupported scientifically and potentially dangerously. Legal and higher institution professor stressed that gender belongs to stables which first do not change and follow the individual throughout his life. Gender, like other personalisation elements, is governed by the principle of non-free choice, stability and not variability. The rule is that gender classification is not subject to the free choice of the person. Finally, Dean Theological School in its analysis, which you as atheist despair and despise, but we do not despise it and despise it as well as the overwhelming majority of the Greek people, stressed that the biblical reference "decorate man, male and female" is a fundamental humanist principle for understanding the creation of man as a male and female. This principle has started to be called into question since the decorative society wanted to promote social genders against biological ones, or to change the experience until beforehand as to what is natural and what is abnormal, what is normal, what is abnormal or to abolish the sexes, allowing everyone to define themselves not on the basis of what it is, but on the basis of what he would like to be. This is in terms of the first part of the legislative abstention and the morbid legal recognition of gender identity. The second part concerns the establishment of a mechanism for the preparation, monitoring and evaluation of action plans on the rights of the child, which is in fact an abuse of the title 'national'. So since the Tsipras - Kammenos government is doing everything in its power to dismantle the sacred institution of the Greek family, who has for centuries kept the Greek nation alive, it pretends to be interested in the rights of the child, used methods of communist paedomas. Those who imposed the memorial, misery, hunger and impoverishment on the Greeks are coming to represent the guardians of the rights of children. If you really respect and wish to protect the rights of the Greeks, the best thing you can do is to rid them of your destructive presence. However, it is not the rights of the Greeks that you seek to protect. This is a cover for your real goal, which is to control small Greeks from the anti-national state and non-governmental organisations and, on the other hand, to take care of the children of illegal immigrants. This is also reflected in the explanatory statement in which this strategic choice expresses the essential commitment of the Greek State to formulate effective policies for the best interests of every child living in the country. And it is described in the articles, where the Ministry of Migration Policy is involved in the mechanism for the rights of the child. In addition, it is stated that the bodies involved in the recording of their actions should take into account decisions and recommendations from national and international bodies for the protection of human rights and the child. Who are these national and international bodies? It is clear from the combination of the provisions of the proposed Articles 10 and 12 that they are clearly non-governmental organisations. So who do you think you are mocking in general and vaguely talking about supposedly protecting the rights of the child? By the way, your father Stalin, who you are obviously nostalgic about, and his crimes you refuse, only you throughout Europe, would not be proud of your camels at all. You see, your father committed a criminal offense to homosexuality, which until then was considered just a disease, by decree of December 17, 1933, and by a law of March 7, 1934. According to Article 121 of the Soviet Criminal Code, which ceased to apply in 1993, homosexuality was punished by imprisonment of up to five years, while according to paragraph 2, in the event of violence or threat of violence or exploitation, a relationship of dependence or miscarriage of a minor, imprisonment was eight years old. Nicolai Krilenko, a constituent of the people for justice, expressed in January 1936 Father’s official position on homosexuality, which was: “Germany was a product of the decline of class exploitation. In a society based on healthy principles there is no place for such people." Also, Soviet medical authorities and lawyers described it as a manifestation of the moral decline of the bourgeoisie class and in all Soviet books of sexology homosexuality, homosexuality was referred to as “abnormal sexual perversion, a disease that must be cured”. This legislative abstention, however, is also a first-class opportunity to demonstrate the hypocrisy of the NYPD and of the Kammenos party, which co-responsible. The new Republic at the first meeting of the committee responsible stressed by its rapporteur how, in principle, the legislation is positive, noting that it will vote on one condition: that the ANELs vote. Following the severe reactions of the Church, of course, and of society, the New Democracy is attempting folding, but no one is convinced. In the spirit of the bill, the New Democracy is in line, fully subordinated and fully subordinate to the demands of the anti-nationalist circles.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u30	Not at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u31	Is that what you understood before?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u32	We were on the first committee. We have heard your rapporteur, who has changed....
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u33	Don't have a dialogue, because your time is running out.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u34	And now, deeply hypocritical neo-democrats are mocking the Greek people, mocking the Church, mocking everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u35	It's about will.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u36	Do you agree with the spirit of the law, yes or no? You agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u37	You don't understand anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u38	Greetings. Good coexistence with SYRIZA!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u39	You didn't understand anything, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u40	Please don't have a dialogue. Mr. Carachosta, the questions will be asked to the Bureau...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u41	Good coexistence we wish you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u42	...not to the colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u43	They were thrown away, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u44	You're asking and answering on their behalf. Well, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u45	I didn't interrupt anyone. The Independent Greeks from their side were invited to choose between their country and power, to choose between Greek society and roulette. And they chose pure and clear power and roulette! Golden Dawn as the only force of national resistance, which expresses the will of the majority, the overwhelming majority of the Greek people, is voting against this anti-national monstrous feat and calls on the MPs of the other parties, who have ballots of even national and social conscience, to do the same. In any other case, they cooperate in a morbidity, which is directly directed against the Greek family, against Greek society, against the Greek nation itself. And vice versa, the Golden Dawn calls on the Greek people to punish as they deserve those who despise their will and are going to vote for this disguise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u46	Before Mr. Delis talks, the Minister has asked for the floor. Here you go, Minister, what do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u47	I would like to present three amendments and a legislative improvement, so that colleagues know what they are.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u48	All right, I'll give you five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u49	Two minutes, that's enough.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u50	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u51	Apart from Amendment No 1264, which has already been accepted and which I had presented to the committee, we - and I would ask my colleagues to share - with us the amendment under number 1267, which refers to an amendment to the Banking Code. In particular, it is no longer necessary to include in the Bulletin the entire text of the extensive judgments but a summary of the judgments. In addition, Article 148 applies to bankruptcies, both in progress and in previous bankruptcys. The second amendment concerns the increase of the scientific staff of the Psychiatry of Korydallos detainees. A great effort has been made, and now Korydalos Psychiatric School is assigned with high-level scientific staff to better carry out its duties. The third amendment, to which I shall refer, is the general number 1275, so that my fellow Members know, is about speeding up the improvement of the system of legal protection at the stage of administrative contracts. The specific competence of the Pentecost Civil Court is transferred to the respective Administrative Court for the better organisation and uniform judgment of all these cases. On this issue, Mr President, I am speaking on the Minutes and assent of the principle. [[At this point, Minister Stavros Kontonis presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Stenography and Practice Directorate.]] Finally, I would like to mention a legislative improvement in the current bill. In Article 3(2), the reference made to a medical board to be set up by the General Hospital of Children of the "Saly Sunday" is deleted and the following is added: "A multidisciplinary committee set up by a joint decision of the Ministers for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights and Health for two (2) years, in which a child psychiatrist is involved, (b) a psychiatrist, (c) an endocrinologist, (d) a pedophile surgeon, (e) a psychologist and (f) a social worker specialising in this matter." Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u52	The reason is the special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Ioannis Delis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u53	Thank you. First of all, I would like to make a statement that we do not consider to be insignificant. If one looks carefully at the bill, his explanatory statement, the debate that followed, one finds that in the end the scope of today's bill is wider and is not limited to those cases of the so-called 'damaging sex' which do exist. If the government wanted to deal with existing issues facing transgender and medieval children, then it would adopt the scientifically documented and deeply humanist position of the Communist Party of Greece for their full-fledged protection and for the effective safeguarding of their rights. What's that position? The Communist Party of Greece recognises the right of a transgender person to change his gender in his legal documents. In other words, it recognizes it in cases where, for biological, social or other reasons, a person experiences a strong internal conflict between the characteristics of his sex and the gender that he feels belongs to. This individual choice, however, needs to be based on some objective, scientific criteria. In order for the transgender individual to be able to cope with this incompatibility in one way or another, he needs to be aware of all aspects and all the consequences accompanying his individual decision. This knowledge must and can be transferred through the scientific and social support of the individual. It is not enough subjective experience. That, of course, applies to all issues, let alone that. Its individual decision, namely, needs to be based on a discreet, scientifically substantiated and socially institutionalised opinion, without, of course, requiring medical intervention. This is our position, because for the JRC legal recognition of this individual right cannot be of a formal nature. The bill, however, provides for and remains in the formal recognition of this right. In accordance with its provisions, it is sufficient for a self-personal declaration - an application on which the judicial decision to change the registered gender will be based. It does not require any scientific advice. The only conditions provided for are the existence of a moratorium, i.e. the age of eighteen, and not the person being married. In the bill, of course, there are two other age groups, the seventeen-year-old category requiring parental consent and, in addition, the thirteen, fifteen and sixteen-year-old category, where in addition to the parental consent, a positive opinion of the Children's Hospital is also required. A moment ago the Minister amended this to a multidisciplinary committee. We ask, as they ask, scientific bodies and other bodies: On the basis of what criteria will the judge judge judge judge judge when they are not institutionalised by the bill that is supposed to be going to resolve this issue? But can the family itself have the criteria and supplies to deal with such a complex issue, especially in the case of young people in adolescence, without scientific and social support? The scientific opinion is therefore necessary to form the basis of the subsequent judicial decision in order to avoid subjections and arbitrariness. Because some have questions - not always innocent - these opinions will certainly be based on certain scientific criteria of various sectors relating to the whole of human psychosomatic and social development. All these almost self-evident and logical conditions were set by certain bodies at the committee meeting and are increasingly highlighted in the public debate and by scientists, but also by scientific bodies, such as the Paedophiliac Society of Greece, whose letter to Parliament I am tabling in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Delis, presents for the minutes the abovementioned letter, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So the government ignores them and goes beyond them as unnecessarily necessary in its bill, or rather partially accepts them for the ages of 15 and 16. Yes, it is the same government that at the same time blames for the medicalization of anyone who talks about the scientific treatment of a highly complex issue, which for SYRIZA, as his rapporteur said, is supposedly complex - simple to see - and is solved by a simple administrative act. On this occasion, let the Government respond to which scientific criteria it is established that this need for medical advice applies only to the cases of 15 and 16 years of age, while in the seventeen, this need does not exist in the eighteen. Look: Once you deny and the minimum social conditions, you are almost completely downgrading the need for social support measures for the individual before and after which you choose and literally leave it in his fate. Because the social problems faced by a transgender person or a mediator because of racism, offensive behaviour, are not really tackled by a simple administrative or judicial act, nor is it ensured that incompatibility is effectively resolved, support from family, relative, school, social environment. Besides, that's not all we're talking about. They are also confirmed by inter-racial interviews, even after gender change in their legal documents. How will it be called upon to deal with all this without full scientific and social support? And these socially defined factors, the so necessary, are sent to fire to the outside in order not to allegedly limit individual rights. And, however, the restriction of individual rights is precisely when there is no socially-institutional responsibility and social definition. Is this medicalization or psychiatry, restriction or control of individual rights, as the government wants to show it? It is also the only sufficient and necessary condition for the effective development of personality based on the psychosocial support of the individual. However, the bill does not even mention and does not, of course, ensure minimum, even social conditions to support the individual right of transgender people, and that is why it is not an essential response to their problems. And you come at the same time and say that with your bill and a simple change of sex in legal documents, racism, insulting behaviour and the multiformal violence to these individuals are handled. It's at least naive to claim that. Does the bill affect the social causes of racism, intolerance, violence in this particular case, based on gender identity? Does the bill introduce social and scientific conditions for social support for these people to have a normal social life? After all - your bill in what socio-economic system will be implemented? Will it not apply to the social reality of the capitalist jungle, where racism, fascism and intolerance are cultivated and raised? Here too, the government has responsibilities, great responsibilities, because in the culminating, opportunistic way that opens up this issue, it gives all the means to develop the most reactionary disagreements with the issue of the bill. Today we have heard the appalling, creepy, misanthropic views expressed by the Nazi Golden Dawn, which, of course, has come to another anti-communist offense, which has brought the theories of the Middle Ages back to today. We have also recently heard the reactionary views of various actors around the social relations of the two sexes, who, of course, are making use of the plating and superficial way that the government is facing such a complex issue. And do you dare to identify the scientifically documented position of the JRC with all of them, reheating the shaved soup of the two extremes' theory? It disturbs you - we know - the scientifically documented position of the JRC for the complete social protection of the media-sexual children and transgender people, for it responds both to the unscientific views of the SYRIZA - ANEL coexistence, which reaches even the denial of the objective separation of men from women, as well as to the anachronistic perceptions of gender social relations and family moving from other bodies. The socially constructed stereotypes for both sexes - do you remember that the JRC has been condemning the JRC since its establishment for a century now - you think it will become the alibi of SYRIZA to make trade in reactionary ideas, which are even rejected by scientific associations? And you're putting each party's attitude as a dividing line in this particular bill? Really? What do you think? Will you be considered a progressive force because you bring this bill as soon as you are preparing to deprive the workers of the right to strike? Did PASOK and Potami suddenly become progressive parties when adopting the most reactionary views on trade and labour rights at the same time? "We protect and broaden with this bill..." - SYRIZA and the other civil political forces - "... individual rights". We will say this again: in order for individual rights to be exercised, any individual rights, in a substantial and not just formal way, are subject to certain socially defined factors. Individual rights shall not be exercised in the absence of society. They relate to social rights and they supply each other. And to have a good question, do you exclude transgender people from your attack on labour and popular rights? Does the government of SYRIZA not take the lead - taking the dogma, of course, from the previous governments - in the cracking of collective social rights at work, in education, in health, in welfare, in rights - reminiscent of blood and hard struggles? Finally, your perception of individual and human rights is urban as the metro and therefore shallow and deeply hypocritical. It is the concept and policy which, while highlighting the individual rights of the distorted and irrational criteria, as it is, at the same time undermining and denying the universal and non-negotiable nature of social rights, which are being unloaded in the name of individual rights, a civil perception of rights that contrasts individual to social rights. And so whatever individual right is cut off from any social, class definition and becomes a coliform right, whatever legislation supports it. That is why we see the institutional, legal framework, which is based solely on individuality, trapped in its own contradictions. See: A single article - Article 5 - of the bill, to guarantee the individual right to legal recognition of gender change - conflicts - even frontal - with another individual right, with that of parental responsibility. Therefore, no individual rights are completed outside collective, social rights. And because you do not want, nor can you satisfy social rights, universally for all and for all, hypocritically present yourself as defenders of individual rights. Would you like to see the example of Malta and Argentina, which you have put forward, in fact, as an example of imitation? In these countries at the same time as only one application is actually forbidden for women in abortion to change their gender identity in legal documents. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Mr President, I'm going to borrow some time from dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u54	Deuteronology is not present today, Mr. Delia. No exceptions to that. I've shown tolerance to the others. Go ahead. You will have the relative tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u55	Thank you. So this bill is only a duplication of sensitivity by the government and other urban parties that support it in the name of human rights. It is only a cheap trade in needs and rights to give a philosophical alibi to your anti-French politics. The government, however, does not use the bill only to advertise its so - called social sensitivity. It actually gives legal status and power to highly predicted urban theories about social gender, theories that have the blessings of the European Union, the United States and all urban staff. Thus, with his bill SYRIZA comes and unequivocally adopts the complete separation of biological with social gender. There is also the official fake of these theories. These are theories that in an absolute and unscientific way detach the biological characteristics of gender, which, of course, are objectively determined by the individual's perception of gender. Thus, they arrive at SYRIZA MPs questioning even this segregation of a woman as an objective event. These are gender theories like a mold made by society, so it's something we can't change. It is ultimately a vulgar, blatant, unscientific distortion of the very social reality, of the very objective reality, and it goes very well - but too much - to present this irrationalism as a progression here. Idealism is a carabinato, and that's why he's a reactionary one. Of course society's perceptions are changing. Social perceptions, however, are not shaped by the individual experience of each and every one. They are shaped every time under very specific historical, social, economic and political conditions. And today, social perceptions are forming under the influence of multi-faceted and powerful ideological mechanisms that are addictive to capitalist barbarism, which are making objective social reality very obscene, highlighting anti-social standards with the main aim of youth. And these notorious theories of repentance, which SYRIZA presents as a scientific development and on which the bill is based, found appropriate ground during the counter-revolution period. These are highly reactionary theories that do not only concern the identification of gender, but also all aspects of social life, and show the stubbornness of urban ideology. They argue that there is no objective social criterion to determine the individual's place in society, only the criterion of subjective opinion to involve consciences in the nets of indifferent subjectivity and the impasse individual way of dealing with social issues and with smashed individual identities that will become an obstacle to realising the class identity, the need for the struggle for modern social rights worldwide for all and for all.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u56	Close, please, Mr. Delia.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u57	I'm closing, Mr. President. And with today's bill, SYRIZA puts his own stone in order to focus on consciousness and lifestyle the search for an individual solution to the social problems and the deadlocks of capitalist society. Scientific approach to the subject is only made when the biological and social criteria for racial identification are combined and not separated, and that is exactly what denies your bill. But that is the basis for the JRC's position. We are voting against the bill in principle, and for its articles we will be in the course of the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u58	Mr Athanasios Papachristopoulos, special speaker of the ANELs, has the floor. Here you go, Mr. Papachristopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Mr President. I read myself the decision of the Council of Europe plenary under number 2048/2015. It says, therefore, that the plenary of the Council of Europe, with the number I have said, 'Any psychiatric opinion and surgery should not be a prerequisite for legal recognition of gender identity'. One is that. Secondly, the Hellenic Psychiatric Society says - and I don't think it's another company more suitable to have an opinion on this bill - that it's "the issue of social and rights of citizens the identity of gender". And he says: "The bill is moving in the right direction to resolve many issues relating to transgenders and the..." - note the word - "...disappropriation of the subject". The Hellenic Psychiatric Society is talking about the depopulation of the subject. Let's go down. First of all, I want to remind you of what kind of saloon had happened before - we are going a long time ago - when a woman dared to get a divorce, even in our own country. I don't want to remind you of what was going on in the Catholic countries, where the famous Sofia Lauren waited for decades to get divorced. Then again, some people said the family would be broken up, it's against religion, and it goes on to say. Today this has been overtaken and nobody is interested in it. Secondly, I still want to remind you of the terrible loot with the political marriage. The universe had risen up when Andreas Papandreou - I have no hesitation to highlight any positive attitudes of any Prime Minister - "did" then the political marriage. Salos unbelievable. Everyone had risen up. No family was broken up. No religion was hurt, no church. I would also like to remind you of the matter of religion and identities. To be honest, then few people from PASOK had come forward. One of them was Michael Stathopoulos, the respected university teacher and academic. People were up again. There's been a break again, Lord. But I have no hesitation to admit that - in all the European forums, the supreme courts and the then government of PASOK - I have no reluctance to admit it - in all the European forums, the supreme courts and they go by saying. I would also like to say this: Pope Francis recently very, now close, he accepted with love that some in Greece see with contempt and gave a tangible proof that the Church should approach some people who, for 'for' reasons, have a peculiarity. The Pope's report is specific and you can find it. It's written in too many forms. Get in and you'll see her. I would also like to say that countries such as Great Britain, France, Germany, Conservative Italy, have solved this issue for years. I am not talking about the Netherlands, Denmark, Sweden, because these are considered a little more advanced, where this issue is also solved. I would also like to say that it concerns a very small minority of Greeks. However, I believe that the real parliamentary democracy is being tested with minorities, with the few people and their rights, because that is what this is all about. I read, in fact, that a metropolitan says not to step on the Church, whoever votes for it. That's his right. I respect the Church. And I personally talk to you, I'm a Christian Orthodox. I don't see where the religious thing is. This is a purely personal rights issue. If the hierarchs really looked at exactly what this bill says, I don't think they'd get up that much noise. I still respect their point of view, but I do not share it. I come to the ANEL Party, which is a matter of what happens with the ANELs. I'll tell you straight away. We're not hiding. We have won the right to vote consciously in such matters. The whole world knows. Indeed, there are colleagues - and I say this with respect - who have a completely different view on this issue. I mean it and I mean it'respectfully'. But I do not share that view. At the moment - and I am making it clear - I am speaking as a Member of the Greek Parliament and not as a representative of my group - even though I am a secretary of the parliamentary group - for a very simple reason. We have made a gentlemen's agreement - which I shall say - on the whole of the parliamentary group and, furthermore, on that, a vote against conscience. I would like, however, before I get to the vote in conscience and see exactly what everyone is voting on, to remind you of a few things. So I have in front of me what has happened and what is the prerequisite for self-determination - the right to me as a primary - of a citizen. So, to change his identity, present a psychiatrist paper, perform surgery. I don't want to specialize, you all know. We're talking about amputation and stuff like that. It is a practice convicted by the World Health Organisation. Do you hear me? World Health Organization! It has been condemned by the European Parliament. Do you hear me? He has been convicted of torture by the United Nations. Do you hear me? And I would like here to say that although this law had not come, to their honour the judges in 2016 and 2017, were adapted to European reality. I must refer here to all those who have the opposite view - and I re-respect it, and if it is heard - see what the law said in 1976. And those who have a weak memory, this law did not go through any left-wing government by Constantine Karamanlis. Read this law carefully. You will see, then, some elements that are unprecedented for that time and for a conservative government. And here comes this law to fix two things. What I was saying before: ‘Subject to a Surgery Gender Correction is violating the European Convention on Human Rights, by involving the European Court of Justice and the human rights in the recent Garçon and Nicot v France’. Nineteen countries of the Council of Europe have introduced the change of identity documents without surgery. That's what today's law comes to correct. Because I hear something about fashion, etc. Comic stuff! The rapporteur has said so, too, and many others have said so. It concerns a very small proportion of citizens - but very small - who must have a right. I don't want to say it all over again. He must have that right. And I still want to say good news and something else. I have not two in front of me, but ten court rulings. Before making the law, they have decided that amputation has no place and it is a simple adaptation to European data. Nothing less and nothing more.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u60	Twelve are the decisions!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u61	I've got ten. But you're right, Mr. Amyras.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u62	All right, now let the dialogue go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u63	I'm sorry, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u64	Go on, Mr. Papachristopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u65	Okay, well, it was a good break, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u66	Either ten or twelve, it doesn't change. The point remains.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u67	George, I've got ten in front of me. I don't have 12. I have no reason to question you. I do not want to read them, because I will have a lot of time, but they all say that it is medieval treatment of amputation. We're just speaking Greek! It's a medieval treatment for those who haven't understood it. This thing can't go on. And there can't be people here who are wiser than the whole world. And I've heard incredible things since morning. As far as we Independent Greeks are concerned, with great respect and love, I was within two and a half hours and listened with sacred dedication to the parents of these children. It would be worth being all the Members of the Greek Parliament that day to listen to them. Yes, but we as Independent Greeks have been differentiated and have said so to all three committees. We want to spend the eighteenth year of his age. I mean, she's seventeen years old and a day, buddy Lappa. I sincerely say this with a lot of sympathy, much love and much understanding, and I know how the Minister who had expressed his view - I have it before me - that he should spend the eighteenth year of his age. And after what he saw, he differentiated it, and he threw insurance valves. I respectfully call it. I heard today the man who took the lead in the religion and identities, Michael Stadopoulos. He said exactly what the bill says. He said he's in the positive direction. It's a matter of human rights. It's nothing less and nothing more. I heard him being a little relaxed on the issue of age. That's what the Independent Greeks do. And that is not what I want to see as a controversy, because I hear about declaring and comical things. You don't have to be a constitutionalist. Only a motion of censure and a vote of confidence is lost. Some who dream of a break between the Independent Greeks and the Government should understand that. It doesn't exist, it didn't exist, and there won't be such a break. Keep this in mind. Finally, I want to believe and I really believe that this bill will be passed. I personally - because it is my personal view - would be pleased if I could vote for Article 3. Unfortunately, I am committed to the issue of age and I will only be forced to vote against this article.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u68	Will the Annell vote against?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u69	I personally. I said that at first - we have said so many times, not to say again - there is no dissatisfaction. The article is passed by all Members of the Independent Greeks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u70	Thank you too, Mr Papachristopoulos, for keeping time. Before I summon Mr. Saridis to the Step, I'd like to say something for a minute. I do not think there is any wing that does not condemn compulsory amputation. But there are some of these people who want to do plastic surgery.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u71	That's all!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u72	Wait a minute. You don't know what I mean. This needs specialized scientific staff and specialised center. I may be wrong, but I don't know a public hospital of the National Health System that has this specialised center and this specialized staff. And if there is, it'll be one. So, if there is no in the public sector, where of course it is covered by the general legislation of free hospital treatment, and it must go to the private sector in a specialised centre in or outside Greece, if this is not covered by the costs that the National Health System or the relevant fund will approve - look at - it is a gift free of charge. For how many families are so rich to cover such an operation for their child? Usually, it is minimal and they are forced - I will not say the word - to resort to something that they neither want.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u73	We're not talking about surgery for juveniles.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u74	No, I said out of NSA. So I think that by tomorrow, it is a condition that either one vote in favour of the bill or against seeing it. And if it is not covered - I have a reservation whether it is covered - by the legislation, it should be covered.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u75	The institutions have also been asked to do so, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u76	The Minister should see it possibly with the Minister for Health and the Minister for Social Security. Mrs Ahtsoglou will be here for an amendment. I just wanted to put this thought in the Chamber. Mr. Saridis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u77	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the memoranda and the political narratives that accompanied them have changed many important things in our country. Among those who radically changed were the way in which the citizens look at the respective legislative initiatives of the government. The dominant political account that the domestic political parties strongly and fully supported in order to explain the decisions of the Memorandumian Governments, namely that because they are blackmailed by the institutions, they are forced for the good of the country to submit and ultimately legislate things that they do not want, forced Greeks to be more careful, to take care of specific things, before expressing their opinion on a bill. First of all, they are concerned with his fatherhood, and that is why they wonder each time: “This bill is what? Did he write it Greek or was it written out in Europe somewhere?’ For the paternity of today's bill, there is absolutely no doubt about it. This bill was not written by the lenders, this bill was not sent by e-mail from Brussels, this bill was not delivered to the services of the Parliament by the technical bars of the troika. The bill is 100% Greek. There will therefore be no excuse for those who think to vote and who will vote for it, how the institutions have imposed it. So since we have seen the paternity of the bill, let us also consider its ideological identity. This is something we have the luxury of being able to look for only in purely Greek bills, that is, 100% of Greek bills, as we said today. Because on the other hand, the troika in the authorial group, next to the term 'ideological identity', is usually a memorial opportunity for microparticipatory amendments. That's the truth. So, looking for his ideological identity, I read Mr Tsakalotou's analysis that "the current bill is at the same time purely liberal, but also radically modern and left". And of course, always according to Mr. Tsakalotos, "this bill is a transcript proof, not only of the radical, left consciousness of the SYRIZA, but also of its ability to manage the memoranda, in a way that leaves a progressive imprint on society". I must say that Mr Tsakalotou's attempt to give a ideological basis and to identify ideological roots in another ministry's legislative initiative and not the one he himself was touching and justified. Since he can't find anything from his own ministry's bills on the left, the radicals, the radicals, the progressives, he thought about this bill, approaching ideologically. And sincerely, he has identified the reasons why all ideologies, left-wing and liberals, are converging in favour of the contents of this bill. Unfortunately for you and Mr Tsakalotos, but also for those who are trying to argue in favour of the view that this matter has an ideological basis, you cannot change the general concept of our fellow citizens, namely that there is no ideological identity on this particular subject. It does not belong, ladies and gentlemen, to an ideological approach to this issue. It is a matter of purely social and no ideological. It is purely - I would say - a deep social issue and that is what concerns the Greeks, mainly because this is something that the Greek society experiences at its core, in other words, the institution of the family. Therefore, none of our fellow citizens, when discussing this particular issue, are approaching it as ideological, but as a social one. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, this bill did not have to be imposed on you either by the lenders or by your left ideology. The ideological debate relating to the nature of the ideological rights lasts a hundred and fifty years on the left, as Mr Tsakalots says in his article, and he will keep so much more - I say - as his refusal, if anything else consistent, to his ideas of the Communist Party. Neither in the international nor in the historical nor the domestic left are you going to find any arguments, because this particular public dialogue has not even come to an end. The fact that Mr. Tsakalots attempted vaguely to give a left ideological sign to a bill, which is objectively aimed at a purely social issue, proves the poverty of your argument. You claimed that there was a wide-ranging dialogue, that public consultation had been fruitful and that we have exhausted it for over a year and a half now. These claims are unsubstantiated. Show us even a point of the bill that is the result of this dialogue, of the fertile social dialogue! Can you give us a point, a provision of the bill proving that you have taken into account even one of the dozens of serious and substantiated observations that have made you dozens of actors and social groups respectively? You have not dealt with any of the proposals that have been made. You did not give any of the justified warnings at all. You did not hear either the National Committee on Human Rights or have never spoken to Greek paedophiles. Once again legislate for the Greeks, without the Greeks. How can you claim there was a dialogue when you ask child psychiatrists to sign your progressive law, when you haven't asked them if they are in agreement with him? So that is the radical law that characterizes you as a political party. This is the result of a fertile public dialogue, which you have done yourself and between you. Did you read the letter from the children's psychologists, or is Mr. Tsakalotou's scientific adequacy sufficient?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u78	What's he saying? Is it opposite?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u79	Ladies and gentlemen, read it!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u80	We've got her in front of us!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u81	Ladies and gentlemen, the identity crisis you are going through, because you have fallen victim to your memorial extortion and have had to make neoliberal cysts, is currently on the rise. It is precisely this outbreak in the identity crisis that you are experiencing, it is also responsible for your unfortunate and dangerous choice to deal with at the time of the Greek society, with a very serious issue for a very wrong reason and in a very wrong way. You tried to justify your initiative, speaking of human rights. We have proved this to you, however, through the committees with examples, that this bill has nothing to do with human rights. He doesn't protect these people. On the contrary, he's targeting them. In fact, the wording of its provisions is so sloppy that it is risky, as you are all aware, by presenting tens of examples of possible future situations in which many problems will arise, without any reason at all. On the other hand, you were unable to present us with a single case in which this law would offer a solution to a specific problem. In short, there is no scientific or social body that has not warned you that this law is perforated and that not only does it solve any problems, on the contrary, creates new ones. In view of all this, therefore, I conclude that today's bill serves only one purpose and does so in the wrong way. You tried to see how far left you are. The only thing you have managed to do, however, was to bring about another blow to social cohesion. At a time when the economic crisis is trying human relations every day, which the Greek family is suffering from all times, that poverty and unemployment create conflicting conditions between the social groups, at this time the government considered it appropriate and believed that it was in the interests of the citizens to legislate on a social issue that divides, which has not been discussed and which is not solved by laws without a genuine public social dialogue. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS VARENTIS takes over]] Ladies and gentlemen, the SYRIZA rapporteur has presented today's bill - and quite rightly so - as a simplification of the procedure already in force today. So far, you have avoided to admit that, in other words, you are not the first one to deal with, you are not the one who comes to make something new, something from the beginning. You are the ones who come to oversimplify the current provisions. Finally, even at the last moment, here in plenary, you will finally admit that the so-called huge problem, which you are going to solve, has created a so-called radical initiative. And the oversimplifications, you know, are based on your ideology. In no case do you serve the interests of those who are lawfully and supposedly cut. The references to the attitude of the Central Association demonstrate your anxiety to hide this undeniable fact: this bill has nothing to do with protecting these people. The Centro Association said at every opportunity that it would stand next to these people's struggle against violence, social exclusion, abuse and exploitation. We never said we would support absurd things, just to pretend we were interested. It is unreasonable at 15 to deal with this as a psychiatry, and at seventeen as a simple decision, which in the eighteenth time you can change it and get it back. It is absurd and false to claim that these people's problems will be solved within a day with a magic paper. Will the state stop to be analgesic? Will the red tape be cynical? Will racists be forced to stop being racist? Will all public services and private companies comply? Is everything going to change for these people because they're gonna hold a court ruling in the hand? But, then, ladies and gentlemen, why have the problems of our fellow citizens not solved, which are also the ones on their side holding a judicial decision in hand? How many are there, you know? There are tens of thousands who beg, yelling, angry at all times outside ministries, outside municipalities, outside regions, and even outside the parliament. SYRIZA is trying to convince that this bill is a great step forward and that he alone is trying to protect human rights and whoever doesn't agree with him. This particular logic, which is expressed on several occasions in this Chamber, is dangerous to democracy. We, as a Centro Association, do not give in to extortion, reject the false dilemma "either you are with us or you are with others". We are with logic, with modesty, with consensuality and realism. In this context, then, we as the Central Association think that the bill should be withdrawn, because its poor quality causes Greek society, leads it to discussions, which have nothing to do with whether these people need protection from the state and how the violence and exclusion that exist will be stopped. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill has nothing to do with human rights. It is a deposit of a certificate of left-hand thinking and radicalism. Changes with rough and illegitimate laws without the agreement of society are not made. It won't change anything for these people. On the contrary - I repeat - they will be targeted. No problem of their everyday life will be solved by a law and a judicial decision. I close my position with a comment on what was said about the Church all these days and on the basis of this bill. Every time you succeed against orthodoxism, you succeed against Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u82	Where does he say that?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u83	And because I have been informed that some people are insisting - and I have only informed you a moment ago - on bringing us back the irresponsible amendment which opens the way for Turkish reform and leaves the Turkish consulate openly, I will tell you that I will recommend the withdrawal of the Centro Association from the Chamber. Those who have written this amendment and those who vote are willing and do harm in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u84	Mr President, I would like for a minute to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u85	The Minister has the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u86	We have tabled the amendment, as has been enriched and, as has been amended, on Article 758 of the Code of Civil Procedure as an answer to what my colleague said! We've filed her and I'm asking her to share with my colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u87	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Mavrosh has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, Mr President. Today we are discussing the Legislation on Gender ID and the National Mechanism for the Rights of the Child. The debate, of course, has been one-sided by the first part on gender identity. It concerns a group of our fellow citizens, trans, their transgenders and their right to self-determination in terms of their sex, that is, the legal possibility of correcting sex by means of a judicial decision only, without prerequisite for surgery or other medical interventions. Why does that need to be done, why is it important? Because it enables a group of our fellow citizens to avoid marginalisation, humiliation, stigmatisation, exclusion, and other people feel themselves. They can finally identify their perception of themselves by recording them in the state registers. This provides an opportunity to improve their vocational, educational and social integration. How's that gonna happen? By having a trans woman to rent a house without looking at her, because identity data don't match what she sees or go to a public service without being fooled about her identities. You see, the stereotype there is, that the only job a trans woman can do is work related to sex and to margin in general, is inherent. They are not given the opportunity to have a job in daylight. According to the European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights, the FRA, only 49% of trans people in Europe have paid work. Imagine how much this percentage is in Greece. So there's a vicious circle that needs to be broken. The picture many have about trans people comes from the fact that they live on the margin. They live on the sidelines because they did not have the opportunities in education, work and home, and did not have these opportunities, because the state did not allow them to have the appropriate documents. This vicious circle comes to break this particular piece of legislation. Also, this legislation aligns our country to some extent with Resolution 2048/2015 of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, entitled "Discrimination against Transnational People in Europe". Incidentally, this week is the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. I should normally be there now, like the SYRIZA rapporteur, but I stayed in Athens for this particular bill. On Thursday, it is even being discussed in the Council of Europe - and, as it seems, it will be voted on unanimously by the Commission - the resolution on the elimination of discrimination against innersex people, whether interracial or messengers, that is, people born with sexual characteristics not exclusively male or female. It is proposed, on the basis of the resolution, that intersex should also be given the opportunity to define themselves and not necessarily the double man - woman, but that there should be a vacancy or a third entry, which we too need to take seriously in this bill and we will table an amendment to that effect. But let's see him also: Why a three-page bill, which says someone self-evident, creates such reactions? Because some are afraid that the legal recognition of gender will encourage 'deviants' (in their opinion) behaviour, because it will facilitate the exercise of a right. They fear that if this integration of trans people into society is facilitated, there will be abuse. But nature doesn't ask us, it's not black and white, 100% male or 100% female. So what do we do in these interim cases? Should we condemn them for life on the sidelines, not be able to study, not be able to find a job, not be able to find a home, to be publicly humiliated and stigmatized, to be victims of discrimination, bowling and rhetoric hatred, and finally to end up with many people in suicide, unable to withstand? Is this tolerable by our society and cannot it be tolerated to be able to take them out of the deadlock by recognising their self-determination? Get them out of the margin. And if they come out of the margin, they can tear down social stereotypes. For example, in the Council of Europe we have a parliamentarian from Belgium, which is trans, Petra de Sutter. As strange as it may seem at first, no one is left alone in being trans, but at how good it is at work. Full integration, full integration into society. Another example you might know. British Alan Turing, the well-known father of computer science and by the missing protagonists of the allies' victory in World War II, because he deciphered the German cryptographic machine, ENIGMA, was a homosexual. In the 1950 ’ s, seventy years ago, he was considered ill. He was subjected to hormone therapy. He killed himself in his forty - two years in 1954, and in 2009 the British government with Gordon Brown apologized for this behavior. Social liberalism based on European Enlightenment has taken steps. But this is not a race of speed. It is a constant struggle of endurance - even Alan Turing was a marathon road and almost went to the Olympic Games in 1948 in London - a road of endurance with many turns. It is our duty not to give up, not to be afraid, to put the man at the heart of the decisions. Since we are in sport and because we have seen representatives of sport doing some unfortunate postings, and because I often hear the argument about gender identity regarding sports matches - what they will do, how they will take part, everything will be blown up in the air - I would like to say this: the sport movement, therefore, I inform you that it is more ahead. The International Olympic Committee, considering that no one should be excluded from the sport movement, examined at a specific conference the subject of trans sports and sports. In November 2015 he issued a specific directive for trans athletes and athletes, so that there is no unfair advantage in the games. In short, this directive says, for those who declare a gender correction to their identity, that trans men, that is to say, those who corrected data from a woman to a man, participate without restrictions in men's struggles, and trans women, those who corrected from men to women, participate after hormone testing has taken place in the past year, that is to say, having testosterone below a certain limit. Also, five months ago, I took part in a conference of the Council of Europe again in Cyprus, where the issues of diversity and universal participation in sport were mentioned and discussed, where examples were presented from various countries. In fact, I should like to tell you that the Council of Europe since 2012 has issued a manual entitled 'Integration of the LGBT community into sport', with good practices, where you can even see unions or organisations for the members of the LGBT community in order to destroy the various stereotypes. Closed up with sport, let me tell you a personal experience. One day ago, because we were talking about the matter, someone said to me: "And you, Blacky, will you vote on it? "You, who have lifted the Greek flag?" My answer was that that is why I shall vote for it. When I lifted the Greek flag, I did it for all the Greeks. I do not remember doing this for all Greeks except for trans, except for the Roma, except for Catholics or Muslims. [[Applause from the wings of the river and SYRIZA]] Ladies and gentlemen, a lot has been said in the public debate, a lot of sparrows, a lot of misinformation from journalists and, unfortunately, also from politicians. Symphony and populism have had a party. I have carefully read the operators' memos and the tent memo, which calmly, without exaggeration and fanaticism, expresses some arguments. Respectfully. However, the question arises: if we put in the balance, on the one hand, the possibility of abuse of the law by a few people and, on the other, the redemption that will result from the right use for many, to where the decision will be reached? In addition, we are here to monitor its implementation. And when there's scientific documentation, there's the guarantees. Let me say a few words about the intervention of the Church. Obviously, with encouragement from the most extreme hierarchies, he made an immediate intervention, urging the government to withdraw it and the parties not to vote for the bill, arguing that it is a time bomb on the foundations of the Greek family. However, the Greek family is not at risk from the right to dignity of a portion of our people. Much more is at risk, for example, from our bad road behaviour, the road accidents that are extinguished and plunging thousands of families into mourning each year. And just because the Church embraces the devastated and marginalized, because it teaches and deeds love and solidarity, and in recent years we have seen this happen with its charitable work in difficult times for our country, I think it should be seen with greater sympathy and graciousness that this bill has been done. In the context of a continuous dialogue between the State and Church, we are very respectful to hear its view. But wanting to impose on the legislature of a secularist still, I hope, a state of opinion as a dominance, I think goes beyond its role. [[Applause from the wings of the river and SYRIZA]] In a secular state religious doctrines cannot be above human rights. We keep spirituality, love and solidarity from the standpoint of the Church, which is its eternal example, and with this compass, we are trying to help today’s oppressors. However, the anthropocentric approach that the Church always seeks, at least its enlightened priests, actually goes hand in hand with the contents of the bill. The human-centered approach to the state is called "rights", and the Church is called "solidarity". The difference is only apparent from the perspective. The Church generalizes it and that's where he sees a problem. The state individualizes it and that's where it sees a solution. However, it is not wrong that the State should sometimes disagree with the Church, as long as this is done in a context of dialogue, where, in order to be fertile, the extremists, on the other hand, should not have the first reason. I'm not naive. I know, of course, that the Church has political power, that it has votes. And that is why you will see absenteeism or a change of attitude from various politicians today and tomorrow, politicians who are progressive until the bell rings. To conclude, the liberals (who suddenly loved SYRIZA, either by articles - we saw yesterday by Mr Tsakalotou - or by speeches today) see the human right where conservatives see the social threat. Furthermore, the liberals, colleagues of SYRIZA, see the private initiative and equal opportunities where you see only a state and a "logue", because there can be no liberalism. We are a deeply conservative society, a society where slogans gain arguments, populism gains rationality, stereotypes gain rights. Today, a minority group of fellow citizens is oppressed, humiliated, stigmatized and marginalised because of loopholes in the law, which is now being covered. Democracy is based on the majority in order to protect and protect minority rights. And this bill is such an example. The dividing line between progress and maintenance, once put between the left and the right, has been shifted. This dividing line today is between a liberal conception of individual rights and a systemic, traditional conception of nomenclidura: rights to dogmas, whether ideological, religious, or economic, philosophical and others. On the one hand, what puts a man in the center and on the other hand what puts the system down to the center. The open, outward-minded, closed-fright. This is today the dividing line between progress and maintenance and this dividing line runs horizontally across all the political areas. We are therefore voting in favour of this bill as we have for some time already announced. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u89	Thank you. I would like to make it clear to the House that there have been objections of constitutionality on the part of the Golden Dawn and we shall apply paragraph 2 of Rule 100 of the Rules of Procedure of this House, which means that they have the right to speak by the speaker, Mr Ioannis Ragos, Mr Spyridonos Lappas and the Presidents of Parliament or the parliamentary representatives and the Ministers responsible, each for five minutes of the hour. Mr. Rabbit has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u90	First of all, it should be stressed that as Golden Dawn we naturally stand by the decision of the Holy Synod of the Church. Because we have just heard some 'progressive' people actually nurture our Church and do not respect the decision, and if it is for 0.001%, as the SYRIZA rapporteur has told us earlier, we accept these decisions, because we are now legislating for them according to yours. But, for the Church, which represents about 98% of Greek citizens, we hear that it should not be taken a position. You're making a big mistake. The Church must take place, the Orthodoxy must take place, because it is an integral part of the Greek society, whether you want it, or you don't want it. So, as the Holy Synod says, man’s gender is not eligible. Man’s gender is a gift of God, which cannot be changed, but must only be exploited. Then and now to the main demand of the request for unconstitutionality tabled by the Golden Dawn, we have to say that, firstly, it is not possible for people at the age of 15 to decide, to make a shocking decision for the rest of their lives - I repeat, at the age of 15 - when the 15-year-olds have no right to vote, they have no right to make a driving licence, they have no right to watch a film on television without parental consent. But they have the right to call men women and vice versa! It's incomprehensible! And, of course, I would stress that the matter of the Golden Dawn is not 15 years to become 18 or 22 or 25. We disagree vertically in this bill, and we do not agree with anything. We are simply saying this to highlight once again the sloppyness of the government and the way they bring legislation to represent the progressives, while the Greeks are hungry. We also want to say that, in accordance with Article 4 of the bill, we see that the judge, who should normally have the role of controlling and judging whether this application is correct, if there are any criteria to make this gender change, actually has no jurisdiction but to sign the necessary documents so that in five minutes the man has become a woman and vice versa. We would also like to say that the entire bill - Articles 1 to 7 - is in perfect contrast with Article 21 of the Constitution, according to which the family is distorted as a foundation for the maintenance and promotion of the nation. This, of course, also contradicts Article 1389 of the Civil Code which refers to the legitimate spouse's family, and this is only a field of obligations and rights within the State and the institutions. So this bill conflicts perfectly with Article 21 of the Constitution. He's stumbling, I'm brutal. Also, what you are legislating today with this shameful bill, with this abortion, is the possibility of homosexual couples being given the opportunity to become "marriage" because it will be possible to change their sex of one of the two in order to create a so-called family. Family is nothing else, according to the Greek Constitution, except the association of a man with a woman and then the creation of a family. We would also like to say something about Article 5 of the Constitution, which stresses that everyone has freedom in Greece and can do whatever it wants, but it must not offend the good customs of our country and of the people who live in Greece. This is the definition of trespassing and desecration of moral users of our country. As Golden Dawn, then, we have to stress that even if you vote for this abominable bill, we will then do all the legal procedures, we will have recourse to the courts, we will have moves and we are sure that this abortion that you are voting on today will either take place in the House - which I do not believe you are very 'progressive' here - or in the courts by our judges.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u91	Mr. Lappas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I see the proposal for unconstitutionalism tabled by the Golden Dawn. What articles violate the bill, says Golden Dawn? Article 2, which provides perhaps in the most progressive and democratic way throughout Europe, perhaps throughout the world, the value of man, dignity, that is, Article 4 on the equality of Greeks of sex, race, etc., Article 5 on the free development of personality and Article 21 on the family. Mr President, all these articles in the first place fall within the sensitive area of individual rights. I must tell the Greek Parliament that individual rights are not conditional nor can they be non-discriminatory. It is undeniable, Mr President. Do you know why? For from ancient times to present in this eternal development of the relationship of power and authority, states of power and society, whatever is conquered every time in favour of the individual is called an individual right, in the sense that it is a defence of the citizen against any authoritarian attitude of the state. It's not conditional. It is undeniable, as we say, to enjoy interests and individual rights. I shall say that in my speech and in response to Mr Delis, who has developed a strange conception. What matters is that this bill refers to the area of individual rights and protects equality, dignity and equal treatment regardless of sex, race and other criteria. The hard core of fundamental human rights is therefore protected. I stress the word 'godly', Mr President, so that the gentlemen of the Golden Dawn also listen that fundamental rights have been put under their boot on a daily basis to our fellow humans in Greek society. "The fundamental" means, Mr President, that the individual rights established in the Greek Constitution are one of those which are unreserved and cannot be altered, they can only be abolished by fascist and dictatorial regimes. Nazis in the 1940s had abolished or suspended the implementation and application of individual rights. In a democratic and favoured society, it is forbidden to talk about alteration or alteration or in any way to suspend the application of individual rights articles. Given the opportunity, I would say that individual rights of equality, equal treatment and self-determination, which is a basic concept to the will of the person concerned and runs the entire bill - and that is exactly what we need to stress - are reflected in the articles which are supposed to be violated in accordance with this proposal. It is Article 2 on human dignity, Article 4 on equality. Read, gentlemen of the Golden Dawn, King Ferraion's article, since so much are people of the nation and Greece: "All men are equal regardless of any distinction". Read the first Epidaurus Constitution, in Article III, the first post-revolutionary constitution, where people enjoy equality also without unfavourable position, class or office. That's what the rebellious Greeks said, which is fine for you. You say it in here, but when you come out of the Chamber and across from our fellow humans, these are fine letters for you. There's your boot smacking both the personality and the rights of our fellow people. The bill, Mr President, is what it is doing in the rapporteur's report? It governs these individual rights I have told you about. At the same time, however, we must also take a decision as a state, as a society and as a Parliament. When we have no pressure from the country - we are slandering and coming to European or international conventions, we will come here to undo them - and that is addressed to the New Democracy in particular - by saying that this is not right or excessive or anything else? These international and European conventions have become internal law and even over-legislative. In other words, if a provision of the Greek law conflicts with these conventions, Mr President, the view of the international or European convention on the basis of which we came is prevailing. That means over-legislative power. How about this, gentlemen of the New Democracy?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u93	We've been through it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u94	You said it the way you said it. Here, Mr President, beyond the European institutions and courts, which we must respect absolutely for the reason I have told you, we are involved in the World Health Organisation. We have a recent UN recommendation, in 2013, which says that if we maintain Law 344/1976 and we oblige the person who will change sex to perform medical surgery or surgery, etc., this constitutes torture, mutilation and is banned. Our country is in danger of being condemned once again on human rights issues. We must therefore make a decision that we will be observing them without delay. Also, there was a mention by the caller of the opposition to anti-constitutionalism for the fifteenth year that he allegedly lacks parental care, etc. It is expressly laid down in the law that serious security and protectionist disputes are provided for the young person of 15 and 16 years old. The first is the parental agreement, that is, parental care. Secondly, there should be no more simple opinion from the Children's Hospital, but interdisciplinary, wider and more representative of child scientists, and thirdly, there is a judicial decision. Is the court decision, gentlemen of the Golden Dawn, a simple printing of the documents? It's a court judgment, which means that it's a legal conviction based on documents, witnesses, etc. That means a court judgement. But where would you understand that? They're fine. Finally, Mr President, what the bill says is enshrined in the Greek Constitution and in international conventions, but we now have the very happy time to precede Greek courts. Twelve decisions of the peace tribunal on gender change have become irreversible now. They run the whole body of the rightful spirit of Greek society. What are we talking about? We're going through it next door? Minister, I believe that this is the first time that the Greek state has come to confirm a constitutional arrangement. Thirty-seven years I am a lawyer and always case law followed by interpreting, accepting or not the law. Now what do we have, Mr President? The Greek legislator comes in to picture in a piece of legislation what Greek case law accepts. In my speech then I will say what this famous peace court ruling has said then, the 418 of 2016 and the other 11 that followed. It is indeed a declaration of humanity, charity, equality and equal treatment. Finally, I would like to say one last thing about the Members of the Golden Dawn. Pastor Martin Niemoller said that if you do not protest because today the Jews, the Communists, the homosexuals and the Catholics are being persecuted, our turn will one day come - and this concerns all of us, not you - and nobody will be here to support us. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u95	Mr Fortsakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u96	Mr President, we are debating today an issue which is primarily a social and human issue and, secondly, a political, ideological or legal issue. We have developed the views through our rapporteur, who has explained very well that there is no doubt that those people who experience a disturbance must find the peace they deserve and that the state must give them this opportunity with the appropriate institutional framework and, of course, there is no question that this legal framework cannot include conditions such as amputation or sterilisation, etc. So that's not what we're talking about. It's completely clean and clear. Besides, in what the Church says, God has given man his gender, it is the problem. It's about finding out exactly what sex is. So there is no doubt in these matters. Where we have raised objections, and that is why we have tabled this proposal, it is that everyone's ability to find themselves through a legitimate and fast and effective route should also be accompanied by certain guarantees which will ensure the public interest. What's the public interest? It is first - first - the person expressing his will in such a way as to be unadulterated, that is, his will to be his true will, and secondly, to be able to hold a prerogative with the cohesion and security that is imposed. That has been said by the Court of Human Rights, which has dealt with the case. The honourable Members have so far referred to the Garçon decision, which clearly says it in its own right. We believe that there is, of course, no question of unconstitutionality. And we think that even on the issue of the child, that is, the 15-year-old child, it is obviously in our own perception that he is immature to make the statement he has to make in order to be able to find himself. We say that a child must reach at least eighteen years so that he can grow within himself. We also know that from the statements made by the Paediatric Society, which writes them in detail in its communications on the subject. In no case, however, is it a legal matter. The opposition to anti-constitutionalism is a legal objection, which cannot be dealt with politically or ideologically, so we cannot accept it. We believe that this is a way of avoiding the debate on the substance, and that is why we will not support it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u97	Thank you. Mr. Theocharopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u98	Mr President, with regard to the objection of anti-constitutionalism, it is clear that those which include instruments and the position previously adopted, these nationalist, racist, homophobic positions are the same anti-constitutional and there is no objection of unconstitutional at first sight. It is about fundamental human rights, about the defence of human rights - one of these we are discussing today - and I will therefore not go into any discussion on the substance of a proposal which obviously has no basis. The bill is not unconstitutional in principle. On the contrary, this is another delirium of the Golden Dawn with nationalist, homophobic and racist positions. We shall talk about the substance in our position.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u99	Thank you. Mr. Amyras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u100	Thank you, Mr President. Neither one nor two, but twelve irrevocable court rulings of Athens and Thessaloniki have decided that no correction can be made to the gender identity cards of a person through forced amputation and sterilisation, i.e. forced surgery. So there is no question of unconstitutionalism for us, and I think we can move on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u101	Thank you. Now Mr. Papachristopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u102	We agree with the previous speakers that the issue of unconstitutionality does not exist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u103	Minister, would you like to take the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u104	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u105	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate under Rule 100(2) of the Rules of Procedure on the issue of unconstitutionalism has been concluded. Accepting the objection of unconstitutionality, please rise. [[Responding to the objection]] It is clear that the number of Members required by the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure has not been raised. The objection of unconstitutionality is therefore rejected. We shall now enter the list of registered speakers. Mrs. Kozobol from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u106	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the bill that we are debating today is positive and negative. In other words, it has a load on both sides, and that is a burden. Both loads are unfair to the draft law, they are confusing. This legislative initiative does not need any outlines or ornamentals. It takes a cool approach to see the draft law in its true dimensions. What exactly are we to vote today, ladies and gentlemen? Simplification of the existing legislative framework since 1976 for the legal recognition of the possibility of redefining a person's gender. Recasting the legislative framework is done in accordance with the recommendations of the Council of Europe, in order to provide additional guarantees of dignity, in particular confidentiality of the procedure and legal certainty, based on what is already accepted by the case law of the Greek courts. Because many, whether deliberately or not, ignore the fact that the legacy changes of registered sex have been made by court decisions for years since 1976, without any of the problems that today appear to be threatening social cohesion or causing it, such as supposedly avoiding military service, the unbaptised Mount Athos, avoiding debt payments, concealing infraction, overthrowing family law or unlike sex athletics. This is an attempt to create impressions. The case-law has already started to adapt to what we are now legislating. It is typical that the decision of the Athens Peace Court on the grounds of 418/2016, where the applicant for the correction of the birth order had not been made to a surgical change of sex. "As the judge of the court..." - says in her statement - "This should not be considered a problem for the required changes in the birth order. Specifically, the decision continues - "... mandatory sterilisation - surgical gender change by removing genitals from female to male and vice versa as a recognition of gender change in transgender individuals is an exaggeration requirement and a practice that violates Article 8 of the ECHR, according to which everyone has the right to respect for his or her personal and family life, home and communications. The above obligations also run counter to... - the decision continues to be taken in its thinking - '... the right to equality and non-discrimination under Articles 2 and 26 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights.' These are in terms of the reasoning of the decision. I did not understand, ladies and gentlemen, and I think none of you understood that social cohesion was being broken up because of this decision and perhaps others I am ignoring. I would, indeed, like the court's decision to put it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Panayota Kozobol - Amanatidis, presents for the minutes the abovementioned decision, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Different views are absolutely respected. However, the right to self-determination belongs to fundamental human rights and to the basic rules of democracy insist that the different view of wherever it comes must in no way undermine fundamental human rights and must not be divided into the body of society. I therefore endorse the view that the draft law on the legal recognition of gender is a step towards respect for fundamental human rights. It facilitates the right to gender correction without subjecting interested parties to degrading or brutal treatment and actually comes to protect a group of people, which many of us hypocritically want to ignore, to do that we do not see fellow humans and to make them invisible. Let us not continue this way. I will finish my speech in the way that concludes its report on what the Greek Union for Human Rights is discussing today. The report concludes: "The vote of this bill is not a reason for either celebrations or disappointment. It is only a step - small but absolutely necessary - in order to eliminate racist prejudices and fully integrate the trans people into the Greek society." Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u107	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, twenty-three students and students and three educational attendants from the Municipal School of Agios Dimitrios Argolidas. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Theodores Fortsakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u108	Thank you very much, Mr President. As I said before, when I spoke about unconstitutionalism, we are talking here today about a matter primarily human and social and secondary political and ideological. I am very sorry that the government did not follow this path because, unfortunately, the debate and the public consultation that has taken place was very limited, but it has used an extremely sensitive issue to cover internal issues rather than to resolve the problem, which is indeed there even though a small number of citizens - fortunately! - He's suffering from this. I said before that there is no one - in our view - who calls into question the individual right of everyone who feels to belong to a sex other than the one to which nature seems to have identified it, to do what is necessary to enable it to balance and that the institutional framework should give him this opportunity. I would remind you that it has been possible in our country for many years to change sex within the framework of the changes provided for by the law on registration, but, as a precondition, there has also been a change in biological characteristics, which was considered by case law - and by Greek and international - as an adversary to human rights, which was, of course, correct. That is why we are discussing the new regulation, where we have a distinction between social and biological identity. The problem which arises, I think, has been dealt with and somehow specified by the Garçon judgment of the Court of Human Rights. The Garçon judgment accepted that there could be no condition for the amputation or sterilisation of people seeking gender change. On the other hand, however, it was accepted that there must be a safeguard of public interests, which are of public interest first of all in ensuring that the individual expresses his will freely, without distraction and without influence, and secondly, that the state, the state, will ensure the functioning of a prerogative that will have cohesion and security. The regulations that are being implemented here have unfortunately ignored all those countries which have achieved very progressively, which regulate them in the same direction, but by ensuring what the Strasbourg tribunal has asked for. I am thinking in particular of the French legislation, which I consider to be extremely progressive - it is a 2016 law - which allows a gender change with a statement made by the person concerned and which then gives rise to a judicial decision. This statement shall be made by a person who is an adult or a man-made minor, i.e. a minor who has been accepted to be detained on the basis of a judicial decision, provided that three elements are met, the three elements recognised by lawyers in the terms of ‘nomen’, ‘tractatus’ and ‘fama’. ‘Nomen’ means that the person of transgender must already have accepted and announce for himself a name of the opposite sex. "tractatus" means that this person must already be known in his own environment, in his own environment, in his own family, in his own environment, in his professional environment as a person of the other sex. The "fama" means that this change must have been accepted from its environment, so that its environment recognises it as a person of the other sex. These conditions are not cumulative. In other words, it may be the main of them, and not all of them together. And the court comes, the French Court of First Instance, to establish, on the basis of evidence presented by all means, that these conditions are met, in particular, - I repeat, not cumulatively - and then, on the basis of a substantial crisis of gender change, which must not be made again in the other direction. It's final. Unfortunately, the government has chosen a completely different path here, with a simple statement made by the individual, which does not ensure that the real will of the individual is expressed in his statement. This is much more, if you want, obvious to minors, to those who are 17 years old or to those who are 15 years old. There is a real problem, which we cannot ignore. When a child has a gender problem, the problem is real and we understand it. We also understand that the parents of the child, the child itself and the society surrounding it have every reason and every interest in this matter being resolved as quickly as possible. However, this safeguarding of the possibility of the peace of the child and of his family must be guaranteed at the same time and with the certainty that the will of the child is expressed without too much influence on his environment. This in a 15-year-old cannot be done for two reasons: First, because the child hasn't grown up enough in him. We know from psychiatry that around eighteen, nineteen, even twenty, at the end of adolescence, it suppresses the individual for who he really is for his identity. Secondly, it cannot be done without finding out - a psychodiagnostic finding, not medical in the sense of aid or change - which the European Court of Human Rights accepts and underlines that it is not forbidden. On the contrary, it must be done, so that we can have a real result. So I think we need to adopt three elements which do not exist in this bill. First, we have a psychodiagnostic procedure. Secondly, we must note that there are certain real conditions in place, similar to those laid down by French law. And thirdly, that a judicial decision which is a substantive decision and not a formal decision, such as the Greek regulation we are debating at the moment. Because today the judge, when the request comes before him, can only accept it for formal reasons. However, it cannot give rise to any judgment on the substance. However, if we had a regulation of this type, I would be happy to vote for this regulation. But, as it turns out, it is incomplete, it does not guarantee basic conditions, and that is why I will not be able to vote for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u109	Thank you, too. The Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, Mr Rabbit, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u110	I'll start by mentioning some things from an investigation. It's not Golden Dawn's. We'll just read them to see them. It's from the American Paediatric Society. So let's start off and tell them what they've done. The vast majority of children suffering from gender identity disorder - the rate even reaches 98% - is cured without any other intervention, only by the entry of the individual into puberty and the effect of natural hormones. Acknowledgement second: People undergoing these treatments have twenty-fold higher suicide rates, even in Sweden, which is the most tolerant country in all of this. Acknowledgement third: School ID courses are confusing to young students, who because of their age are prone to anything. As a consequence, more and more children are driven to 'climates of gender' and of course receive hormones, except for brainwashing that they exist. These are some of the findings of the American Paediatric Society. And we come to the main for me, which is the culmination of all this: believing that you are the opposite sex is a psychological disorder. It is called a gender identity disorder and needs psychiatric support, not drugs. And here is the essence of things. I used to know that if someone woke up some morning and made Great Napoleon, they would take him to the psychiatric hospital, sit him down and look at him. We have now reached the point where a man says that he is a woman or vice versa and that we are coming to welcome it within the Greek Parliament and, indeed, to legislate on it. What's happening is incomprehensible. In older times - not much older, a few years ago, two - three decades ago - all of this would be in the sphere of imagination. And we have come here today to legislate on these issues, without being ashamed of what we are doing, at a time when the Greek society is going through difficult situations, at a time when the Greek nation is being persecuted from everywhere, at a time when we are listening here to the intestines of the government conquering Orthodoxy. In fact, we have already heard the speaker of the ANELs agree with the Pope, but not with the Orthodoxy. Not with the Pope, you will agree, but with the aliens, if you are going to pass these laws. The things that are happening are inconceivable! And here I am going to give a small parentheses, to say that there was probably an informal agreement on this day, there was probably a beautiful agreement between SYRIZA and ANEL, because they were in trouble. Because today we are seeing the Minister of Justice, Kontonis, bring with great pleasure, into all this bulb that has been created, and the amendment to the Turkish associations they want to create in Xanthi. It is an amendment, which you have taken back into order - a few days ago. And there was the hypocritical attitude of ANELs that they supposedly react to the New Democracy. We will see today whether or not they will vote for it. I, of course, believe that they will vote for it because it is in a very difficult position. And what was the deal? Because that is what we need to say so that the Greek people wake up and understand it. Not to send Kammenos to the Committee of Inquiry, to 'roar' the whole question, to cover him by the SYRIZA Government, knowing that they have too many grievances inside and a few days later to come to this amendment. And now as by magic the ANELs have no objections! Now the ANELs agree to pass this amendment, the same amendment that 15 days ago said that it is unacceptable for national issues in our Thrace! It is the same amendment. And Contonis came today with a tone of a thousand cardinals and proud to throw it into a previous speaker, who said that this amendment is embarrassing. That's who you are! So there's no deal here? Wasn't there any specific coverage for Kammenos on this matter, or do you take us all for suckers? And because you have made some resolutions here - 'travesti' and you are going through them as they are, don't think you'll find a sucker everywhere to do these things. And don't you dare go out to Greek society. There you can't be released, you won't be able to go anywhere. Also, we must stress that it is not possible for a percentage - as the SYRIZA rapporteurs have said before - that I will say it once again 0.001% - so said the SYRIZ rapporteur - to legislate, but all the parties of the "progressive" Greek Parliament, the four million Christian Orthodoxs who voted for a referendum and have collected signatures to sign up to our identities to ignore them! That's who you are, liars! And leave them now, that you are supposed to be interested in the issues and the rights of minorities. Perhaps you are interested in the problematic, you are interested in the so-called Turkish minorities, for those who say that there is a Bulgarian minority. For some of these you are interested in and not Greeks. And that's all you're going to tell the hot spots you've created. Go tell your friends Illegal immigrants that you're voting for such bills. People will laugh! So in a society that is being levelled, how selfish and how is it is to lose everything, to lose our full relationship with religion, with our Orthodoxy, to go out people who say "I have been born with men but I would like to be a woman" or vice versa, and we say that they belong to their bodies and can do what they want. Imagine what mental disorder these people are in, so they don't even want to be the sex that nature has given them. Imagine this man, who looks at nothing but his sonati - to say it popularly - what he will defend from here and beyond in his life. Will he defend principles, values, ideals? But he doesn't care about anything. She's not even interested in the sex she was born with. Can he care about other ideals? Is it possible for him to care about the common good? Is it possible to be interested in the country and nation? Of course not. They're partymates, people - I'm telling you again - who need psychiatric help. And give it to the people! But not sitting in a Greek parliament legislating about this thing! I referred to earlier, but I will say this once again in my speech, from the point of view of this: is it possible for a peace judge, a judge, to sign and a man to change and become a woman? Is it possible to have reached this point and to discuss these matters seriously in the Greek Parliament? What we are talking about is incomprehensible. However, we have arrived here and with a bureaucratic process someone from Kostas will be called "Elymbia". That would have been a lot of fun, and it would have been very comedy to say it if the tragic case were not much bigger than the comic. Because we have a comico-tragic situation in which - I repeat - the tragedy is, unfortunately, much greater than the comic. And so we see a Golden Dawn sitting alone and opposing all of these things. We see a hypocritical attitude of the Officerial Opposition, but also of the other opposition parties, some who do not vote on them. Because the New Democracy told us here, "The gender change does not take place at fifteen, but at eighteen and cannot change twice, but only once. So that's where it's differentiating. Not on the substance, but on the basis of some specific differences that need to be made. This is the disagreement of the New Democracy. Also, for at least a year there has been the voice of all opposition parties saying that this disastrous SYRIZA-ANEL conflict must fall and the country must be brought to elections. That's what all opposition parties say. Here's the big chance you're given! You're not voting on this abortion - bill, and the government has fallen. So leave the false opposition to any of your followers who can mock them. In fact, you are not making any opposition. You're voting together. And if at some point there are no so-called ANEL patriots to vote for a bill, New Democracy supports it with PASOK, Democratic Reconciliation and everything else. And when Annells see that he's passing through the others, they make the rebels. That's the reality. I repeat this once again: here is the opportunity for the government to fall at the moment, today and tomorrow to take the country to elections! And another thing: If New Democracy breaks into its garments and shouts out here that she does not accept this bill, will the representatives of this country directly tell us if they come to the government - if they come - if they take over the power will abolish this shameful bill? Tell us! But they won't. They didn't dare, because they're also fucked, and they go behind the new order of things. I have previously heard the rapporteur from Potami, Mr Mavrotas, say in a revulsion of his speech among other things, "I lifted the Greek flag..." - and his bravo who did it in struggles that took place - "... for all Greeks". Who are all the Greeks? Do we know what's going on? There are also the Greeks who burn the Greek flag. There are also Greeks who hate Greece. There are the Greeks fighting Orthodoxy. For those of the Greeks, did we raise the flag? But these Greeks, seeing the Greek flag rise proudly, go crazy, oppose and indignate. So let's keep an eye on what everyone says and let's know what's going on. For perhaps this gentleman has pure intentions, but this is not the rest of the Greek society today. Greece is under pressure from everywhere and mainly from within. There are the greatest enemies of Greece and not at our borders, the external enemies. I repeat - and I will end with this - that at a time when everything is changing, at a time when everything is fluid, at a time when it is really monstrous what is happening, imagine how 'danger' is a man who has principles, values and ideals. Imagine how "hazardous" is at such a time a man who shouts and fights for his homeland, for the blue-white, for the Orthodoxy. Imagine after so many persecutions and chase we have received, what the pressures are and how truly 'hazardous' we can be for this rotten system. We really are dangerous, because at a time when the man changes sex and becomes a woman, the woman becomes a man, the male name becomes a woman, who no one believes in anything, there are Greek patriots, there are Greek nationalists, who fight alone in the Greek Parliament, but with the involvement of too many, thousands of Greeks outside the Greek Parliament, who are fighting for home and for religion! The same will continue to do whatever the cost, whatever the price!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u111	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u112	Mrs Ahzolgos has the floor to present an amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u113	Ladies and gentlemen, the one amendment we are proposing concerns the rename, the correct designation of a resource that is currently retained by the OAED for the LEAEC account, which is the Account for Employment and Vocational Training and is subsequently attributed to the institutes of the social partners, as well as to the Hellenic Institute for Health and Safety of Labour, the National Organisation for Certification of Qualifications and Professional Guidance, etc. The problem is that, at the moment, this resource is called 'public grant', which means that beneficiaries must comply with a number of regulations in force in cases where there is State funding and there is a problem in disbursing this money, that the warrants should be approved, that is to say, in order to pay the people who work in the institutes of the social partners, and that training and employment programmes should be drawn up as they should. Under the right legal status, which now applies to the provision which we import, the true nature of the amounts attributed to it shall be restored to the extent that it is retained and attributed. I note again that these are net cases where they are employers' and workers' contributions. In other words, there is no involvement of state funding. The risk of blocking the OAED's resource management to the beneficiaries concerned is restored, thereby addressing a number of practical problems, including the inability to pay workers employed by trade unions and their institutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u114	Mr. Germenis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u115	After the coexistence pact comes SYRIZA - ANEL to legislate to facilitate transgender people, commonly transgender, so that they can make a special effort to change their sex to the registrants. This process - in order to understand the Greeks who are listening to us - will be made with a simple request in the court of peace, in full secrecy, allegedly to protect personal data, will not require any medical examination and confirmation that the mental health of the individual who wants to change sex will be ensured. The competent judge will therefore have no scientific certification, in order to be able to formulate an opinion on the application, despite the fact that the 'genus differences', which has been mentioned, has recently been recorded by the International Statistical Classification of Diseases. I mean, the judiciary, the judge in charge as a young Pilate, will wash his hands before an application by a man who wants to become a man or wants to become a woman. In other words, the position of the competent judge will be purely interoperable. He'll sign the man wide - wide if he wants to be a man or a woman. The exact causes of this disorder have not been identified and there is considerable controversy on this matter. Until recently the gender identity disorder was treated exclusively as a case of psychiatric disorder. In other words, they were attributed exclusively to psychological causes. Research into the precise identification of the causes of the gender disorder is ongoing and many research needs to be carried out in order to fully understand its exact causes. Therefore, scientifically, there is insufficient documentation regarding this disorder in contrast to the cases of ‘damaging sex’ where the causes are verified with clinical and laboratory findings and require immediate and specific handling. Once again, you slap people and you legislate like that. Therefore, the Gender ID certification, which will be necessary for minors who have completed the 15th year, will only be based on a intense and painful identification of the individual with the other gender, with unspecified causes. With the kind of education of the new Greeks as promoted by your Government, gender change is at risk of becoming a fashion. Here we all know how sensitive and particularly vulnerable young people are at new trends. You still have time to withdraw this bill. Think of it well until it is voted on. In simple terms, we note, according to the bill, that we are entering an unprecedented era of collapse of basic moral values. All this disgrace is supposed to be on the altar of defending human rights. This appeal to human rights, which you so-called left-wing candy sucks like candy to make your political specs and to be pleasurable to yourselves, plagues societies and nations all over the Western world. But you do not seem to show the same zeal when the human rights of Greek citizens are being persecuted every day because of burning issues such as insurance, health and even living. Where was the abolition of HISPIA, free health, free education? You go to public hospitals and you're at risk of a lot of infections. Many surgeons are unable to take the risk of intervening with so many shortcomings and staffing medical staff and health material. And in education there are huge gaps in educational and huge shortages in logistics, and you are only enjoying the promotion of degenerating trends, altering history's books and a religious pansperm. The government of the so-called 'first left' has proved to be a taxing government. You reduced wages and pensions, brought the electronic auctions, leaving the Greek properties on the toenails' fingernails. In short, legislate according to the old saying, not "law is the right of the worker", but "law is the right of the loan shark". When you do not legislate on this point, you bring laws of your sick idealism. Governments in our view should legislate to restructure social pathogens, based on morality. As much as some misconceive, it is undeniable that a nation’s code of morality shapes it as its history, its culture, its traditions, its religion. In Greece historical, cultural and religious elements are in favour of clear gender discrimination in male and female. After all, the principle of gender discrimination, according to the Greek Constitution in Article 4(2), guarantees the principle of equality, namely: "Greeks and Greek women have equal rights and obligations". The above position is a cornerstone for social organisation, as the highest French court recently ruled after the rejection of a request for the recognition of a neutral sex. However, it seems that you - and it has been heard by the committee - will also bring the neutral sex to a vote. However, to know that Greek citizens, regardless of political conviction, feel that such political initiatives and procedures afflict good morals. Article 5 of the Constitution, and in particular paragraph 1 thereof, expressly states: ‘Each person has the right to develop his or her personality freely and to participate in the social, economic and political life of the country, provided that he does not infringe the rights of others and does not violate the Constitution or the proper customs’. Therefore, these legislative initiatives violate and at the same time insult good habits. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will end in a minute, Mr President. However, you do not seem to be concerned. Why, anyway? You have used us not only to insulting morals, but also to insulting our intelligence. Furthermore, it is well known that you are attempting to inflame the Greek new customs that in no way match our tradition. Attack the institution of the family. So you say, with this unprecedented and dangerous provision that the 15-year-old or 15-year-old will have the right to change their sex if they produce medical advice from a special medical board. On the substance, adolescents, who may have samples of sexual disorientation, will go to their parents and announce their intention to carry out this change. However, the parents who may disagree with this choice - and rightly so in our right sense - how do you protect them? Do you not realize that there will probably be breaches in the families that may experience these situations? Do you not realize that children's life and choices work interactively both in the relationship between the couple and in the right harmony of the family? Apparently, you don't care. What if this act of the young person or young person is a revolution of puberty for which they will then regret? Legislate in the leg and completely cuffed. Your view of the institution of the family is, moreover, seen by how you tax third parties and multiples, as well as by the incentives you do not give young people to create families and to have children. We consider that children are the future of our country and nation. We clearly state our complete opposition to this legislative initiative, which is an initiative characterised by the degenerative thinking that you understand in the world. Golden Dawn urges the Greeks who hear us resist the new customs introduced by SYRIZA and ANEL and those who today vote for the bill. We defend the institution of the family and encourage young people to make families despite difficulties.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u116	Mr. Germenis, finish it up. Put it down.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u117	I shall conclude, Mr President. We, with whatever powers we have, will stand next to them, fighting for the restoration of Greek values and ideas, for socially powerful people and a new free nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u118	Mr. Mitafidis has the floor from SYRIZA. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u119	Rosa Luxemburg has left us a deposit: 'Freedom is always understood as freedom for the one who thinks otherwise'. That also applies to today's debate. However, I would like to begin with something that has been heard in this Chamber at the hearing of the bodies. It is the anguish of the group of 'Superior Parents': 'We cannot condemn a child to suffer all social exclusion with all known consequences until his seventeen years. Let us not forget the suicides experienced in adolescents especially in these cases. It is generally something that as parents we have experienced together with our children and should not allow it to continue, that is to say, spending too hard years until the school ends and suffer all of this." The years of puberty have been very difficult, because we could not convince the director, the teachers to behave with the child, as the spokesman for the 'User Parents' noted. Last week I received a call from a school, from the director of an Athenian school. A student accompanying his father appeared to renew his registration, asking to declare another sex than what his birth certificate mentioned. I think that this bill, which is neither revolutionary, but is about a category of fellow citizens who have suffered the most barbaric discrimination, comes despite its great delay - and not for reasons due to the current government - to meet a real need. ‘Toys, inventions to score our time, irrationality and unscientific separation of gender characteristics with gender identity, formation of emblemed identities on the basis, for example, of gender to form additional obstacles to the realisation of class identity.’ The first part, as you know, is part of Archbishop Jerony's statements. The second, unfortunately, is from the representative of the JRC. It is known that any free dogma and regime can invoke what it wants, but what a verb, too? - their hypocrisy. These positions point to perceptions, unshakable, but also perforated, if judged by what scientific research reveals, which we have heard in all numbers and falls, particularly by the representative of the JRC. In Europe, but also in other corners of the world, strict guardians of Christian values are in panic when they are exposed to cases of the seduction of minors by adult priests, as you know, in court. I would also remind you of what happened with fascists and nazis, the slaughter of homosexual national Socialists by the Hitlerians, who were nothing but ashes in the eyes for their unnecessarily coexistence and mutual assistance with the Papal Church. The last, of course, many years later discovered the Holocaust, not only of the Jews, of course, but of the German communists, homosexuals and Roma, after a celebration as always. In another "parason", the Stalinist, homosexuality was penalized, despite the fact that the October Revolution, whose hundred years were completed this year and whose lessons are necessary, had legalized the right to the choice of a sex partner. In 1930, I read from the Great Soviet Encyclopedia, Serajski, a medical expert, writes: "Soviet law does not recognize so-called crimes against morality. Our laws are governed by the principle of the protection of society and therefore allow punishment only in cases where young minors are sexually exploited." Of course, three years later, during the prevalence of stalinism, homosexuality is again being criminalised. I mention a characteristic example: in 1974 he was arrested for the second time - he had been arrested for the first time in 1968 - a well-known Soviet director, Armenian origin, Sergey Parajanov - has given us this masterpiece work: 'The shadows of forgotten ancestors' - will, please, be sentenced to five years in jail for homosexuality and released one year later, thanks to international reactions. [[Noise in the Chamber]] And I want to close...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u120	We're in the October revolution.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u121	And we're moving slowly!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u122	What happened? Are there parallel speeches underneath?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u123	Of course, we have comments. It bothers them, as always, the October Revolution report. These reports I made in history, ladies and gentlemen, I think they are very useful, especially to our left-wing critics, are supposed to have taken on the role of the Left Public Prosecutor and every time we are privatized by the world's designations. So we are responding to a real social need, which we are treating today with the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u124	Thank you, too, for respecting time. Mr. Georgiadis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u125	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good luck, I am succeeding in Stepping up my colleague Mr Mitafidis, who has made a very teaching speech on how homosexuality was criminalised in Stalin. He fantasizes one of the Stalinist crimes. See how life brings them, Minister! The SYRIZA MP told you that you fought this summer so you wouldn't go to the conference in Estonia and acknowledge Stalin's crimes. Like he knew! For you, he was introduced. So let us see what we have learned from Mr Medafides, who is indeed well-known in this House, because he defends the Moroccan regime. I don't know if you found out. Madour succeeded in the asbestos. He put Capital Controls, and he has his own currency. This is where you told us in our own currency you cannot become a capital control. Madour did that, too. With its own currency, Capital Controls. I say it to understand how your dreams and fantasies lead to tragedies. One of these dreams is this bill, Minister. Let's go, Minister, let's see it all along. First of all, we are blaming you, and I myself very much, for terrible hypocrisy - I see Mrs Giannakaki there - for terrible hypocrisy. You are supposed to come here and legislate, because you are interested in the human rights of transgenders, whom you would like to protect, as Mr Lappas said before in his objection of unconstitutionality with a very transparent style, of their human rights. Excuse me, what do these people really want and what are you going to regulate with such a kind of bill that these people are supposed to be of interest to you? Their smooth social integration, that's what you're supposed to do. Their normal social integration, Minister, is served when you manage to make a bill of first political importance in Greece, between Government, Church, Opposition, Independent Greeks and anyone else? Of course not. Of course not! These people could hope for a smooth social integration, as we would all like, if you had succeeded in having a bill today that would achieve consensus and low tone. But you didn't care about it anywhere. For you made the bill as left as you could, to satisfy your internal party audience and to balance the celebrations to privatize the Greek on the one hand with the supposed defending of the rights of transgenders. So, Mr. Kontonis, this is where the word of our Lord Jesus Christ is worthy of "we are phenomenal hypocrites". You're not interested in them and their human rights at all. Your niggas care on the left. That's the point.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u126	For internal problems you must look at at your party.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u127	We are now going to what we have heard before. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Mr President, I cannot speak. They speak ten at the same time underneath. I'm stopping. Protect me at last. I'm looking for protection, too. What can we do?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u128	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u129	We heard Mr Papachristopoulos of the Independent Greeks saying that they are "comical reactions to the bill". Well, I really kept it. In other words, at least two of his colleagues from the Group of Independent Greeks, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos and Mr Katsikis, described them as a comedy. That his two colleagues of the Independent Greeks react to something comic. However, Mr Papachristopoulos did not have a reasonable explanation to explain why the Independent Greeks until a week ago publicly stated in the House, in the committees and everywhere that they were opposed to this bill and suddenly discovered how important a piece of legislation it is. What changed in a week? Evidently, the coverage of Mr. Tsipras provides Mr. Kammenos on the subject of Yannusakis, on the subject of Marinakis, on the issue of roulette and casino. There is no doubt about that. It also understands the country's last coffee shop that there is a political exchange. Be careful, though, that's interesting. There's a prefecture, you know, in the universe, which looks from above and makes us a little fun. Panos Kammenos decided to abstain from discussing. Yes, he did the deal with Tsipras and the Independent Greeks from "no" went to "yes", but Panos Kammenos himself disappeared. He doesn't want to be on the dashboard. Watch where he went! He went to Brazil to strengthen our defence cooperation with Brazil, Minister. I would remind you that Brazil is the country most likely to have gender-change operations. Nor did he have it set to go to Brazil in this bill to hide Panos Kammenos who sold all voters to save himself from roulette and casino! Let's go to the last one. Church: I read too many articles - you will allow me to say - racistly against the Church of Greece about how the Church dared express an opinion on this bill. In other words, we live in a country where they can express an opinion on the issues we are all discussing, we respect the human rights of transgenders - and we do well, I say to you - but we deny the right to the Church, to a Orthodox hierarch, to the Holy Synod, to express an opinion primarily on matters relating to it, namely the matters of faith. I hear the unmistakable argument, ladies and gentlemen, that: "Let the other parties now under fear of the Church..." - that is, for the votes - "they change their attitude and they will be carefully, so as not to put them with the Church", that we believe - and certainly since we are Orthodox Christians and believe that, in the first place, we respect the views of the Church, because we are members of this Church as Orthodox Christians - we are interested in the votes, and you who are proclaimed atheists most, who Mr. Tsipras himself has said in an interview that he is an atheist, went to Mount Athos - now they have not allowed him to go, fortunately - and he remains - ten minutes with the image of himself. Do you remember that? I mean, I'm sorry: I'm an Orthodox Christian, if I respect the Church's view, I'm doing it for the votes, and Tsipras, a declared atheist, who went ten minutes and stayed with the picture of the Virgin Mary, in which he doesn't believe, does it for the votes, but why did he see the light? Who are you kidding? You are atheists and you have no right as atheists to talk about the Church. For the Church to speak, we who respect and love her. You have no business with the Church. So to finish, since you are atheist, to support it, not to be atheist here and to go your Chief to the Holy Spirit feast and leave the dove. They're not both done, gentlemen! If you're an atheist, Mr. Contonis, get out and defend it. Not with the ranger and the constable, according to the old proverb. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So to close, Mr President, the New Democracy has tabled its own proposals. The proposals of the New Democracy are in line with the latest judgment of the European Court of Human Rights. There is no reason for our country to go beyond this decision. There is no reason for our country to begin over this decision. We have tabled our views, and this is a glorious field, if you are seeking the consent and the real protection of these people, to accept them. But you won't. Do you know why? Because if you do, you will miss the opportunity to have a left hand and play. It's your game. We've ruined it. Only play with Kammenos and the Independent Greeks, who at the bottom of the script have a roulette to carry on their shoulders. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u130	Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u131	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u132	Mr President, I am not going to have a theological debate with Mr Georgiadis on the issues he raised on the Sacred Synod, atheist, etc. I'd just like to explain a few things to him. Mr Georgiadis, as Mr Mitafidis said earlier, we are with the October Revolution. We're not with Stalin!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u133	We know. We've got it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u134	This was understood even by the Estonian Members and we were congratulated on a letter. You here in the Greek Parliament, do you understand that? After all, from the Estonians, I didn't expect them to know so much that you don't know. Do you not know that since 1968 there has been a party in this country, the Communist Party of Greece Inner, which has fought for socialism with freedom, democracy and humanity and that it has been this party which has defended the mobilisations throughout Europe for democratic and human rights? We have therefore said nothing more than that communism and socialism are a liberatory ideology, which has been discredited in those years of the Stalinist derogation, which is also a right-wing derogation, because in addition to everything else, it puts production relations above social relations. But these are fine letters for you. You have stereotypes,'standardism and communism is one'. Well, since 1968 everyone knows that this is not the case, at least in our country.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u135	Thank you, Minister. Mr Theocharopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u136	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u137	What for?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u138	Something has been said about our President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u139	No, you don't have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u140	We need to put some things in order.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u141	Personnel shall not be represented.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u142	Mr President, I would like the floor for ten seconds. He said my name.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u143	No, there's the notion of enthusiasm between colleagues. You don't have the floor. Mr. Theocharopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u144	Mr. President, I would like...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u145	You'll take the floor later and you'll answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u146	Now I have to give the answer, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u147	It's a shame not to give him the floor! Mr President, we want to answer!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u148	Mr. Lazarides, you'll get the floor later. Mr. Theocharopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u149	Mr President, thank you. Perhaps the ANE spokesman will also be able to reply, because there will be other positions on this matter. Ladies and gentlemen, the legal recognition of gender identity is an important issue on the human rights list. The issue we are discussing today is only a step towards the elimination of discrimination and the safeguarding of fundamental rights for transgender and inter-governmental persons. Our country, however, needs more, faster steps and more direct reflexes to protect human rights. There are no delays in modernising the legislative framework, unconscious or conscious silence and caging in stereotypes that maintain prejudices and depreciation behaviour in Greece. It must finally be made quite clear that legal recognition of gender identity is a self-evident right of a group of people. The establishment of the gender correction procedure in the registry and in the official documents of transgender people, in order to identify the gender identity according to how they identify themselves and not after surgery, is self-evidently a progressive change, based on the conditions set out in the draft law. The specific change that we are adopting today is a step forward in stopping the violation of human and individual rights of a group of people who suffer racism, psychological violence and many times physical, intolerance, prejudice and other behaviours that are incompatible with the rule of law. This is a change in line with a set of rules, laws, reports and European resolutions that I do not need to analyse. They've already been mentioned several times. That is why we support and vote at the outset the draft law on the legal recognition of gender, just as we voted on the coexistence agreement and the possibility of building a mosque for the exercise of religious freedoms, i.e. all cases of defending basic human rights. The defence of these rights, enshrined in most European countries, is a basic principle of our own space. Ladies and gentlemen, the parties' reactions to this bill are revealing, both to the SYRIZA Government - ANEL and to the New Democracy. Mr. Tsipras, in the most unequivocal way, made it clear that he has addressed his partner, Mr. Kammenos. In the Thessaloniki International Exhibition he described him as "patriotic centre-rights". Once again, however, it turns out that the SYRIZA-ANEL conflict was not on the basis of any programming agreement. What about what's going on? Mr. Tsipras personally covered Mr. Kammenos so that he could not be examined. In exchange, the vote of the Independent Greeks was changed at the beginning for the identity of the sex. That's what happened and they've all figured it out. So human rights are at the altar of destiny, by a government which is presented without a set of principles and values, which will be of relevance. "I covered you yesterday, you vote today." That's the logic not to lose the chair. This is cynicism, ladies and gentlemen of power. [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] Do you want me to tell you again? That's cynicism!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u150	You said that you would not vote at first, if we do not have a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u151	Changing your vote one day, changing your Prime Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u152	Who changed it?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u153	The ANELs and your Prime Minister, Mr. Contony.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u154	Has the Prime Minister changed his vote? What do you think?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u155	To come here the day before, to support the Committee of Inquiry and the next day to change the vote of the Independent Greeks?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u156	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u157	Do you ever hear of that for the first time? Can you hear it from me? Now? That's actually what happened.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u158	The Independent Greeks vote consciously!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u159	I am the first to support this bill. I have nothing to say to you - neither a sterile opposition tactic to you nor any empathy. But I'm telling you this because it actually happened. Your reactions are revealing.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u160	And you said you wouldn't vote...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u161	We, ladies and gentlemen, will continue to denounce this hypocrisy. At the same time, however, we will not let inequalities and discrimination continue in our country against minorities and vulnerable social groups. Before I go any further and say about this bill, Minister, I would like to say this because you challenged me before about the history of the area. Because the New Democracy does not know, it did not have anything to do with the Internal JV itself and with the renewing left. Can I tell you something, Mr. Contony? What does your government have to do with the refreshing left? What does your policies on the rule of law have to do with this? What does your ministers have to do with it? May I give you specific names of Ministers? Not to tell you about your co-government. Can I tell you about specific names of ministers who, in their behaviour, have nothing to do with the principles and values of the refreshing left? Therefore, of course, these authorities, which have not taken into account the political costs - and that is true, and that is why we must not look at the political costs in such procedures - have not been followed by your own space, especially in the context of the government, because you are now judged by the governance of the place. This bill, however, also became the reason for the personalities not only fall of the coup d'état, but also of the New Democracy, which willingly collaborated with representatives of these organisations, commits that it will support them in their vote and then cannot avoid its extreme conservative payments. The New Democracy proves today that it does not change. It remains a deeply conservative force which does not accept either the self-evident changes in the defence of fundamental human rights in most European countries. I do not go into commenting on the submission of separate proposals from the New Democracy, with the obvious aim of avoiding a vote on the bill. The world is bored, ladies and gentlemen of the government and of the Officerial Response, by tactics and toys. To speak clearly at last. We are conserved in many policies. I have heard before the Vice-President of the New Democracy, Mr Georgiadis, whose line was dominated by what appears in the New Democracy. It is a pity, however, because you are also showing to the New Democracy that you are abstaining from a European liberal party on this issue of human rights. Of course, to be honest, we are confronted with the conservation of other parties in the Greek Parliament, parties that believe that the legal recognition of gender, the adaptation to the rulings of the European Court of Justice "insults patriotism and the religious mind of the vast majority of the people". What are we really listening to? Europe's karts. It can't be done! We can't be Europeans a kart. Apart from regularism, political games, today's debate in the House reveals something deeper: that in the end ideological differences are not just the ones about who is "the friend of the people" and who is not. Many people hide in this distinction. But it is also about an unpopular agenda, which concerns issues of nationalism, racism and rights. Where fantasy prevails in political correctness, where discrimination, hatred and conservatism defeat the truth. Today, therefore, there is a serious distinction that goes beyond even that of the Left with the Right, the existing distinction between the Left and the Right. It is the distinction between open and closed society. We in practice prove that we are in favour of open society. The ANELs once again prove that it is a party with anachronistic positions, which, of course, you can, ladies and gentlemen, only change to protect your President from the procedure of the committee of inquiry. SYRIZA runs with this party. That's all he says. Of course, what about the Conservation of the New Democracy? Mr Mitsotakis, unlike the majority of the Members of the New Democracy, voted for the cohabitation agreement when he was not the leader of his party and was a brave move for your space. Today the majority of the New Democracy are imposing its position on the President now, Mr Mitsotakis, who is not voting. The leaderships, however, should not be guided by their parties, but guided. That's too bad! Those of the social liberal citizens who watched you with interest today are really disappointed by this conservative attitude. The masks are now down for everyone. Contrary to Mr Tsipras, who has dealt with Mr Kammenos and Mr Mitsotakis, who has in practice been treated with conservative positions, we are firmly in favour of our own progressive positions with the defence of fundamental human rights. That is what we are doing. The citizens, ladies and gentlemen, and in particular the progressive citizens, want solutions and even if they are shocked at the start, which is perfectly normal because every new one is surprised and every change encounters a self-protecting resistance, at the end they process and accept the self-evident need, namely to protect diversity. The bill is undoubtedly in the right direction and is an essential step towards the elimination of discrimination and the abuse of the rights of transgender people. Nevertheless, as has already been said, the bill remains fragmentary, since it is not dealt with in depth and several other issues, such as linking legal gender identification to the external image. There are serious doubts as to whether the external appearance as an element to be considered abolishes self-determination by cultivating ground for prejudice and possible arbitrage. Let me mention what the report of the Scientific Office of the Parliament says, although I am sure you are aware of it, Minister. ‘Gender expressions’ therefore appear to be more comprehensive than the external image of the person. That is what the report of the Scientific Office of the Parliament itself says. The phrase ‘sex expression’ was first used in the Directive of the European Union of 2012, the European Parliament and the Council establishing a change in standards on rights and is more appropriate. I say this to mention not only our position on these issues, but also the position expressed by the Scientific Service of Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, let us be clear and honest. The bill is one step, but we're still at the beginning. The road is long. Even if there were any related improvements in the bill, the daily life of these people would not automatically change. A comprehensive and comprehensive support is needed, which will not, for example, leave job and vocational training opportunities aside, as well as support at the level of citizens' education for a change of attitude, which will lead to a truly modern and progressive society. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that the bill we are debating is a step towards overcoming discrimination which, in many countries of Europe and in general the Western world, has already taken place. The Democratic Alliance has a stable position on human rights, as is my firm position that we must legislate away from the logic of a dead-end political cost and the logic of hetero-determination. This does not mean, however, that we will not continue to denounce the hypocrisy of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. Legal recognition of gender identity is a self-evident change in a European country and is our key position in defending rights. Such progressive changes must proceed and not burn on the altar of any tactical. Our attitude is constantly serving the change of attitudes and the elimination of pathogens in our country. We voted on the coexistence agreement, we voted on the right to exercise religious freedoms, and so will we. We are not hiding behind excuses because of political costs, as other parties do. We do not sacrifice principles and values stable for us. Our attitude does not allow for concessions, but a constant fight for rights and the vision of an open society depressed by fearful perceptions, a society that ensures social cohesion.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u162	The Minister has the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u163	Mr President, I have asked for the floor despite the fact that the parliamentary representative of the Democratic Integration is in favour of the bill, because he raised two issues which are ethical issues and I want them not to be left unresolved. This bill, ladies and gentlemen, was scheduled to be passed in July. In view of the commitments made by the country with a large number of legislative issues, to close the second assessment, it was transferred. If it had been voted, Mr. Theocharopoulos - I tell you in good faith - in July, would you talk about a transaction? Secondly and fundamentally, since 21 June, the government had taken a stand on the famous telephone conferences of the Minister of National Defence and we had placed it boldly before the House and said that there is no reason for further. Because man did nothing more than urge a citizen, who said he had evidence, to give them to justice. This has happened since 21 June. Why do you connect them today? Because the bill came from time to time? Let me ask you something that's much more serious. Have the ANELs been voiced, do you have a party statement - because Members and today are opposed, people have said so - to vote against the bill in principle? Do you have a statement from them? And they changed their attitude? That's what you said here today. So please be a little more precise on these issues. On the other point you raised, that the masks, etc., have fallen, in this pompous way you use, to tell you this. Your party in the committee said that they would not vote for the bill if the Annell did not vote for it. So you understand the parliamentary dialogue, so you do micro-political games at the expense of the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure? And you blame others? You are right to blame the New Democracy today and we will see you and we have already told it. But what did you do? You did the worst. You said 'I agree, but I do not vote for it, because we do not know what Annell will do'. That was your attitude. Not a micro-party, but a cafeteria. And the last one. Mr Theocharopoulos, we do not deprive anyone of the right to speak on behalf of the renewing left if he thinks he can do so. Do you want to do it? Do it. Just because you have chosen to be at PASOK, leave this to those who manage and have a historic route on the refreshing left. So don't insult history other than others.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u164	Mr. Panayotarus has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u165	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u166	You don't have the floor, Mr. Theocharopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u167	Then you will give me the floor, Mr President, because you have not given me the opportunity to answer the Vice-President of the New Democracy. Then I want the floor for half a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u168	Whenever you want to take the floor as a parliamentary representative, Mr Lazarides.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u169	Wait a minute for an answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u170	Mr President, please allow me to reply to the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u171	Here, Mr. Theocharopoulos, you have the floor for half a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u172	Two minutes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u173	Not two minutes. You don't have two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u174	Mr President, I am a parliamentary representative of the Democratic Alliance and has asked questions. I need two minutes to answer, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u175	Here you go, Mr. Theocharopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u176	Minister, I have indeed heard with surprise your position and the attack on a party, the Democratic Compact, which has told you that today, as in other bills, you will have the attitude that SYRIZA did not have in many bills when it was in Anti-Population. I don't go into that logic, though. I'll tell you in particular. I spoke very clearly. I told you that the ANLLs came to the committees and said they would not vote on rights issues, as did the amendment on the European Court of Human Rights. He said that clearly, he was placed in the committees.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u177	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u178	Minister, you learn to listen.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u179	What lies are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u180	Mr President, the Minister is not listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u181	Minister, listen. Go on, Mr. Theocharopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u182	The ANELs, Mr President, have clearly been put to the committees and have said that they do not vote on any human rights issues. The Prime Minister then came here to plenary and covered them in the committee of inquiry. The next morning there was the statement by the Independent Greeks that they will finally vote on issues of gender and human rights. That's the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u183	Mr. Theocharopoulos, finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u184	Mr President, two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u185	You said that in your speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u186	What Commission did they say?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u187	In the Commission's debate...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u188	It is not possible now to say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u189	Let me talk. Mr President, I will ask for more time as long as I am entitled. The Minister must learn to listen.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u190	Good, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u191	Learn to speak truths, not lie.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u192	It is true that you are not saying and afflicting the world, Minister, and in the rule of law and in all matters.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u193	You're lying.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u194	I'm returning all the characterizations. They've been calling you, too, once you express your government, and your government.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u195	Get us the A.L.A.'s statement that they don't vote for the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u196	You'll get answers as much as you yell. On the issue of the attitude of the Democratic Integration, we have passed all the bills here on human rights, Minister. All of it! And we have said that we would give and give - I was here in Parliament - a message to society to understand that these bills are going through by our vote. If you consider this micro-party tactic and not this transaction between your party and the Independent Greeks, then society really does not understand you. Mr President, to conclude, I would like to speak about the space of the renewing left. In fact, Minister, all you will not tell us is that you are the representative of the renewing left in this government of yours.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u197	But we'll tell you, of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u198	I accept the right to self-determination. But policies characterize you. Respect the spaces when you talk. The PASOK and the Democratic Left and various other forces are reconstructing the centre-left space. In these, you have respect, because democracy requires...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u199	The refreshing left is not centre-left...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u200	Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u201	Here, Mr Lazarides, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u202	Thank you, Mr President. Previously, he asked the Vice-President of the New Democracy where our President, Panos Kammenos, is. He's on a scheduled trip and he's away. This debate was to be held on Thursday, if you remember, Minister. It was scheduled for Thursday and not today. Extremely came in today. On the contrary, the Vice-President of the New Democracy should have answered us because the President of the New Democracy, Kyriakos Mitsotakis, has escaped the debate that took place on the request for a committee of inquiry, which was not even to vote. That is what we want an answer. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u203	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u204	Here you go, Minister, for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u205	In what I said, I didn't get an answer from Mr. Theocharopoulos. I told him that this bill was planned to be passed in July. If he had been voted on in July, would he have had any trade issues? It would have been a transaction - I tell you - if ANLL had said that they would not vote for it and, finally, for reasons you judge and project it, they are voting on it. So, Mr. Theocharopoulos, there is no transaction. The ANEL party said its opinion on the principle and on the articles and transactions there is no. That's the first thing to get this straight. Do we agree on that? I guess we agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u206	Don't hold a dialogue, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u207	We don't agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u208	You don't agree. What do you want to tell me, Mr. Theocharopoulos? I stressed that the government had raised the issue with the Minister of National Defence since 21 June. Is there a transaction? Did we associate our position with the adoption of a bill? You say this just to say something conspiracy, that it is wrong, to invent something. So say without many words that you are voting for the bill and leave it all behind, Mr. Theocharopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u209	Minister, please address this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u210	The others are the front for you to hide from what you told the committee, which we remember and for which complaints had been filed against your party.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u211	Thank you. Mr. Panayotarus has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u212	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, you have not yet voted for the bill and you have begun to implement it. You shared an amendment, which in the end says "Athens, October 6, 2017, the Director-General, George Boutos". You're incapacitated! I give it to the Minutes for the further. [[At this point, the Member, Ilias Panagiotaros, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Minister, I would like to say something else, because you were talking about 1968, about what the Interior CC was doing then, etc. In 1989, you were not in parade with, I don't know, which youth in North Korea Kim Young Eun's grandfather - or what they call - they kill their homosexuals with anti-aircraft, cutting them in the middle? Or am I wrong, Mr. Minister, to know what's going on?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u213	You're wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u214	I'm not making any mistakes. You were in North Korea and you had a parade. Because the only parades you liked doing were with the communist youths and gay parade, because the rest of you despised them and hate them. We are listening to the classifications of all kinds of left-wing, communists, the refreshing left, the Democratic Left, the centre-left and others. Let's see what your idol said, Che Guevara - we're going to testify this in the Minutes too - for homosexuals when they were taken to various concentration camps in Cuba, Castro. He had a sign from the outside saying, "The job will make you men" etc. I also put this in the Minutes for the further, to see the hypocrisy of the Left, where you become humanists, butt card stalinics, but curt anything else. [[At this point, the Member, Ilias Panagiotaros, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] When the country is literally lost due to demographics, which are tragic, the population is falling so much, with geometric progress, you with everything you have voted on through the memoranda are crushing the institution of the family in any way you can and you come hypocritically and you speak of rights. You are the ones who voted together with the New Democracy and the other parties of the "constitutional arch", as you say, the nationality of anyone who is smuggling into our country, you voted for the mosques, you voted for the symphony, you voted, you voted, today you are voting together, regardless of whether you are shouting and fighting with each other. The most beautiful thing is that while you are being cut off for rights, as you say, refugees - the illegal immigrants we say - you have literally done them not to say what, which is why you are being criticised and laughed at by everyone. You have them and you are stacking them and you do not know what is happening to you, while you have received billions of euros from everywhere on these specific issues. We heard SYRIZA's rapporteur say, among other things, the commitment that SYRIZA has to one category of our fellow citizens and was referring to both racism and intolerance - something we have heard from everyone - at the expense of them. What is happening right now and right now is that racism and intolerance are at the expense of Greek citizens and no one else. We have heard the SYRIZA rapporteur comment on childhood and rights. We answer: To have childhood and to have children there should be families. You, with all that you are voting on, whether indirectly or in a direct way, are the disappearance of the Greek family. We have heard many rapporteurs and speakers, those who agree with this bill, say that there are many final rulings in Greece or that there is the European Convention on Human Rights. In fact, with the thousands of final court rulings in favour of borrowers at the expense of banks, why do you not do anything at all and throw them in the bucket of unusable people and deal with ten - twelve, which have to do with completely specific people? The European Convention on Human Rights also mentions many things, such as the fact that people who are unable to fulfil their obligations should not be arrested and imprisoned. You are doing exactly the opposite to our homeland, where we see with the Act of Friday to get out of prison rapists, murderers, pedophiles or anything else and to remain inside various people who are obliged to the state. You spoke of individual rights and we say that you are hypocrites. Because there are too many of our fellow citizens who did not want to receive AMCA for religious reasons, but you did not allow them to do so. For illegal immigrants, however, you have passed laws and amendments so that without AMKA can be treated and treated and find work or anything else. You were, you were, and you'd be hypocrites. You are, as you say, smuggling the amputation. And if you see who first takes the lead in the various events and gatherings of SYRIZA executives, you will see various types or impressions that have some holes to the cheeks, the nose, the eyes, the mouth, the mouth, they have been cut out so that they are their fashion and talk about amputation. You talk about extremising mutilation, you defending illegal immigrants, sunnits, Islamists, those who cut hands, legs, flea heads! That's totally hypocritical. We heard Mr. Contonis talking about the suicides of some people from the bowling. In fact, with the thousands who have killed themselves - Mr Contonis is now missing - what is happening, Mr Contonis? They don't have a soul? Their families don't have a soul? Just yesterday an air force officer killed himself! And move on. You spoke several of you about respect. Except that respect, ladies and gentlemen, of SYRIZA, ANEL and other democratic forces, is won, enforced or legislated. What picture can we have for the trans people we heard about? You alone in your actions do not give the right to a third to respect them, because you defend with nails and teeth the various immoral gay parade, where the various "pasper-suckers" jump and humiliate any homosexual who has a relative dignity. All you keep in mind in the back of your mind for little children is this here - and we put it in the Minutes - because these happen in gay parade. [[At this point, the Member, Ilias Panagiotaros, presents for the minutes the above photograph, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] This is your dream, so to create a society, remorseful, immoral, bold. As for the New Democracy, it will vote on the substance. That is why we are sure, because five over, five down, now a year of age difference does not say anything. You do not have the courage to admit openly, clearly and clearly that you agree on the substance with everything that SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks bring. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Allow me, Mr President, to continue for a while. Do you know why you don't do that? Because your base is overwhelmingly opposite everything you vote for and you feed them with hay, with spoon - and I don't know what else - and you try to convince them that it's not what things look like, but it's completely different. We heard you talk about the Church as well. Yes, the hypocrites are the atheists, the hypocrites are both the massons and all those on the one hand who say otherwise and on the other are doing other things. Mr Kaklamanis also spoke before, when he was President-in-Office, about the need for a formula to be given free treatment to all those who want to make a gender change, because there is not that in our home country. Yeah? With the vast majority of Greek citizens who do not have insurance information because they owe and have no free care, what happens? Nothing for them. They're in the well! Among the Independent Greeks, the speaker said, among other things, that a break between SYRIZA and ANEL does not exist. Yeah, because your train crashed into the chair and you're hooked there and you're not leaving. Science is clear for both minors and adults. I am presenting to the Minutes what the Paedophiliac Society of Greece says, to see what also applies from a scientific point of view. [[At this point, the Member, Ilias Panagiotaros, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Let's not talk about the problems of everyday life that some of you are trying to degenerate. As far as sport is concerned, the speaker of the river came out and said "but there is a formula". A man may have been made by a woman, but in sport he will remain a man or a woman, depending on what he is. But then, on your own, you're ignoring yourself. As regards the military, pension, or divorces, or even simpler things, how many toilets will the shops have to have in some time? Men, women, neutrals, offspring, or something?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u215	Please, Mr. Colleague, it's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u216	And within everything - I will end - you will also bring the amendment to the Xanthi Turkish Union. Perhaps the whole debate was the window to pass this very serious amendment, which is much more serious than we are discussing at the moment. One and one are two. Finally, whatever laws you vote for, you know that nothing is normal from anything you bring. You are trying to dismantle the sacred triple - religion - family, but because God has done his work well, he has made the man and woman and the only almighty on earth is God and nature, whatever you do, you will fail. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u217	Mr. Koutsubas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u218	Ladies and gentlemen, during today's debate there was a systematic but failed effort on the part of SYRIZA - and lastly, listening to the Parliamentary Representative of Democratic Independence - to make political separation - for reasons of political and communication - that, on the one hand, 'we are the progressives' and on the other, 'we are the conservatives', 'we who are protecting individual rights, are defenders, and you, the side here, who ignore the needs of the people and their individual rights'. It is a hypocritical attitude - I would say - much more when it is evident - that I think they saw it by reading the bill - from the bill itself that it refers to provisions of 1976, 1979, 2007 and 2013, where on the New Democracy side its interest in both individual rights and the protection of all the people of this society is proved. Of course there is one particular issue at the moment, and that is this issue: is there a social problem? There is. Can this social problem be dealt with only legally? With this legislative initiative, I think, once again, the government is sceptical and, for reasons of communication, dangerously bringing these provisions, which could be said to have been able to solve the problems in a society that is constantly evolving, but unfortunately it is also causing new problems. I believe that this move of the government and this attempt to separate us into conservative and progressive fall into the void is a failed effort. I accept what is said on the part of both the parliamentary representative - and I say this personally, because I am speaking at the moment as a Member - but also of SYRIZA, and yes, I declare that I am conservative, that I am right when I protect society, when I have a constitutional obligation to protect the family, childhood and motherhood. Yes, I am in that sense conservative and right-wing, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Apart from that, however, let us see what we want to achieve through this bill, what the government is trying to achieve. At a difficult time for Greek society, it is trying to disorientate public opinion, to shift the political agenda. And, I would say, up to a point, ladies and gentlemen, that I personally recognise it again, so as not to take the weight of my resignation - it succeeds. You do, Mr. Contonis, but do you know how long? So you know how long it works? By noon tomorrow, when the debate on the bill comes to an end. Then society will return to its real problems. To date you and Maximus will be pleased that you have achieved the disorientation of public opinion. From that point on, the issue will be forgotten, because it is a matter to which you have tried to give greater weight not to the one it has, but to the one that we had to show as a legislative body. Because society - but you are pretending - has identified it, thought about it, surrounded it and does not deal with it in ways that you want to say. I will conclude, ladies and gentlemen, with a few comments - points of view, which I am surprised to hear and have to mention, a distinguished supreme judge, to tell you beyond the clipboard of the bill which is dangerous. There are provisions of the Constitution which tell us: Article 21(1) that "the family as the foundation of the maintenance and promotion of the nation, as well as marriage, maternity and childhood, are under the protection of the state". It is what I told you earlier that I have a constitutional obligation to protect society and the family. The provision puts marriage and family under the protection of the State as two distinctive institutions. Marriage is only the association of men and women and is neither meant to be described nor regulated by law or other provision of an institution as marriage agreements, particularly of the same sex. The provision of the Constitution does not exclude or impose a law - it was clear, you are right - to regulate such agreements. But not that can be described as marriage. You will notice that in the last two paragraphs I have used the word marriage. Where am I taking it? I'll take it to the dangerous. The family, how does the Constitution define it? Family are husbands, companions with children without marriage, or husbands with marriage and children. That's the concept of family under the Constitution, unless we've changed the Constitution. I don't know if you've changed it the last five months I've been gone and I don't know about it. If you've changed it, then you're right, you're right. And there is, of course, Article 5(1), Minister, who says about the rights of the free development of personality and participation in the social, economic and political life of the place. Indeed, we must protect the personality of man, but, as the Constitution says, under certain limitations: since it does not insult the rights of others and does not violate the Constitution and the good manners. Do you have that in mind? See where we're going. And of course, it is contrary to proper customs and the legal association of persons of the same sex that is regulated as marriage is constitutionally unacceptable. And Mr. Kontonis will say, "But what does Mr. Koutsubas say? Is it going to the wedding again? Where's he taking it?’ I'll tell you, Mr. Contony. There is also Article 2(1), in which respect for and protection of the human value is the primary obligation of the State. Where am I taking it? In Article 4(3) of the draft law. With Article 4(3), you open the door so that the cohabitation of people can become a marriage after a while and you will see that we will face problems both in the Civil Code and in the criminal provisions. In conclusion, I would like to say that it will be an institutional offender with harmful consequences for society and the family for this legislation to be the door to characterise cohabitation as a marriage and childbirth. There we will lead and be responsible for the winds you sow and reap storms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u219	Mrs. Papanatsiou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u220	I would like to support two amendments. The first is Amendment No 1271 and Amendment No 109. It has to do with the new structure to examine the orders. We are giving an extension until 31 October. In the last subparagraph of paragraph 5 of Article 17A of Law 2523/1997, as amended by Article 103(1) of Law 4485/2017, the words ‘until 30.9.2017’ shall be replaced by ‘until 31.10.2017’ and the words ‘... from 1-10-2017’ shall be replaced by ‘the provisions of this paragraph shall apply from 1 November 2017’. By then we will be ready to start the new structure. The second amendment is the general number 1272 and special number 110 and concerns the lottery. The cash prizes of the lottery, established in paragraph 1 of Article 70 of Law 4446/2016, are not confiscated, are not subject to any kind of retention and are not offset by any debts of the beneficiary to the Greek State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u221	Thank you, too. Mr. Kyriazidis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u222	Thank you, Mr President. This is not the first time that we have tried, as far as the legislature is concerned, to make the exception to become a rule, colleague, who just came down to the Step. Unsatisfactory procedural and other conditions of gender change, as promoted by the bill under discussion, creates huge legal, social and moral problems. Plasma change in the biological characteristics of a person, where the need for such change is not medically required or even certified, is not a matter relating to the protection of individual rights. If the self-determination of the person and the free development of his or her personality are constitutionally guaranteed, it is not, however, constitutionally unreasonable to ignore provisions that create a biological reality in terms of free change and sometimes trade. I must point out, above all, that there is no right in our law, in the sense that has been mentioned by many colleagues, an individual right to determine gender, for example, is reflected in the provision in Article 1455(2) of the Civil Code. As I said to the committee, gender has a normal distinction between people, which is of interest not only to individuals and to the relationships they establish, but also to the state. This is of interest to the state because the status of a particular sex is interwoven both by exercising or prohibiting the exercise of certain rights and by the legal situation of the person and the particular characteristics that generally identify it and distinguish it as the subject of the law. In this respect, it is not possible for a person, the essential legal control of which and you are abolishing, to promote the nature of the matter, as they point out to them, to promote such a nature and, indeed, to be able to make a change in the legal world where such a change does not become at least medically accredited. After all, sexual preference and lifestyle do not constitute a'sex', which all of us need to realise. Ladies and gentlemen, the courts in our country have not refused to correct the registered sex when there is an objective need to do so. In other words, when there is objective gender discomfort, the real will of the person and the mismatch medically confirmed, then it can be done. This is not the case: why so much do you want to introduce the provisions that are being voted on, because all they add is problems as the original one for the Greek time procedures that they establish? Only five states of the Council of Europe have similar predictions when the remaining thirty-eight are following diagnosis procedures, which you are also abolishing. In this respect, you cannot tell us about a European reality, causing the intelligence of society and stumbling the citizens, whom you are showing to ignore. However, the government is trying, completely distortingly, to convince society that the evaporative provisions it brings to the vote defend individual rights and that the bill is moving in a liberal context. Anyone who has a view that moves contrary to the provisions you propose is characterised as a far-right or overconservative. When this voice is from the JRC, you tell us that you did not expect it to be a left party, not to be assembled with your authority. But when the voice of reaction comes from the governmental majority, for example, of Mrs. Yeltsin, what is it? In an unprecedented way you are trying to confuse parliamentary dialogue, you are making unobstructed designations - they have heard today - but you do not listen to the concerns. You don't hear what the voices that react to you say. And you do not hear why you are trying to convince us that every voice of protest or questioning is a product of darkness and freedom, even when it is articulated by authoritarian lawyers and family law experts who have heard during the debate. I now come to the substance: in Article 1 you make a declaration, which you refer to in Article 3. While, in other words, you say that the person has the right to respect his or her personality on the basis of the characteristics of his or her sex, which, of course, in common experience and logic, are purely biological and relate to the physical condition of the person, as you refer to paragraph 2 of Article 2, you come after us and tell us that these features change according to the will of the person. But is this a matter of will or of true reality? In any case, why should the mismatch of these characteristics not be established medically? Is it possible to change the sex so, for the sake of taste, when there is no third objective judge and indeed a knowledge of medical science, who can assure that there is indeed the discrepancy to be resolved?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u223	It doesn't change sex.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u224	We've heard you and I'll see you later. You tell us that it is not required to make sure that the person has undergone any medical surgery and above all that any prior examination or medical treatment associated with his physical or mental health is not required. Why? In other words, how will the judge determine the unambiguous and any objectively necessary condition for gender change, if he does not know whether the applicant enjoys physical or mental health? I will point out to you here that the Scientific Service of the Parliament itself takes the case-law of the European Court of Human Rights, noting that the requirement of psychodiagnosis does not directly affect the psychosomatic integrity of people. So, what's the problem? What is served by the provision that you are bringing and abolishing the case law to date? Obviously, to the detriment of the social and public interest, you want to satisfy a particular audience, catalyzing logic and introducing new demons, aimed at shaping the foundation of the family and the normal social coexistence. I made several comments during the debate in the committee, where I did not receive any reply from the Minister. Today we heard the Minister tell us that Stalin was right. What are we gonna hear? I would refer to some of them again. First of all, why should there be a right to change again? So if gender changes for the second time means that the initial will was frustrated, humiliated or imprisoned, or the need for this was not medically and socially necessary. This is precisely why it appears that the procedure introduced by the bill is problematic. In fact, no one here told us and did not reply from now on: since the process has theoretically led to the restoration of gender discomfort, why regenerating gender discomfort and again new change? Really, how many times will the face name change? In other words, during his life one will have the possibility of being identified three times by a different name. What's to say first? Really, why change the main name freely, when changing name requires a special court judgment in this regard? How will the person be identified through successive changes? And yes, it won't change the VRF and AMKA, as you say, but what about the facial property situation and the changes, for example, the mortgages?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u225	Finish, Mr. Cryazides.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u226	I shall conclude, Mr President. If the person does not change the registration details, they will have problems with the management of the property, etc. What about the prosecution authorities? Will the police have access to the relevant gender and name-change information? According to what you have predicted, this does not exist because of the incomprehensible secrecy you are establishing. So we conclude that all that you mention, have another purpose and is empty letter.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u227	You're clear, Mr. Cryazides. Put it down.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u228	I shall conclude, Mr President. And really, what will happen in those cases where, because of the biology between the biological and the corrected sexes, life creates situations where, by maintaining reproductive capacity, there is in the end childbirth? So, when, for example, a female in nature changes into male and ultimately childbearing, how will natural mother be registered in the relevant registration act, when it is because of the ‘damaging of genus’ attributed to her under the procedure, is she still male?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u229	Please, get it over with.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u230	I shall conclude, Mr President, and I shall say...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u231	You have time to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u232	Your rapporteur said that this is all in instalments. It is the first time today, it is the second dose and we are going for the third, which is intended to allow - from the legislative point of view - the family couples to adopt. This bill, with these absurd provisions, cannot benefit from my vote in favour and I am voting against it as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u233	Thank you. Mr. Cassidy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u234	However, people are not sick to want to be diagnosed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u235	That's how it's determined scientifically. If the World Health Community agrees with you...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u236	Please! Do you continue to speak underneath, Mr. Lady?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u237	I have already listened with indignation to the SYRIZA spokesman to resign the Golden Dawn Parliamentary Group and even to mention King Ferraios, where you have no idea who he was, nor what King Ferraios believed. You will remember him one day when he comes here to vote for a nationalist, nationalist, and many ethnic prophesying. I am referring to the genuine recognition of the Turkish Union of Xanthi, which is the first step of a project of globalisation and the enemies of Hellenism, which wants to lead to the cosmopolitanization of Greek Thrace. Well, two words about history, because you're unbelievable and have no idea, you don't know what you're really becoming. I will say a few words about King Ferraeus, who after many days of torture by the Turks of Belgrade was strangled and thrown into the Danube along with his seven Greek companions. He wrote to his Thurium the following words, which would be persecuted today under anti-racist law. So I read them because they are very important words and they must be read in the Greek Parliament on the day the National Protestant Amendment is passed on to Turkish associations: "With a heart, an opinion, a soul, beating the tyrannone, the root is lost. Light a flame all over Turkey to run from Bosna to Arapia. High on the biscuits, lift up the cross, and like astropells, beat the enemy. Andreas Macedonians, for one, and tyrannone blood, suck like a harvest." These words are the words of King Fereus, which today is thirty - five years in prison under anti-racist law. Light a flame and burn the Turkish and the blood of the tyrants to suck like a prey. These words were said by King Ferraeus. So don't remember him. Expose. Prove how unscrupulous you are. We have been able to read Greek history a little. We don't claim bays, of course. We're not excellent historians. We have, however, studied the history of our country and renounce you today, because these legislations that you bring here to vote for, have a unique objective: the nationalisation and destruction of Greece. I will close this historical report, telling you that Thurium, those words I read, were singing by the priests who had survived the fate and heroic battle of Dratsan and were being executed by the Turkish army and the Turkish mob. And you, today, who dare and remember the King and dare and abandon the Golden Dawn, are voting for a bill in favour of Turkey aimed at destroying our country. Golden Dawn is a party loyal to tradition. As far as the issues of morality and family are concerned, we are a conservative party, which is why we are fiercely voting against. We are fabulously voting against today's legislation, which is against the sacred institution of the family. We are in the final phase of the notorious Kissinger doctrine. As we know, some decades ago this "great" form of Jewishism had explained that the Greek must be hit in its traditional values, in its history and culture, so that it cannot dominate the Balkans and the Eastern Mediterranean. Even if some dared to say that these words are false, the act proves that this project at the expense of Hellenism has come into force. So Greece is being set up today. It is because, it has made crime homogeneous by 98% on a national and religious basis. In this state we are homogeneous, by 98% we are Greek and Christian Orthodox. So they hit Hellenism, through the illegal Memorandum Governments, at its three pillars: at home, religion and family. Homeland is largely deformed, ethnicly deformed, through the flood of illegal immigrants who, too, are illegally legislating on the basis of anti-racist law. Because here there is a clear racism against the Greeks. When the Greek does not have to eat and the government chooses to give homes and cash to illegal immigrants, there is clear and brutal racism against the Greeks. The country also has a territorial level. There is, as I said before, a plan of Turkishization, cosmopolitanization and then a Turkishisation of Thrace. The drafting of today's out-of-date ethnic-private amendment, which wants to put brakes on the fair, scientific and legally substantiated decisions of the Ice Bay which prohibit illegal action and the functioning of Turkish unions on the Greek territory, has a specific purpose: the absolution of Hellenism, the desolation of the countryside. [[Mr DIMITRIOS KRIMASTINOS]] Apart from the homeland, religion is clearly set too. All the parties in this House have been conscientious and voted to create Islamic mosques. SYRIZA and New Democracy, hand in hand with the great-working people who took over the eruption of the mosque, voted for this abortion to which the Golden Dawn resists. We did dynamic protest gatherings. Dozens of cages, MAT platoons have ruled out our concentration range. We will, however, continue with every instrument provided by the Constitution, to resist the Islamisation of Greece. And because it is fashionable today and you are talking about Europeanism, you are talking about the European acquis, I remind you that in many European countries and the bourgeoisie is illegal and the Islamic handkerchief can be banned in workplaces. Such a bill will immediately be passed by the Golden Dawn when it will run this country, because, from what you say, we must Europeanise. The same is happening, of course, with the fences at the borders of the European States, which you in no way intend to do. Religion is being beaten on another level. In the book of religious ones, which happened to unleash and notice that it was an abortion, it presents Christ and Holy Mary as Indians Apache. It has special chapters for Judaism with the Star of David, the tortoise, the chop, the Peshach, the seven-phase lamp, the teachings of the rabbis as if we wanted to educate new Zionists and not new Greeks. The same, of course, with Islam. He has funds for Allah, for the Quran, the Ramadan, the mosque, the mosque as if we wanted to make new generations here, in this country, and not discipline Greek children. Of course, the Greek family is being put, with the famous cohabitation pact. Mr. Mitsotakis voted with hands and feet, of course. Today the New Democracy is showing up and mocking that it will supposedly react, that it will allegedly vote against this gender-change legislation. But - I say this for the representatives and the Chief of the New Democracy - one thing being with the transsexual operators and the other being with the representatives of the Church of Greece. You can't be with the transsexuals and the Archbishop of the Greek Church. You can't be with the mosque and the Church. This hypocrisy must finally be stopped. Golden Dawn fanatically rejects today's anti-national legislation. There is, of course, a very important point on which we must stand, and that is no other than the mobilisation of the Church, but it is none other than the words said by the Ayoreites, who have called us to resist. And we will obey this party, obey their enthusiasm and resist it, because, as the Ayoreite monks quite rightly said, the sacred community of Mount Athos, if we do not resist today where Greece is concerned, our ancestors will rise from the graves. We are therefore at the side of the hierarchy and we call on the Church of Greece to take the lead in populism, in dynamic mobilizations, as took place in the days of the late Christoulos, when the Greek national anthem was heard in the great cities of the country by the mouth of millions of Greeks. Golden Dawn, at the side of the Church, will give the great fight. And victory will be ours, victory will be Greece and Hellenism will survive, despite the opposite plans of all the nationalist Memorandum governments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u238	The Member of the New Democracy, Mr Voridis, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u239	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me begin with a matter of political - methodological, which I think will work. There has been a statement from the rapporteur for the Independent Greeks that they will not vote in favour of the issue of minority. This is referred to in Article 3. As you know, it is not possible to vote against provisions, which mean that when you vote against an article, you vote against all of it, not one paragraph.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u240	The article you mean.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u241	Sure. I'm talking about the article now. You know, without Article 3, there's no bill. The whole bill is Article 3. We are therefore going to vote against Article 3. However, I address the direct question to both the Potami and the Democratic Assent: Given that the Independent Greeks have said that they are not going to vote on Article 3, what will they be? Because here again, the government is catching majority in the House. This is where the following is happening: We have a position on the Independent Greeks that they will vote on the bill. How many speakers have they written? One, Mr Katsikis, who has said he will vote against it. This is where we don't play the best. When we say a majority in Parliament, a majority in Parliament means - and do not underestimate, Mr Contonis, the political issue - 'I have 151'. This is a parliamentary majority. If we then have a statement and then all the party Members come and do not vote, which parliamentary majority? This is important for how the parliamentary majority is formed each time and for the attitude of the political forces. But I come to what this bill regulates. Is that a human rights bill? Is that what you're saying?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u242	That's what we're talking
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u243	Yes, sir. Since it is a bill of human rights, we should all be very careful - the New Democracy is very careful - and we should all think a lot about our attitude. We cannot violate human rights. We agree on that. Is the European Court of Human Rights a homophobic court? Is it a court that violates human rights? Is that the European Court of Human Rights? Is he doing this? I would say - unfortunately it is only for the French, because I did not find it in English - the whole of this decision. The crucial point in this decision is also mentioned in the Scientific Committee's report. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Mavroudis Voridis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It says, therefore, that contrary to the condition of sterilisation - which accepts the violation of human rights - the obligation to prior psychodiagnosis of 'diality' does not directly affect the physical integrity of persons, since prior psychodiagnosis is among the conditions for legal recognition of sex of transgenders in the very large majority of the forty-three Member States of the Council of Europe, where recognition is possible. The court accepted that this condition was designed to protect the interests of the parties concerned so that they would not be involved in a process of legal change in their identity. How, then, do you come and say that in fulfillment of this decision, which essentially speaks of medical certificate and psychodiagnosis, you depend on this change, this correction only by a statement of will? Explain this in terms of human rights.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u244	And court judgment.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u245	Yes, but it can't be done, Mr. Lappa, all right together.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u246	That's what the bill says.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u247	So if the European Court of Justice says something is insurmountable and sacred gospel and if it says something else, uh, it's a judicial judgment...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u248	Why does he say anything else?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u249	Because he says something else. Because what you're doing, Mr. Contony...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u250	Where does it say it?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u251	Allow me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u252	Does it say it's imperative? If he says so, tell us.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u253	It does not say that it is imposed, but you cannot escape the real issue. And what's the real issue? What are you legislating here? Do you think of a procedure that already exists? Don't you know that this procedure exists? We know that. Unique primary court, voluntary jurisdiction procedure, application and subsequent judicial judgment on the issue of gender interrogation. Isn't there today? Can't we? Aren't they making decisions? Sure. What do you want to add? You may indeed reject a large part of the case-law of the courts, which actually called for surgery in this matter. And you want to go a stadium before. That's right. But that is not what you say, because at the moment, with the mere statement of will, at a secret meeting, in a bunker with a judge who appears - not the transgender, who - and says: 'I want a gender change'. "You wish it, sir?" ‘Secretary of State’. So it's registered, it's sealed and goes to the registry office. That's it. Is that what the European Court of Justice says? If you were to say that a medical diagnosis of this particular situation is required, which is indeed the main argument of transgender people is that it is not a product of their own will...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u254	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u255	The statement?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u256	It's not a product of their will! Of course! It's a product of a situation.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u257	The statement? What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u258	Don't get confused about what we're talking about. That is what they are talking about. 'drugness' is not the result of raising one day and deciding that it is discomfortful.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u259	It's a pit. Let it go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u260	That's right, Mr. Lappa. So, that doesn't have to be diagnosed? Of course. What are you doing now? Actually, you don't regulate any right, Mr. Contony. This is called 'legal activism'. It is part of an ideology called 'rightfulness'. It has nothing to do with human rights. It is actually part of a concept of eradicating and decomposition of identities. Another is to deal with this matter, another to behave with respect to these people, another to diagnose and confront the problem and another completely what you are doing now. That is why it cannot be accepted. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like some more time, Mr President. And to see the contradictions, I heard something else: the Church is not entitled to speak. I'm in direct love.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u261	Who said that? Nobody said it!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u262	I heard it from a lot of people. Last I heard him say it - since you say no one -...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u263	He's already judged! He's judging, as we're all judged.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u264	We're all judging. Wait a minute. You're asking me who said it. The last person I heard was called Costas Zachariadis and is a coordinator of your parliamentary group. The man said: "How does the Church interfere in this debate?" Caesar's Caesar's. Right? So there's who says it. Your group says so. Who says so, answered. You say that. But I come to the following point: on issues of bioethics, which is undoubtedly such a matter, does the Church have any say? Indeed, if you read, there is no fanatical reason, it does not share opinions that have been heard in this Chamber here, but it is placed on the subject in a way that is rational, structured, in a way that guarantees, of course, Christianity - because it defends the Church - and simply operational issues. So you come and say: The Church is not entitled to speak, but everyone else is entitled. Everyone has the right to speak, but not the Church. I conclude, saying this, to see how many issues are created. Come see if it changes - be careful - in case of a child having a child. What do you say there? There is no change here in the prefecture of paternity or motherhood. Gender has changed, but where does paternity or maternity come from, that has not changed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u265	Mr. Voridis, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u266	How, then, will the person who has been registered - notice - that he was born with father to him and changed gender and became a woman? He still has a father to do this, does not change this circus act, but his gender has changed. So, what's wrong with him now? And be careful, these secrets, because the previous predatorial act is lost so that it doesn't go on. This is the piece of legislation, ladies and gentlemen, which you are proposing.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u267	Except we don't have a gender change.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u268	Change of registration.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u269	Correction, then. Enrolment. Don't worry about it. I wish that all of us were different. We'd solve her in a second. So, in fact, ladies and gentlemen, with this bill, there is no question of rights, no question of rights at all. In reality, there is a question of political exploitation and legal activism in the context of rightfulness. Incidentally, Minister - and I conclude, Mr President - because you have spoken to us about the tradition of the Left, between Lenin, Stalin, Mao, Pol Pot, Castro, Red Hmer, North Korea and Maduro, can you find me someone who has not violated human rights?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u270	Please, ladies and gentlemen. The SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, Mr Fotini Vakis, now has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u271	Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, let us approach this subject somewhat theoretically. So in a Europe that has been stirring far-right and its lights are beginning to be two, in a Europe where black spots are staining the charter of democracy and the heirs are declaring the inheritance of modernity and enlightenment, let today's debate on the bill and a memory exercise and an opportunity to re-establish self-evident. First article of the Declaration of Human Rights and Citizens somewhere there in the far 18th century: All humans are born equal and free. Human nature is not a fact, it's a proper thing, it's a project. We have equal rights under our own nature. The rights, therefore, are not given a kart which is unreasonable and do not relate to the individual qualities of the race, gender, language, religion, class. But they were not given a charm in the eyes of commandments engraved in the stone plaque of modernity. The history of rights is their hemorrhage and uterus are their struggles and revolutions. The history of rights is their daily claim, when their face is populated by ferrous human beings, who divide our fellows according to their skin colour. This bill is dictated by the inalienable and inviolable individual right of self-determination in terms of racial identity. Gender democracy is synonymous with the recognition of human dignity in a rule of law that removes divisions between visible and invisible. Ladies and gentlemen, the right to self-determination comes very far from the American Revolution, which took place in the opening of the abolition of slavery, and this draft law enshrines the right of individual freedom in respect of racial identity. It is therefore intended to emancipate from another slavery, from biology. Biology as blemished, of which no one can escape, as the foundation stone of segregation of tribes into upper and lower, has written the darkest pages of history. It is not a fate, therefore, for our fellow citizens that their presence is inconsistent with the gender that has been registered in their registration office and in their official documents, for our fellow citizens, whose biological predetermination has become a'solid corset' in which they suffocate, became a martyr of division, stigma and analogy for our fellow citizens, who are also seen, genotype and phenotype, who have made them unrecognized by the state. What are we talking about, when it comes to transgender people, an air travel is not self-evident, is it not a routine transaction in a service or a bank? Because when their identity does not agree with their appearance, they are persecuted as thieves. There are such incidents. What open and democratic society are we talking about when transgender means eviction, exclusion, loss of dignity, school abandonment, violence, abuse, harassment? Ladies and gentlemen, shock and awe caused a change in the age limit on the right to legal gender identity. Anti-educational and scandalous was the right of 15-year-olds to be entitled to a change of identity in legal documents with parental consent and a decision of the Scientific Council of Children. I would like to ask if you have listened carefully to the tragic testimonies of parents at the hearing of bodies of the competent committee of Parliament, the first-person narrations about the day-to-day Golgotha of these children, for which puberty is a nightmare of exclusion and the beginning of depression. They are children who leave school, because they cannot afford to be scapegoats, they are children who are deceived to self-esteem that escaped from the North of the group, are children who attempted suicide. I would also like to ask the following question: The Greek Parliament has given the right to vote in seventeen years. So teenagers have the right to vote, but not self-determination? They can decide for the fate of their country, but not for themselves? By the way, in universal Ireland, which bans abortion, the right to a legal change of sex is given one year earlier, at fourteen. This draft law introduces two further important provisions in relation to the existing legal framework, which are also worth mentioning. It abolishes as prerequisites for the legal change of gender identity the mandatory surgical scalpel, which injured body and personality. It also abolishes the psychiatric opinion that conceals the intake of the transgender person as abnormal, referring to grim divisions of other times. Ladies and gentlemen, much has been said at the meetings of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. Some of you have come up with a new registration criterion that has been passed by Parliament and is also a monument of opportunism. You will vote against bills regardless of content, since they do not receive SYRIZA - ANLE consent. I believe that this criterion in this Gender Legislation becomes a sex of your ideological nakedness and the conversion of Officerial Representation into a far-right rhetoric that has long been divorced from individual rights, which was the first to defend classical liberalism. Despite your pious desires, therefore, this bill seems to be the ideological test of endurance of your own party. Does it actually concern the gender identity of your own party? The defence of rights is not exhausted in selfies with transgender communities, it is not the wisdom of some scientists and evils who want to evade, get rid of their military service or lift the unbaptised Mount Athos, as was heard by MP wars of the bill. They do not dismantle public order, as was heard by a colleague from the Police Department. If something is engulfing public order, you know, it's not the rights, but it's the preaching of hatred and racism, the verbal violence that sorts and divides people into citizens of alpha and beta categories, people and people. It's the blockades from the public sphere and the pre-compressions. This bill did not only dictate to us the need to comply with the Council of Europe, which, in any case, calls for discrimination against trans-nationals, but also for 'emerging Europe and we are Europeans' not only to be exhausted in the fact that we live in the euro area and are in favour of the euro. It is also about being European in terms of rights and institutions. This bill does not recommend it to be sensitive and philanthropist. This Gender Legislation is not the sex of figuratively covering the economic crisis and indignation. It's not just peoples who live on bread. They want bread, they want rights. This bill was not produced by the speakers in the academic Jerusalem of Gender studies, who rejected biologically defined sex, diagnosing the socially constructed and fluid character, the multiplicity of identities. There are these theories too. The bill gave birth to the elementary democratic rights of equality and equality, rights that cancel daily stories of the next door, which do not find recipients and projectors, stories of unemployment, evictions, redundancies, injury to the body and soul, prejudice and mistrust, exclusions and a life of life, even for elementary ones. Ladies and gentlemen, I am closing down with a phrase from the President of the transgenders at the hearing of the institutions in the House. We can't tolerate another felony. We hear him every Sunday from the church's microphones. But first it is Christianity that spoke of the equality of all men, regardless of their individual accusations, before God. And of course, the preaching of the Gospel is a preaching of love to neighbor. The Church characterizes rights to play games. It tackles the right of about as an insulting disease to the government and calls for the withdrawal of the bill, because gender is not chosen, but is given as a divine donation. If gender gives it to nature or god for the Church, the state gives the rights. And in parliamentary democracies the state legislates on the basis of the majority principle and not on the basis of the decisions of the Holy Synod. Since for the "God's State" these fellow citizens are not eligible, those who choose sex and do not accept what has been given them, nor for the earthly paradise of socialism, since the social sex is contradictory to the objectivity that the communist party embraces, let the House allow these people to enter a state that will make them identifiable. Ladies and gentlemen, the dispute over the bill is not between Europeanism and anti-Europeanism. It's not between modernization and tradition. It is a controversy that comes from far away, from the 'adolescent' of European history. It's the conflict between enlightenment and darkness. In the hope that a phrase by Immanuel Cad will not be verified in the 21st century before "we live in the era of Enlightenment, but not in an enlightened era", in the hope that the bells will not sound mourning and the ungodlyness of some light of Enlightenment will make some of our fellow people visible, I urge you to vote for a bill reliant on the principles of democracy and based on respect and solidarity with the fellowman.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u272	Thank you, Mrs. Vaki. The President of the Golden Dawn Parliamentary Group, Mr Michaloliakos, has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u273	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the main issue and the main philosophy of the bill is self-determination and respect for the individual's right to self-determination. On this point, we state that we are Greek nationalists and you do not respect our right to define ourselves. So why are you calling this principle when you first for political reasons, selectively, violate it? We are Greek nationalists. We are neither fascists nor Nazis. Like you are communists and you must confess to it and not be frequent in the various international forums and as democrats. Before, however, I refer to the bill, I would like to look at the attitude of the New Democracy towards this bill. A few days ago, the New Democracy had announced under the title "an alibi end" that it would not vote for bills when a government partner distances, even if it agrees. He also said earlier one of the New Democracy's speakers that the government does not have a majority of fifty ones since MPs of the Independent Greeks have separated their position and have said they will vote against the bill. But it takes too much for a New Democracy representative to say so, when it is said that a government majority of the SYRIZA government was given the vote. I will mention some characteristic cases, with the top one on 14 August 2015, when the government did not have the majority, because dozens of MPs had left its ranks, who later made another party and were known to be civilized, and the New Democracy MPs voted 'yes' in the SYRIZA memorandum. So they were the ones who gave the government majority to SYRIZA and did not stop in the memorandum in August 2015. We had three other cases: The bill on the cohabitation pact, where several Members - almost half - of the New Democracy voted in favour of the cohabitation pact, the arrangement on the "sinner" Concert Hall, which you also voted for, gentlemen of the New Democracy, but of course also the bill on the Islamic mosque, which you voted for in favour of the positions of the government majority. How, then, do you claim that the government does not have the government majority when in difficult times are you people who come for her? And how is it possible to question this, when there are many willing supporters, especially in such bills, when they are put? When the competitor of John Rabbit raised the issue of unconstitutionalism, he said that it is not possible for a 15-year-old child to have an opinion, to have a legal act. And you replied that it is covered and it is constitutional. If, at one time, those who are legal from here - and without being a legal person are easily aware of it - understand what you said 'yes', then you really should be freaking out. But it also appeared from this request for unconstitutionalism that there are two parties within the House. There is the party of the political parties and there is the party of the Greek people, the Golden Dawn! Everybody against! [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] Indeed, the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman, Mr Lappas, came to say that even in 1821 he was in favour of the rights of transsexuals! Have you confused things because thieves were wearing dresses?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u274	Is that what you understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u275	That's what I understand, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u276	You've got the wrong thing to do!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u277	As I understand what you said, we must respect judicial decisions. But you do not respect our presumption of innocence and you have us indicted when we are tried. Not you, but your party and, in general, many 'progressors' - within many introductorys - tubers and speakers. He also said another New Democracy speaker that you made the bill as much as you can left. I totally disagree! The more liberal, I would say, because it is known that on the days of Soviet and Father Stalin homosexuality was considered a criminal offense and took the austerity way to Siberian. The spokesman of the New Democracy said that we are “respecting the Church.” Let's see how they respect the Church. And how they respect the Church is clearly seen from the New Democracy's proposal, which wants to be "bottom-up with the policeman and the policeman"! The Church is clear: it does not accept a gender change. The New Democracy in its proposal says that it accepts a gender change with a age limit of eighteen and even adds with a possibility of correcting once, without a change of opinion, and the court will examine the case in two stages. Thus, in substance, New Democracy is in agreement with the principle and spirit of the bill. They simply object that this should not be the case at the age of 15. How we are born and how we exist in this world is certainly a gift of God and anyone who questions it, disputes the very physical reality, the very natural laws, and in essence contributes to committing a hybrid, according to ancient customs and customs. I would also like to respond here to the Minister of Government, who, in order to separate his position from the crimes of Bolshevikism, including the persecution of homosexuals, said that 'we are against Stalin'. And he said that since 1968 there has been a party, the Interior JCC, who has been fighting for socialism with freedom. I would remind you that this party that was fighting for socialism with freedom meant its freedom as follows: Nice democrat, Chuchescu! In fact, many of the protagonists of this government, when Leonidas Kyrikos later wanted to build a truly Euro-communist party and made EASA prefer to separate their position so that they could keep the hammer! We know that. We're very few in this place, and everyone knows the other. Within the framework of this bill, there is also an amendment which, in a wicked and secret way, neither is trying to legitimise the Turkish Union of Xanthi. This amendment will really lead to bad adventures for our country. Those who have submitted it, on the basis of a judgment of the European Court of Human Rights, should know that there is another condemnation of Greece by the European Court of Human Rights for the Home of Macedonian Culture made by the philosophers. So they open up a lot of fronts. They drive the country into adventures. Basically, in breach of the constitutional charter, they go to recognise ethnic minorities in our country. We have reached the point, as I refer to Thrace, that we have literally given Turkish propaganda the whole Muslim population of Thrace, which is made up of anything but Turkish. There are Czechs who had migrated there, there are Roma who are Muslims, there are pure Greek Pomaks, who - and this is not the responsibility of the Left - are right, to say things by their name - we thanked Turkey. These people had remained faithful to the Ottoman regime, wrote in Arabic characters, and we taught them to write the Turkish language in Latin characters and align themselves with the Kemalic state. This is a great responsibility for the Greek state, the right, the centre, all those who ruled after World War II. From there, however, to reach the point of celebrating the Liberties in Xanthi and parade high school females with Islamic handkerchiefs, this is a shame. And it should make more careful the ones who brought the amendment, which leads, in violation of the Ice Arena decision, to the recognition of the Turkish Union of Xanthi. In fact, in the Freedoms of Xanthi they produced students with Islamic handkerchiefs! And to be Greek today this piece of Thrace alone - for it could be East Thrace and East Romulia - the blood was shed in the second Greek-Bulgar war, where Major Velissarios, the liberator of the Ioanninas, and the last direct descendant of Theodoros Kolokotoni, George Kolokotonis, spilled his blood in the battle of Kresna. They spilled their blood for Thrace to be free, and today in Xanthi they parade with Islamic handkerchiefs and they declare with courageous Turks, violating the Treaty of Lausanne. But how did we get this far? Because all the things we are discussing today on a gender statement and the others would have been literally incomprehensible until a few years ago. It would be outrageous. The representatives of the "New Left", of SYRIZA, are excellent regularists and therefore deserve congratulations. They use the so-called “tactic of the salame”, known as the communist method. A characteristic example of the 'tactical saline' is what happened in Hungary in 1945. I would stress that there were only two thousand communists in Hungary and they arrived in 1949 to govern it. Referring to how their leader Rakoshi had achieved this thing, he said in a lecture in 1952: "If we make an obvious..." - referring to the "method of salami" - "...in front of attack, to destroy all our opponents and achieve our goals, what will happen? Simplifiedly, our enemies will unite against us. So, what's the best tactic? Avoid the general frontal attack and start the gradual neutralization of opponents. We will completely destroy the bourgeois state, destroy the institution to destroy one of its defenders every time." That's what SYRIZA is trying to do in every way. So let's think that before we got to this outrageous bill, which literally dissolves the foundation of the nation, which is the sacred institution of the family, we had the public flag burn, which was made on television by SYRIZA representatives and other progressive factors, and which defended it as a right, we had the abolition recently of the reception of the blue-white from schools, we had a systematic and methodical propaganda and a distortion of our national history. And today's bill shows what Golden Dawn has repeatedly pointed out, that bankruptcy is unfortunately not only economic, but it is also political, it is also moral, it is social. The only way to stop this bankruptcy in all fields is for Greeks finally to rise up for a new golden dawn of Hellenism. So bankruptcy touches many things. What, though, do SYRIZA’s partners pursue with this bill? The characteristic is what the bill writes, that gender identity means the internal and personal way in which the person itself experiences his gender regardless of gender from which he was registered at birth on the basis of his biological characteristics. No importance, then, to biological characteristics. The paradoxes that can arise from this bill if it is voted in favour - which will be voted for - are many: the adoption of children by two homosexuals who will declare a man and the other who will declare a woman, avoid military service and much more. It's a bill - a monster. Golden Dawn will resist and vote against this bill, but also denounce the hypocritical attitude of the New Democracy, which does not say "no" and gives its own proposal that also contains the gender change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u278	Thank you, too. The speaker of the Golden Dawn, Mr Gregos, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u279	Thank you, Mr President. I am fully matched with the Secretary General of the Golden Dawn and with the other Members of the Golden Dawn and especially in full matching with every nationally thoughtful Greek citizen. In many gatherings and talks we characterise your policies as ethnicist and treacherous, and that is what you yourself, in many ways, with today's amendment, with the non-approval of the EEZ, with the invasion of millions of illegal Islamic immigrants in the country, with the support of hostile countries such as Turkey and Albania, in the European Union, whatever it is and much more. Within a few days we will see left Prime Minister Tsipras humbly presenting his respects to the new President of the United States, the one he considered to be at risk and swearing him before the elections. This is how he did, of course, with European loan sharks, and indeed some executives called the President of the United States as a racist and homophobic. This is the left, the left of the authority, the left of corruption - here too, the 'Fraport' scandal, which must be opened at some point - the left of the border and, above all, the left of the violation of human rights and the Constitution. Why? Violating human rights is not being able to circulate safely on the streets and double-lock your home. It's trespassing to keep taxing on a property you bought with trouble and sacrifices. Violation of human rights is to normally pay your contributions as a worker and when you have to get your pension, wait for too many years and have to survive like this. You are lying, you are hypocrites, you are opportunistic, you are now very few, but you cause very great damage. I heard before a white-haired SYRIZA MP talk about revolution. This gentleman therefore voted for memoranda and all measures against Greek citizens and has the courage to speak about revolutions. Even the way this bill comes for a vote reveals the purpose for which some brains drew it up and filed it. It comes as another part of the plans of the nationalist government - SYRIZA - ANEL format, like those of citizenship, anti-racist law - only for Greeks we will say here, it is not foreigners, as we have shown - the mosque law, the cohabitation pact and the like. The aim of this bill, like the others, is, of course, not to set up specific individuals in advance. This covers our Constitution with articles on the free development of personality. The aim of the anti-national arch parties, SYRIZA, New Democracy, PASOK, ANEL, Potami, etc. is to have a crucial impact on the Greek ideas and values once again. Means such as homeland, religion, family, are considered by these political forces fascist, racist, homophobic and other such phenomena. These ideas and values must be fought, according to them, in order for Greece to be delivered without resistance to the eagle and bloodshed of a beast called multiculturalism and globalisation. Golden Dawn is the only power that resists these plans, sometimes the official Church, as is the case today. Of course, everyone knows the great hatred that this government has in the face of Orthodoxy and Hellenism. Laws like this, such as citizenship, anti-racist, can of course be lifted directly by a national government, but the damage has already been done. We must, however, never forget who voted for these laws and blame them. To blacken the MPs of SYRIZA, PASOK, ANEL, the River, the New Democracy is relatively easy. But the situation created by such legislation is sometimes irreversible. That is why, at every step, the Members of the anti-national arch must feel the reaction of the people, of a people who always deceive, of course, of parliamentary redress and of the chair. So it was and so it continues to be the corrupt political establishment, this political establishment that only Golden Dawn fights. The greatest risk that will arise from this bill is the possible adoption of homosexual couples. It has already been said that such an intention has already been expressed. Of course, everyone's privacy is his choice and is absolutely respected. But adopting a homosexual couple is the crown of perversion, and that is why only the intention of doing so should primarily bring about social outcry and, if possible, also be regarded as a criminal act. No child should fall victim to such situations and the vigilance of authorities and society in particular must be continued. Tolerance in such situations means complicity. While the government formula fights rabies against multiple families and unfairly taxs Greek citizens, while it has not taken the slightest measure to solve the huge problem of subnatality, at a time when it floods our country with millions of illegal immigrants, it also brings this bill, which includes the incredible challenge of gender change since the fifteen years, with some alleged security nets. It's really ridiculous and acidic, but also tragic at the time when according to the law a fifteen-year-old does not serve in the army, does not buy cigarettes or drinks, cannot get a driving licence for any means of transport, cannot open a bank account, cannot of course marry, cannot issue a credit card, cannot vote, cannot buy or rent an apartment, cannot do hundreds of important or less important things. And even the possible gender change in such ages will obviously occur once, it is a decision of life and it does not change. Persistent scientists have decided that even in cases of older gender change, a much greater psychosomatic preparation would be needed, which is not foreseen. Of course, we wouldn't expect anything good from the SYRIZA format - ANEL. Their tactics, known as their goals, are known to the tragic results of their choices and positions. To invoke human rights, of course, the fans of Stalin, Kemal, Chauchescu, Hoja, Maduro, are, if anything, a challenge. After all, only the same people have human rights on the left. Everyone else has to fight. That is why it is a challenge for the bullshit that is heard about human rights. So against the anti-national and ethnic arch, SYRIZA, ΝΔ, PASOK and other parties and parties, with the support of the Greek people and our clear position, we say a great "no" to this abortion and we invite the Greek people to stand by us in this struggle. The top right of children is to grow and grow in a normal family and in turn to become parents and raise normal children as well. False forwarders and so-called democrats, under the hands of children, under the hands of our nation's institutions and values! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u280	Thank you, too. The Member of the New Democracy Mr.Notis Mitarakis is requesting permission from a short-day absence abroad from Thursday 9 November 2017 until Friday 10 November 2017 and from Saturday 18 November 2017 until Tuesday 21 November 2017. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u281	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Parliamentarian Chios Mr Andreas Michaelides is requesting permission from a short-day absence abroad for personal reasons from 11 October 2017 to 12 October 2017. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u282	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Mrs. Papariga, you have the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u283	In any case, the bill, which the government brings, creates a feeling of relief and euphoria to those in need of change, of correcting the gender identity due to discomfort of the sex, or of those who have literally been lost in the bill. The whole debate is about transgenders and not random. It is also positive that this terrible obligation to surgery with all its short consequences has been abolished as a precondition. That's enough. From there on, the draft law constitutes a legal delusion. You'll tell me that neither the first nor the last law is cultivating legal delusion. This seems to be how you are, and indeed anti-thematically and from a high point of view, in our firm position, for social, scientific support and before the gender correction takes place, so that the choice is conscious - and I will not say it in detail, other Members of the JRC have analysed it - and then. Because gender discomfort is not solved automatically by rectifying identity. It creates climate, helps to some extent, and it can also strike social racism, which we must all contribute to and fight it, but it does not solve the issue, because the biological element exists on health issues and on a number of other issues that people want specific support. Of course, what we are talking about is budgetary costs, because it means that there must be qualified staff, collective responsibility and not one, etc. This, of course, has nothing to do with the psychiatricization of the problem. Although I'll tell you something? This is my personal opinion and I do not want to commit the JRC's parliamentary group. In listening to a few, fortunately a few speeches which have been made on these issues - particularly in the committee of Parliament and not here - I must tell you that these opinions need a psychiatrist and a psychoanalysis. I am referring only to a few points of view which have been heard here. That is where a psychiatrist is needed, not in transgenders, but in those views that have been heard, and I think anyone can understand. Why does this bill cultivate individual error and delusion? Because it's philosophically based on the individual poem. Is the atomic poem something we need to take into account in this particular case? Clearly, clearly. But the other thing is 'I take into account the atomic lesson', which, if you like, concerns a group and may be more than we think, because they are not usually known. However, the individual poem is not enough to become a draft law and law tomorrow. Alas, if every law on any matter was based on an individual torment. It can't be done. Nor are individual experiences the same, nor do they arise from the same experiences, but that is what I am saying here. Here is philosophy: the atomic boom, and indeed the atomic boom was identified with the individual right. And again, everything has to do with social, individual rights, individual experiences, but it's not the term to become a bill. But can I tell you something? The disagreements with you, with the government, may have been to the prerequisite before and after social, scientific and financial support. I wish it were only on that. Or, if you want, in a series - let's say - ideologies, ideological opinions that we have and have. It could be said that, in any case, it is justified, in so many different opinions. Perhaps in this area it was not abyss. However, you are extremely dangerous for all the literature you are enviaging in this draft law and opinions that you have developed, on the basis of this draft law, and which, of course, you want to turn them into a kind of modern worldview. I can say at least these words: Firstly, this bill is a distraction to your extreme liberal policy, not more extreme than New Democracy, but extreme liberal policy. It's a bill that makes smuggling ideas. The more right you go, the more left-handed you get up. Look at, of course, the New Democracy, and on the occasion of this bill, but not so much on the occasion of the bill, has put forward recent modern reactionary views, such as excellence, that social inequality is within the nature of man and others who are not now the time to analyse them. Of course, because conservative views are being modernised, they are not staying the same, but are you, at the moment, building an ideological pulp, literally, which - what am I supposed to say to you now? - damages, corrupts radical consciences. You who dare not make the separation of the Church from the state, which you still consider prostitution as a profession, which has not bothered you at all that state television had the death of the world promoter, not to use the terms that our people say, was in favour of the political rights of blacks and the sexual liberation of women. I do not know if the PLAY-BOY rabbits are indicators of sexual liberation. He probably wanted black rabbits, didn't get to him white. And that's second news on state television. At that time Mr Pappas or whoever is responsible for putting a matter, but - I forgot - does not interfere with the state, he leaves the television free. Not that private channels didn't say anything like that, and that's what they said, but that's what they do their job, etc. I would like to stand on this point in particular: you have slandered the positions of the JRC - not fight them, fight them, fight them, slander them - and twisted them, and I do not know whether or not you will say that, I will not say it anti-communism, but you cannot do it otherwise. For example, you met Golden Dawn, New Democracy, Potami, I do not remember the Democratic Incorporation, and you were judging the period 1920-1930, the Stalinist period, as you say, during the collectiveisation of what policy it had toward homosexuals. There was a law on paedophilia and there was a law - I cannot explain what it says - about'male dorm'. Be careful, however, you will compare the respective laws in the capitalist world not with 2017, because in the United States there was lobotomy and the condemnation of homosexuality and the 1960s. Can I tell you something else? If there were opinions in the then Soviet Union of the 1920s - badly, I say - that homosexuality was related to a psychiatric problem, it reflected the level of development of science in that period and even in a country that we know was not as developed as England, Germany, France. See what was then for homosexuality, what is too natural at scientific level to delay perceptions and change along the way because science has really evolved and homosexuality has nothing to do with it and it is not psychiatric problem. But if, in 1920 and 1930, you want to compare your stalinology - which does not concern you at the time - you have to compare it to what was the case. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm taking my time into consideration. They heard opinions here, such as they were hunting and putting them in prison in the 1960 ’ s. Look at that. When Franco killed Lorca in Spain, they justified him as killing him because he was a homosexual. And today there are movies that explain this thing. Look for it better. Another homosexuality and another minor rape. Another homosexuality and another prostitution. Let's see if they were convicted of this or convicted of other actions. Because now Mr. Kontonis, because he did not go to Estonia, told us he was a fan of the October Revolution. But is there more mockery than what's going on? Well, aren't you ashamed? I'm telling you, honestly. You are not obliged to be followers of the October Revolution. No obligation. You are followers of the October Revolution, you have spent a thousand memos, you have shattered adequate social rights, so individual rights. You go to the United States to kiss Trump's hand, kiss Putin's hand and ask him, who has made today, in 2017, anti-homosexuality law - another is in 1910, 1920 and 1930 and more in 2017 - and you will now go to Trump to give him all Crete, to make bases for the Americans and I don't know what else you're going to give. And I'm not saying it because we have anti-terrorism. He would say the same thing if it were Obama. Of course, the people must know that you are lifting up, smuggling left ideas, as much as they are right, reacting and conservative go. And after all - the other parties are saying that we are urban parties. You're the rebels now. Well, it's a disgrace. It's an insult. And in any case, this is not new, it is no new choice. The twentieth century is full of changes, corrections of ideological and political identities. And by accident, the ideological place you came from and the ideological place you joined, the social democracy, seals it, and the gender identity change is legitimate, because it balances a man. But the change in political identity means the following. It means systematic deception of a people and, above all, of radical forces. And finally, look at this. We, when we say social rights, know that in this society we live in, social rights are classics. And the social rights shaped by the struggle of the people - and there are conquests - start from the guarantee of a constitutional right, the right to property in the means of production and the exploitation of human beings. The most hypocritical law is constitutional. We don't hide it, we say it. So there are social rights, which must be individualized and which want additional measures and individual experiences to be taken into account. But what you are doing, literally, is shattering the left conscience and creating, literally, the inertia of thought, which means inert action.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u284	Thank you. The President of Parliament, Mr. Voutsis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u285	Allow me, Mr President. Respect for my colleague, Mrs Papayannakis, is also seen as being self-evident. I simply do not think that it should be left out, at least for my part, of an opinion which, not by mistake, expressed what it seemed to be. I think, and I am clear, that there are no views that are heard in our debate that require psychiatrists or psychiatric hospitals. I want to be very clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u286	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u287	It wasn't by mistake. It was conscious.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u288	I get it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u289	Mr Athanasios, Member of the New Democracy, will have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u290	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will try to make a scientific approach, first of all, to the bill, and then I shall refer to the substance of it, and what exactly is the aim of the bill. Before I do, however, I would like to begin with a position and a reminder. The position: we have heard from the rapporteur, I think, but also from many of his colleagues in the SYRIZA that we do not want to vote on the bill, because we are backwards, we are conservatives etc. Listen, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, in the New Democracy we are the ones who are defending and projecting the traditional social, cultural and intellectual values and democratic structures. We are, however, also the ones who reject any form of authoritarian regime based on stateism. If that is conservative, then, we are conservative. The reminder: The New Democracy, as a party of responsibility, is studying and accepting the scientific assumptions of medical and legal science and therefore the needs of society. For this reason in 2013, looking at these assumptions of science and the needs of society, we amended the law on the registration of acts, and so we were able to bring the gender change for the first time to legislation, although there was long-standing intent and our relative positions. So, on the one hand, the change of registered sex took place, with the correction of the registration act and, on the other hand, the right to the management of human life and, on the other hand, the possibility of full redefinition of gender. However, there is a need for a judicial decision, i.e. in accordance with the procedure of voluntary jurisdiction and in-depth review by a judge, in order to be able to rule on the substance of the matter. Therefore, since gender change was possible and took place, the legal consequences of this change were also forthcoming. Therefore, typically someone who changed sex could also adopt and engage in political marriage with a heterosexual. A similar marriage between heterogeneous and now homonymous would be insurmountable. Until recently, however, the case law of the Greek courts - take note, Minister, not the legislation, as you wish to do, and I will explain it below - required two means of evidence as a rule: Firstly, a psychiatric diagnosis that confirms the disharmony between the gender registration and the real gender that was and, secondly, that there has been a gender-change operation. With regard to the second condition, that is to say, there is a clear attitude to the legislation of most European countries - states, but also to the case-law of the European Court of Justice against this compulsoryity, and rightly so, because Article 8 of the Convention on Human Rights is infringed and there can be no obligation. However, with regard to the first condition, that is to say, the presentation of a certain amount of psychiatric or medical opinion that the court has judged, which confirms this disharmony of the sex, things are less clearly. Some European countries, a minority, Denmark, France, Norway, Ireland and Malta have also incorporated this dimension into their legislation, namely, the non-mandatory presentation of such an opinion.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u291	Without a judicial decision.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u292	That's what I'm saying, the minority. Listen, Mr. Lappa, listen carefully. It is one thing to plunder and simplify things, and another to get into the core of a case. Take note, however, of the European Court of Human Rights' own decision, which considered the subject of the ECHR, namely, the European Convention on Human Rights to be a matter for the European Convention on Occupational Occupational Occupational Occupational Occupational Occupational Occupational Occupational Occupational Occupational Occupational Occupational Occupational Occupational Occupational Occupational Occupational Occupational Occupational Occupational Disposition or any other medical opinion. After all - and here is the crucial issue, which you have not taken on - the European Court of Human Rights for the correction of sex does not impose on the Member States of the European Union which, in particular, need to have conditions for the correction of gender. This allows the national legislature to determine it. In other words, the Member States of the European Union must establish the necessary administrative and, above all, legal system for the legal recognition of the re-definition of gender, but without the SAD being binding on the country. It is therefore not contrary - and it has never been - to the New Democracy by means of legal recognition of gender identity. But we are opposed to the procedure introduced and the conditions laid down in the bill. That is why we are voting against. On the basis of the now references to the bill, Articles 3 and 4 become crucial. According to this, the jurisdiction of the courts is maintained - the exercise of jurisdiction, i.e. - and a personal statement of the applicant is required in a private office without publicity. In accordance with Article 4(4), this procedure may be repeated once again. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I would like a bit of your tolerance because the previous Presidents have given up to three minutes. Take note now: In theory the procedure of voluntary jurisdiction falls short of a wide range of powers and initiatives in order to end up in court. However, Article 3(4) provides that medical treatment is not required. In addition, it provides that no medical certificate of any kind is required. The vote on this article as it stands will therefore make the country of the small club of European countries I mentioned earlier, namely Ireland, Denmark, Malta and Finland. Attention now. The question arises whether the judge, although not obliged to provide a medical certificate, may ask if he has not been convinced by other evidence produced that there is indeed an inconsistency between a registered sex and gender identity. If it is considered that he is not able to do so, his judicial judgment may become an absolute formal procedure for accepting each application. There is, however, also a risk of a positive or negative decision not based on a secure judicial judgement. Minister, I remind you - you have good lawyers, Mrs Kozobol, Mr Lappa - Article 744 of the Code of Civil Procedure. Have you seen it or have you been confined to Article 782? See what Article 744 says? It gives the judge full freedom to exercise jurisdiction, which, as a lex specialis, cannot be restricted by these issues that you put. You would create not only contradictory decisions, but all would be undeniable. Look at Article 744. I'll read it in a few minutes. The equivalent to the above arguments is that the supposedly 'progressive' view of human rights stipulates that every man should enjoy the absolute right to self-orientation. This could, of course, be right, as I say, if there were no provisions of public order, namely marriage, adoption, nationality - the acquisition of it, namely - and military obligations. I will set an example, and I will finish. The law that you have spent the previous period, namely the pact between two homogenees, is not allowed to marry as an object in the public policy provisions of the Civil Code, nor is it allowed to adopt it. So someone virtually goes - let's assume I'm with someone else - who's made a cohabitation agreement. So I go only with my statement to the judge and say to him 'I want to change sex'. If we limit ourselves to that, then if we change gender, I will be able to make a marriage and adopt it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, these are very critical. Perhaps some New Democracy colleagues will give me half a minute each. Two more minutes, I'd like to.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u293	One minute from each!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u294	Listen. There goes one of the same couples of homogeneous couples...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u295	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u296	That's what's undercover, sir. That's what they want to do - and I'll explain - with the previous piece of legislation. That is why they dismantled rather than inappropriate. It was rejected not by a provision in the bill but by a parliamentary amendment. It's all interconnected. It wasn't Mr. Kontonis, his predecessor, but SYRIZA. They were here full of the galleries and applauded. That's what's going on. So one of the two of the same couples goes, says "I'm female, I'm changing" and then they go for adoption. So you realise how this child will grow up if they adopt a male child, what psychological problems he will have, because you must not forget that adoption is in the interests of the child, the adopted child and not of them. It's a public order. Therefore, it would be useful to ensure this. But don't tell me, Minister, that can be done now. If possible, remove paragraph 4, I think, of Article 3. Why are you limiting? Let the judge free himself with Article 744 of the Code of Civil Procedure to judge any appropriate evidence there is to end this matter. So the target is another. This requirement that was in existence by this group - I am not wrong, their right - is the forerunner of marriage and adoption in this way. While there is a possibility for the judge to judge the conditions, as the public jurisdiction requires, this is not the case. I would just like to say one word on the matter of Part II, because on my day the National Action Plan for the Rights of the Child was drawn up. In this bill, however, Minister, I do not see any arrangements for the rights of children living in institutions. It's a big chapter. Mrs Kozobol knows these issues, as is other issues. I must also say publicly from this House - because we are not negative at all - that, on its days, the Sanctions Committee was indeed upgraded and all parties, with no exceptions, are helping in this direction. So look at this issue for children in institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u297	Thank you, Mr. Athanasios. Mrs Anagnostopoulou, Member of the SYRIZA, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u298	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law introduced in the House to debate and vote is about to regulate a political, moral, social and legal standstill, create conditions for consolidating democracy, ensure the minimum human rights in that extremely vulnerable part of the citizens, for whom the internal, personal way of experiencing their gender deviates from what was registered in the birth order. It comes to create conditions of respect and protection of human value, to institutionalise the right of self-determination. Most of the time it is inappropriate to talk about something that is an obligation, something considered or should be considered self-evident, but not today, not at this time. I shall say, above all, that we have come to this point, in order to vote for this bill, since we have had claims from a community, the LOTKI community. Let us not forget that there is a structured space - a minority - of people who have been claiming for years. Those who had open eyes and ears to hear understood what these people are going through. The debates held in Parliament's committees were very informative, even for those who did not know, in order to learn. However, I would like to say that, as far as our party, SYRIZA, has been concerned, what the LOTKI community has claimed for years has been a party property. So it's not something that we discovered and got out of our pocket all of a sudden, to avoid other issues. It was our obligation to deal with the decisions we have made. I said at the outset, therefore, that it was the state's duty to bring the legal regulation of the gender identity issue here in this House. Everyone said, like our rapporteur and SYRIZA MPs, that the state had to comply with the legal data, respond to the intervention of the Citizens' Counselor, as we are all supposed to respect the independent authorities and adapt to the obligations arising from International Law. All this, therefore, the claims of the LGBTK community always, the movement they made, converged from now on, that the process of gender change had to be changed, that there was no need for psychiatric diagnosis and, above all, surgery. If for some people it's considered a derogation to the laws of nature, to divine laws - I don't know - etc. the gender identity change, I would like to ask this: is it not that the surgery that sterilises people, which immobilizes people, so that we can put things in the way they are? Isn't the Constitution being violated in his fundamental articles, which our rapporteur said anyway? I will not go into that. Therefore, it was an obligation of the state, because social and economic development at individual and social level, on staff and national, is incompatible with the mutilation of people, as is incompatible with the mutilation of the natural environment in Skouria, as is incompatible with the mutilation of the cultural environment in the Greek or with the mutilation of the public interest in the case of television licences. I would like to say with this that respect for legality has been made in a time of crisis and, above all, with the rise of the extreme right, a radical demand. What has become a radical demand for urban parties has become a given. Legal recognition of gender identity is not in the air. It is linked to all that is not amputation, because legality must be respected, so that is where it becomes radical. I would like to say, ladies and gentlemen, that here today, in this House, as always in this House, neither are we talking about anyone's religious attitude, his faith, nor anything like that. When parliamentarians legislate, they legislate on the basis of the rules of the law, their ideology and their political programmes. There can be no question of discussing the decision of the Sacred Session or of proving - and I am sorry, colleagues of the New Democracy - the over-right turn of the New Democracy when the Vice-President of your party comes here and calls on the Minister to make a confession of faith. Where, after two hundred years of free life of this state, after two hundred years of enlightenment, a minister or Members of Parliament have been abdicating us for being atheist. Faith is a personal matter. This is guaranteed and we cannot go back to the post-war state and present a certificate of opinions here when we talk about a political ideological issue, because this is an indirect or direct intimidation of people themselves at the time they legislate. One final point, Mr President - I will take one minute - is that voting on this bill is a matter of democracy. It is not a question of 'rightful', as some present it, and here I will show my disagreement with the Communist Party of Greece. It is the main content of democracy, because people are being manipulated which are invisible. A democracy is radical when it brings to the surface, it makes all individuals who were not visible. I would like to ask the following question: Before the October revolution, Minister, why was it that the programmes of the socialist and communist parties first spoke about individual rights and, indeed, much more advanced than what we are discussing here today or Europe? Because individual rights make collective consciences and because without reasonable conscience you cannot make any transformation of society, you cannot claim anything. Let us move on to a final point on the issue of democracy. The fragmentation of society according to diversity - natural, linguistic, colored, racial and others - is what undermines the class formation of society. The Socialists and Communists of the early 20th century knew this. We're not gonna find out any more letters from the beginning. From this uterus we come from. And we don't need a psychologist. Because that really insults me. I believe that voting in favour of this bill is an obligation of a favoured state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u299	Thank you, too. I have the honour to inform the House that a request was made for a roll-call vote on the Golden Dawn, pursuant to Rule 72(1) of the Rules of Procedure, on Rules 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7, as well as on Amendment No 1276/113 of the draft law entitled 'Legal recognition of sex - National Mechanism for the Training, Monitoring and Evaluation of Action Plans for the Rights of the Child and other Provisions'. The roll-call vote will take place tomorrow at 13.00 a.m. Mr Amyras, Parliamentary Representative of the River.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u300	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the public dialogue on the legal recognition of gender identity reminds me, to some extent, of the non-quality of the dialogue two years ago on the coexistence agreement. A few shells fell, and then, and now, racism, homophobia. We stepped into an endless number of ignorance and half-less mines, while things are simple and much less scary in the minds of those who see them as such. We're not talking about anything terrible here. We are talking about the possibility that a transgender person may be able to correct his papers against the administration. How did we get here? Is it a big revolution? Oh, no. First of all, we have come from the case-law of the Greek courts. Twelve the number of irrevocable judicial decisions - I will not stop saying that - by the Athens and Thessaloniki courts, who have said and said the self-evident, what the UN has said and the European Court of Human Rights and the Convention on Human Rights, that it is not allowed, that it is torture, that forced surgery is another era, because it is amputation and it is sterilization. Should we not take that into account? So we only want the decisions of the UN when they talk about Cyprus? When they talk about individual rights, about human freedom to define himself? Let's take a little walk abroad, though I heard things about what goes on in various countries. Some don't apply the way I heard them. Anyway, we're going to Canada. He has to have an empty entry in the passports. A "X" is given for intersex and trans people. We're going to Argentina. Since 2012, there has been a law and a review of documents, without prior judicial or medical proceedings for adults over eighteen, and for minors: with parental consent. To come to Europe, Denmark, Ireland, Malta: In the last three years it has been possible to correct without the slightest delay with completion of documents, without surgery, without sterilisation, without psychiatric assessment. In the Netherlands, gender may be recorded as unspecified in official documents. Same in Australia. So is New Zealand. Not to tell you about Nepal. Nepal has the third gender category in the electoral lists, in the polls and in the passports. If anyone wants to get her out of the left to Mr. Contonis, it's too easy. And I'm talking about Article 3 for the fifteen years. Until now that the landscape was unregulated, a minor, with the parental consent, could proceed to correct his documents, be six years old, be seven, be eight, be four. So I want to get her out to Mr. Contonis and say to him: "Who do you see Contonis? It's a conservative thing. He puts a "tatan" over which you can move, or rather puts a "top" over which you can move, in the fifteen years, while now there was no such thing. It is a more conservative arrangement." And time limits. The age of eighteen - I hear - must be. Then a police ID will have to be eighteen, not fourteen. Why do we get a police ID at fourteen? Let's go down. I want to say two words about the Church. First of all, let's not shoot the Church. The Church is addressed to her flock. Whoever wants to follow her teachings, whoever wants to follow them doesn't. That is the beauty of freedom, choices and will.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u301	Like this.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u302	There must be respect. There must be respect for the Church and the Church, of course, for the state and the citizens. He needs a run-in. I even read online - I did not know about the wish that the Church has made: "In the name of a new sex change, Timothy Matthew, Metropolitan at the time, N. Ionia and Philadelphia, Engelion Evangelical, Edition 2, Athens 1985." And I'll testify. What's he saying? "Go and cherish, Lord, etc., etc.... I despise this (this) in thy name of Heaven, in the development of an organic transformation of sex...'. And it goes on to say, "Grand thy servant (twelve or thy servant)" in Shaw's sanctuary." I shall put it to the Minutes so that colleagues can see it. [[At this point, the Member, George Amyras, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So I want to say that the man who made all kinds of people, that is, God, has his hug open to everyone. But is faith at risk? Tell me you: Haven't it been twenty years since the religion was removed from the identities? Tell me: Has anyone's faith been at stake? How many years of political marriage?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u303	Thirty-five.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u304	Forty years. Do you see the foundations of the family or of the faith of the people to the Church shattered? Anyone who wants to believe. Anyone who wants to hear the church call and something says and responds. However, one must also talk about transgender people who have a life through abuse, and not just - physical violence, bowling, contempt, exclusion. Tell me, do you: How many trans citizens have you seen working in public services? Leave the public services. In the private sector? There's a blockade. So someone in Greece in 2017 needs to talk about self-evidently, that the recognition of each citizen's rights, even one being the number, is a one-way path for Greece. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u305	Thank you, too. The speaker of the New Democracy, Mr Konstantinos Tsiaras, has the floor. Here, Mr. Chiara, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u306	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about a bill on individual rights. And, unfortunately, this does not escape the well-known political controversy which, on many occasions, either on real, or on constructed terms, retains the interest. Like every bill, it actually has two aspects: one is politics and the other is legal. So if you should see the first dimension, it is certain that it would agree that for the government once again it is an opportunity to create impressions, to discuss something that may not be relevant to the difficult reality of Greek citizens, but to seek the protection of individual rights, it is obviously the essence of democracy itself. There is one question which we in New Democracy have raised for some time now and I think that once again the government finds it before it is the issue of double majority voting. It is a fact that many colleagues from the Independent Greeks have so far expressed themselves and stood up against this bill. And it is, indeed, once again a question how the government can support its own democratic legitimacy as a whole, regardless of the content of the bill, when it proposes a bill, which the Members who support it themselves have no intention of supporting it. And I say this, because 'yes' in principle, which can be 'no' to the articles, namely Article 3, which is the core of the bill, by a number of colleagues from the Independent Greeks, is obviously a huge issue of majority. It recommends a huge issue that is stated. And that at some point needs to be answered responsibly. To claim - the Minister or his fellow Members - that the New Democracy's attitude to such a matter is hypocritical, I think it is unique that at some point you also have to treat your own declared in the field of the Greek Parliament with dignity. This is because, quite simply, the reintroduction of a debate which, to a very large extent, shows that there is a difference of opinion, but, in any case, when there are conditions, conditions and rules, we can agree. And you understand very well what I mean. There was a debate in plenary in the Greek Parliament on the establishment of a committee of inquiry, and it is clear that the unequivocal support of the Prime Minister to the person of the Minister of National Defence would also have a certain effect in order to retreat to positions and opinions that had already been expressed and had raised a matter within the government. That is why we now have a bronze'retreat' in a previous position of the Independent Greeks for this bill, which is why we also have the well-known amendment tabled by the Minister and had to withdraw the last time. You realise that there are issues coming up here, which one needs to be seen through a wide-ranging approach to be just. As far as the substance of the bill is concerned, if anyone would ask in this Chamber whether democracy should defend minority rights or the right to individual rights, I would say that it would be very difficult, perhaps with exceptions, to find someone who disagreed with it. How, though, how? No rules? With a simple statement, with an opinion report? Obviously, ladies and gentlemen, you must understand that legislating on such sensitive issues also entails a huge responsibility. A responsibility which has not been mentioned, or possibly the opportunism with which you are legislating, but the real approach of a question that actually has a huge social dimension. The New Democracy, with a fully responsible approach, has tabled a draft law proposal, which I would ask Members and especially SYRIZA - the Independent Greeks do not exist in the Chamber - to see and understand how much difference there is between the approach of the legislative proposal we are debating today on the part of the Government and the draft law tabled by the Officerate. Because it's just stuff. To say that at least it is not necessary to consult a doctor who certifies not the gender identity but the conscious choice of the individual. A person who decides to change sex, ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u307	Are they sick?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u308	You know very well that with this choice it bears a mass of consequences of personal, social, environmental.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u309	Answer us: Do you consider them sick? These people aren't sick.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u310	Obviously, hiding behind a logic that there was commercialisation of such opinions or of this kind, in any case, of opinions which may, often, have caused problems for people who actually sought a view, is not an excuse. Besides, you should know and I say it to you, Mrs Cavadia, that there is a competent section at the "Aegean NOSOCOMOME", which has been working so far and will continue to function.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u311	Our difference is that we don't regard them as sick.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u312	If this section could give it the power to have precisely this role, supporting it and enabling it to give the opinion, every time, of the conscious decision of all these people, I inform you that you would have taken a much more serious step in the direction of giving a substantial and real solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u313	And the right to self-determination.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u314	I say all this because, you know, the study that New Democracy is a conservative party that cannot adapt to today's data, I think it has been answered. The law that so far exists is a law of the 1970s and any legislative intervention has taken place since then through a previous New Democracy government. So let us put aside all these tacticalisms and all this rhetoric, which is the only aim of political confrontation and not of a real approach to a question that we should all be serious about, but also of being able to see the real problem. Do you know what's missing you in all this case? That the problem of man, who really has the right to want gender change, does not end when he changes sex, but is...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u315	It doesn't change sex. Redetermining gender.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u316	When it's recognized... You are right to say that and I fully agree with you. But there is, I would say, a constant need to support all these people over a long period of time. It is not treated instantly or with a law. This provision, this effort to see seriously the real need to change identity within - I repeat - the individual right to recognition, what I really think the minority, which the current Greek Republic must protect, is not approached in any case in the seriousness and in the way that it should be. We're clear. You can see the proposal we tabled this morning. I think it includes all the issues. If and if the Minister has this brave view, let him see it, let us withdraw today's draft law and move on to a serious consultation, on the basis of a draft law that gives the real answer to this issue. In other words, you realise that the New Democracy, through these terms and under these conditions, is voting against this bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u317	Mr Karamanlis of Achilles, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u318	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I think we should be clear from the outset. The reason that this debate is taking place today is not, I think, because the government really wants to solve such a sensitive problem. Because if you really wished that, ladies and gentlemen of the government, you would not have tabled such a rough bill, a imperfect and dangerous bill, which, in our view, opens the door to Halos, and I would say it is a defect to the whole process. The real reason, therefore, and your real motive to table this bill, in our view, is to make an effort to be consistent with the so-called left sign you have, and that is why to justify the very big problems that the country's economy and the Greek society are facing today, since you are now voting on two - two. You're trying to change the agenda. Unfortunately, once again, what you do in practice is that you go to protect people in a way that eventually shows you don't respect them. Because that is what you finally do, in our view, when you allow gender change, without any scientific support, without a specialist's confirmation, when you only allow gender change with the simple will of the individual. I listen with interest to the views of all Members of Parliament from all sides of Parliament. I feel, however, that in the end we must not discover the wheel, we must not suddenly discover the powder. See what happens to other modern, democratic, liberal European states? Because, as you know, these issues have been occupied by modern states for many years. Let us see, then, what the institutional framework is applicable to countries, whose democratic figure cannot be called into question. For example, I will bring you a country that is a model of social liberalism, Great Britain, a country from which, if you like, parliamentary democracy was born. In Great Britain, then, for the certification of gender change, what they call Gender Recognition Certificate requires four very simple things. First, you have to be over eighteen years old. Second, it must have been diagnosed that you have gender discomfort. Thirdly, you have lived in your desired sex for two years and, fourthly, make sure you're not going to change your sex again. In other words, we see a serious context which, if you like, we can discuss one in one of its parts and whether or not they should apply. However, there is a serious scientific approach. I will not tell you what is happening in other countries, such as Germany or Finland, and I will not go into one case, because we see that in the European Union, even today, thirteen countries, sterilisation is imposed. We don't say that. We are a party that has actually proved respect for human rights. I would remind you, as Mr Tsiaras said earlier, that it was the New Democracy party in 1976, when no one in this country spoke of these issues, which included the provision for changing the urban situation in Law 344. The New Democracy, however, is also a party that respects and honors the traditions and values of this country. Here you will allow me to open a small parentheses, so that I can answer, if you like, the reproach we hear from many parties of the Anti-Population and Co-Population, that the Greek Church determines our position. We talk constantly and not occasionally with the Church. We are talking, but they do not force us on their point of view. We hear it from the Church and the Church listens to us, but we don't have to go to bazaars or communal visits to Mount Athos. After all, the New Democracy has always been the party that believed that Church and State are moving in distinct contexts, with mutual respect. We oppose the State deciding on matters relating to the Church, without dialogue with it. As we are opposed to a policy of lambs. Of course, I think we will all agree that we should be opposed to opening a conflict with the Church today, while society is already injured by the biggest post-war crisis our country is experiencing. So in the New Democracy, we are not just liberal in economic matters. We are also liberal in social matters. Besides, in my opinion, you can't be one without being the other. Because it has recently opened up a very large dialogue on what liberalism is and what is not it, I will remind you that it was our party that has acted as a model for other countries as well. I would remind you that it was our party that in 1974 legalised the Communist Party of Greece. It was our party that solved the state with a referendum that was not called into question by anyone. And it was our party that introduced the primary language in 1976 and solved the huge language issue. As an open party, therefore, we are in favour of the aristotle measure and the middle street, the path of logic. We despise the extremities. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen of the government, what you are bringing today is far from the point of view. Why, beware, this bill we are discussing today is not liberal. It's dangerous and it's totally problematic. This is, unfortunately, the truth, because on the one hand you are facing such a sensitive subject and on the other hand, with greater urgency, you are trying to use it on the other. The New Democracy has tabled a very specific proposal for a law, which, like any serious centre-right party, has to do, sets the framework - and that is what is missing from your bill. It is a serious proposal, a proposal weighed, a proposal of the measure, the result of a constructive dialogue, which must also be opened in society. It is therefore our intention to open this dialogue seriously and with respect to these people. Because sensitive social issues do not want extremes. They require dialogue and political consensus. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u319	Thank you, too. SYRIZA MEP Mr Spyridon Lappas has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u320	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Karamanlis just came down from Stepma, who succeeded Mr. Chiara. I remember, Mr President, in the Commission working on this bill, the first placement of your rapporteur, Mr Karaguini, I do not see him here - was that he is standing positively at the start of the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u321	Carry on.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u322	No, you're wrong. Every time, there was a diversion from the positive attitude towards the bill to the reservation.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u323	It's slipped.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u324	Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u325	You're not listening. It was a positive statement by Mr Karagunis, and he was standing positive at the outset of the bill. It was cut off at the last meeting of the committee to reach the vote today. Do you know why? Because it seems that the extreme voice within your party is very strong. You have arrived today to bring in a bill on the day that is being discussed in plenary. Let's do this to the committee. Let us say that you have another attitude, another philosophy, another concept, another policy that you did not have. You didn't have another proposal. That's the truth. We heard that in committee. In fact, the meetings of the committees were long, Mr Voridis. You didn't tell us anything about another thought. You only told us that you were standing positive at the start of the bill and that you would see the articles. You have come to the reservation and finally to the vote. Congratulations.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u326	He did not say positive in principle. That there's a positive one he said.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u327	So I think this bill is a exercise of rights.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u328	We cannot guarantee that, Mr Vorides, with primary initiatives. That's self-protection.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u329	Mr. Lappa and Mr. Voridis, please don't have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u330	I do not mind, Mr President, the dialogue. "One of the different kinds in harmony." Heraklitos said so too. The differences are coming from harmony. I therefore believe that this bill is a exercise of rights. It is a legislative initiative in the field of private autonomy. In this sense, this bill is an initiative to defend the established human rights, which now also wants to see an institution in legislating, in the rule of law and in the state of social coexistence. At the outset, Mr President, I must say that some things have been heard and some theories that individual rights cannot be separable in Greek society or in any society if it is not combined or paralleled or if it is not related or if it is not shared with social rights. I guess some people have a huge confusion. I am mainly addressing the JRC's colleagues. I think you have your opinion, but it is wrong. The individual right, ladies and gentlemen, is conquered by the citizens of all democratic societies towards the state. It's not a provision. It is a defensive right which forbids the state to intervene in its private interests. That's right. And it's a conquest when it's included as a provision in the Constitutions. It's a result of racing and sacrifices and blood. And is it a conquest of what fights? The Left has always been front. If you remember the '50s and '60s, what was the Left's worth? What was the 114th article of the '52 Constitution? Keep the legality. Why? Because, gentlemen, it gives the left to develop its ideas, to take its initiatives and to table its proposals. That's it. First of all, then, individual rights are inconsistent with nothing. It is without distinction, without precondition, without criteria. As the Constitution's analysis says, at least its Marxist philosophy, is an unconditional enjoyment of the legitimate interest enshrined in the right. Secondly, I will respond by addressing the Members of the New Democracy in particular. Law 344/1976 was the one who discovered pyropsy, Mr Karamanlis, about transgender individuals. This was in '76, about forty years ago and under the circumstances at the time. What are we doing today? What do we have to do? Do we have to change the explanatory statement and the feasibility of the '76 bill? No, of course not. Let's fix it. Because now, not only the Greek courts in their case-law, but factors, international organisations, courts, bodies, Europeans and international bodies have been involved anyway. We have made external law superlegislative, in fact, power. What does that mean to lawyers? If a convention, whether European or international, which we have made internal law conflicts with a legal provision of the country, the view of the European and international convention prevails. That means over-legislative power. So they come and tell us what? That what was foreseen by Law 344/1976, in particular the mutilation that constitutes torture, is not understood in our day and this comes to do the bill. What's he doing? It eliminates what does not meet today's needs. That's what he says. What can I remind you of? May I remind you of the World Health Organisation, the most competent body to decide whether this is a disease or a natural one, and is it the right of people to declare the racial transition? Can we talk about the courts? What do you want to say? Can the European Council say? Should we say in the recommendation of 1 February 2013, recently, three and a half years ago? He says: "Every intervention and obligation to carry out any medical examination constitutes torture." Do not accept this country? Shouldn't we include it in the bill? With regard to the second point you said, Mr Vorides, this clever one I think of you and I always think that you are a smart and intelligent man and a good legal person, but will we aspire to be your ideological opponents, when you say that we are actually doing legal activism and intercepting one - I do not know how you term it - rightfulness, are you serious? When we talk about individual rights, do we have legal activism? Are you serious when you say that we are struggling with an unreasonable right? You may be identifiable in terms of the decision of the Holy Synod, but that is your right, but I would tell you that a debate on individual rights takes precedence over it. And here we have to be clean. Do you accept it, yes or no? It's constitutional predictions. I said before about how these rights were guaranteed in our Constitution: Article 2 on human dignity, Article 4 on equality against the law, Article 5 on freedom of movement for everyone, without any precondition, of discrimination, no criterion, and Article 9 on making his private and family life as he wants, without any discrimination. Shall we go to the texts of European and international conventions? They are even more in favour of individual rights. I will tell my friends of the JRC, are you suddenly saying that this auction in favour of individual rights is above? So the people of Europe have not recorded in their collective conscience and in their political struggles and sacrifices for civil and political rights? You're saying they've been given some individual rights from above? There is no individual right that has been given, in any constitution in the country, to any people throughout the world, internationally, ladies and gentlemen. If you find one, bring it here and I'll say I'm wrong. Bring me an individual right given on the side of any power to the rulers, and I will say that you are right and I am wrong in all the criticism you have made to us over the last two and a half years. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will end in a minute, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u331	When did we say that?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u332	We've been talking to the committee, Mr. Delis. I don't want to say it here. Another issue that we have said in committee, and it must be made clear and said in plenary, is that individual rights do not depend on any relation between a majority and a minority. I said to the committee, and now I repeat, it is also the courts and the Greek and international courts that a million people should have the alpha point of view, if one disagrees, it is an obligation for a favoured, just and just state to enshrine with institutions, in its Constitution, in particular, the rights of a person who disagrees. That is where the democratic conscience of both a society and a state is judged, not the law of a majority. It shall not mean a majority and an individual right. What is the blessing on what I'm telling you right now? And I'll be done. There are twelve judicial decisions, which have become irrevocable, that is, they cannot be offended by any legal means or by anyone, who has said what the bill says much earlier than the bill. Twelve judgments of the Greek courts and they are all of the court of peace, except for one which is the only court of first instance. What have they said? That any claim for medical intervention or any other element abolishes the right of self-determination and in this sense is unconstitutional. I shall close, Mr President, with one last. I would like to say to those who are bidders in favour of the Church's views in Greece that the announcement of the Holy Synod, Mr Voridis, reminded me of the luxurious conception of rights and charity. Can I tell you why? Because it reminded me of western Protestantism, for punishment is outside the teaching and theology of the Eastern Church. It's outside, there's no punishment. Luther said: "Someone must be pissed off by the wrath of God." On the contrary, Christianity - supposedly - teach and theology, because love and charity are also necessary, as are individual rights. If you would like me to say something in your sense, I tell you Luke, who had said when some of the Jews were angry: “Become merciful, as well as your Father of merciful stoves.” Why am I saying that? Because if our Church continues to do so, any minority minority in society is to treat it as something abnormal, it will no longer end up listening to the preaching of a large number of people. I compare it to a pope's attitude...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u333	Everyone has an opinion. Should the Church not have an opinion?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u334	Clearly he must have an opinion. We're not talking about opinions. I tell you that when the Pope, two years ago, asked Italy to say something about homosexuals, he said the famous: “Who am I? "I am God to judge my fellow humans?" I shall close with one final sentence, Mr President, of Luther King. I said that to the committee. "If there is injustice somewhere for some, justice is threatened everywhere and for all. It is true that the law cannot give me the right to oblige someone to love me, but it can prevent him from lynxing me when he wants to or in any case." [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over, Mr Nikolaos BOUTSIS]] I also mentioned something I said about the Roman era...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u335	Mr. Lappa, finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u336	I would just mention one phrase and I shall end, Mr President. A phrase of Petronius: 'Sol omnibus Lucet', Mr Vorides. The sun shines for everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u337	Thank you. Mr. Doussina has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u338	Thank you, Mr President. After Mr Lappa, whose legal thought is honoured by this House, I shall speak to you a little more philosophically, because I have heard many colleagues deal with such matters. In April 1872 a lady named 'Timia English' published a letter to the British MPs in London entitled 'TIMES': 'They are women's animals'. I quote: 'If women are equal to men, they are discussed without answer, whether they have a soul remains deeply questioned. Would it be excessive, however, to ask Members to'recognise that at least women are animals? Thus, ruthless cruelty to dogs, cats and women will be prohibited.’ Someone said about England before, they don't know well. Until 1929, when a civil rights law contained the word 'person', it did not include women. The husbands could unpunishedly rape their wives until 1995. Mr. Mavrotas mentioned Alan Turing's case, of the greatest forms, a genius of the twentieth century, which created the computer and helped win the war. Turing was sentenced for homosexual, obscene actions in 1952 and killed himself in 1954. I take these from Joanna Burke's book "What it means to be human," that is what it means to be human. Why am I saying that? Because we are all going to say: "We know, child, what a man means, we are all human here," but, if you look at history, big categories of people, those we consider to be human, they did not have and they have no fundamental rights. For long periods of time those who do not speak our language do not believe our religion do not belong to the right order, sex, color, or sexuality were outside man’s quality. They were people biologically and ontologically, but not socially and politically, because they did not recognize their rights, but the basic feature of their identity. They do not, therefore, belong to human rights, as we hear commonly, to people because they are human beings. On the contrary, someone gets more...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u339	Quiet, Mr. Yakumato. Quiet. You're welcome. We said, philosophical speech will be made by my colleague, but you will not react. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u340	Look, decency and parliamentary order are often lacking by many colleagues, not by you. So let's leave it at the moment. Because I may be a recent MEP, but I understand from courtesy and decency.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u341	We're the ones you're talking about.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u342	Thank you very much. I'll give you my books then read. They do not, therefore, belong to human rights in people because they are human beings, but someone becomes more or less human beings because they have more or less rights. This is the situation today with transgender and mesmeric. They are second-class people, not because their rights are not recognised, but because the main feature of their identity is not recognized. Let me generalize, because that's true for everyone. The identity of all of us is built in a lasting dialogue and a struggle for recognition. Our identity emerges through a conversation with others and the "large other" that some say, "law and institutions, and other people, who recognize features, qualities and attributes as "ours", "mys" and so help me to shape the sense of self." Fair is a tool and a result of this dialectical, and this is the fundamental truth behind the logic of today's bill. The law recognizes their identity so that they can enter a dialogue and fight for recognition with fellow humans. I would add that in a society that is proud of the presence and guarantee of formal equality - not of the essential - of equality, the small excluded part of this society, the 'invisible part', as some other colleagues have said, is the representative of the Catholic and of the whole, that is to say, the representative of all of us. Because, when these people are excluded, the principle of equality which we all stand for and honour is being violated for all of us. To finish, though, by saying two words about nature, which I heard several times ago, who, okay, people don't read, don't understand. A pigeon would die of hunger next to a basin with the best meats and a cat on piles of fruit, although each one could well feed from the food he despise, provided he decided to try. But he doesn't. So let us compare the animal, the dove and the cat, with the hunger striker, with the witness for religion, for the nation, for ideology. The animals follow nature, follow the law of nature that has been laid down for them and cannot be violated, as Jean-Jack Russo says. The man, on the contrary, is free, precisely because he can die of his freedom. Freedom means autonomy, choice to go against nature, against need, desire or custom that tells the hunger strikeer to stop suffering, eating, drinking, surviving. So the substance of man, if we would call it "human nature", is his ability to move away from the natural or social codes, the first or second nature, as it is called, and always start from the beginning. Nature determines the animal. The will determines the man through his autonomy, a part of which is the self-determination we are discussing today. So that makes the bill of the Minister and the Ministry we are discussing. It allows our fellow people, in a minority of few, one and a half million, to be counted throughout Europe, but it represents the universal, the whole, universal, it allows them to be recognised legally as human beings. By doing this, it makes us all the rest of the more people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u343	Thank you very much, my colleague. Mrs Catherine Papacosta - Ironopoulou has the floor and the Minister then has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u344	Thank you very much, Mr President. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to take the thread from where the previous colleague left it, who has just come down from here, to take the step. Solon, ladies and gentlemen, said that in democracy even one citizen if he feels wrong, if he feels discomfort with the decisions of democracy, then democracy has a problem. In this sense, therefore, the European Community, rightly the European International Court of Justice, is right to legislate over time and must legislate in favour of those who are extremely vulnerable, even when this group is extremely small and therefore has no electoral interest. So, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to tell you that, because a lot of criticism has been made by fellow Members of the House that the New Democracy, this great historical party, has been allegedly blamed for a conception of individual rights and respect for diversity and respect for personality, I must tell you that you are really completely unfair and, furthermore, you are disorientated from public opinion, which does not follow you to that perception. Why do I have to tell you that our decisions and our governmental life and our government's state and, in particular, our ideological identity are guided by a basic principle, the aristotle principle of measure and mediacy. What defines this aristotle measure? The excellent measure, ladies and gentlemen, from which all the political and ideological platforms and the behaviour of the New Democracy are involved, lies between exaggeration and lack. Our exercise, therefore, of our New Democracy, in mediation ensures the right act. Mediation is the rule of any human virtue. This is the beginning and attitude of Greek and Latin humanism. This attitude of the aristotle measure and the mediation imposed on the New Democracy in 1976 and its founder, Konstantinos Karamanlis, to legislate in a way which, today, on 2017, allows us to ratify the legal development on the existing legislation and, of course, - because the conditions and procedure for the management of the gender are changed - to harmonise with the ruling of the European Court of Justice and to ratify with the legislative initiative as a Greek Parliament this legislative development. At the same time, the Greek courts also imposed this, by pressing on this legislative initiative of the New Democracy, which was precisely referred to the dominant element of our ideological identity - at the heart of our policy is the man - who is social liberalism. So away from us such charges. If you are criticising us because during the debate on the draft law of the Government in the committee responsible, the proposal for a law of the New Democracy is acceptable. But you do not really answer us now that it has been tabled. So tell us if you agree or disagree with the substance and content of this proposal. This would have a value and a policy in the direction of sound legislation. But you did not answer that when I heard a debate about why you did not bring it to us. But that's not the point. The point is that you have tabled a proposal for a law on the part of Officers. It is a concrete proposal, which I must tell you is also a problem of conflict within the subject area of the judge's subjective perception. We put the judge on the basis of your legislative initiative to judge on the basis of what he sees, without any other conditions. This conflict is eliminated by the proposal for a law of the New Democracy. Because what's he doing? It's self-evident. For minors, along with parental consent, a multidisciplinary committee is set up, which regulates and recommends this issue, which is extremely sensitive to minority. The same must be done to help the judge, but also the party, the applicant, to resolve the matter quickly, without any time-consuming procedures. Because be careful what is going to happen here, Minister and fellow Members. There is no problem with the committee being set up. In adults, however, the judge will judge on the basis of his subjective judgment and without any other condition. So there you are taking the applicant, the transgender or anyone else who wants to change, administratively correct the elements of his identity based on his own self-determination, to a subjective concept which can be correct, but which can be wrong and you are turning the decision from the judge to the burden that justice has - to a second extent, with costs, that is, costs, to the applicant, who very quickly wants to deal with his issue, without stigmatisation, without marginalisation, with procedures which will be simplified, but not without guarantees. The judge is therefore inconvenienced and the applicant does not solve his problem, since, in fact, you are taking him to a second degree, if the subjective judge's judgment is wrong without preconditions. I would like to say, ladies and gentlemen, that respect for diversity must not have a left-hand or other sign, as I have heard previous colleagues say. He must have a social mark. We legislate and propose this draft law in a social context. Neither left-hand nor right-hand-handed nor another mark. In that sense, then, the left right in this place should stop, so that we can move forward. Something about the Church. Listen to this: To be fair, because this is where the political world has been divided into zealists in favour of the Church and against opposers, in wars, in 'Green' and in 'Venetus', in the arena of this division and in the exercise of politics at the expense of the Church, one must not serve from the political world, at least from what we call 'the cuts of the constitutional-democratic arch'. Why? I will tell you, ladies and gentlemen, a very great deal of truth: the Church accepts what the judge so far accepts. We cannot deny that to her. I have to tell you something else. With regard to us, New Democracy, I must tell you that the Constitution - which has again introduced and created a democracy of forty years undisturbed and smooth, despite the ideological, if you wish, which makes sense, despite the economic crisis, accepted and accepted the separation of Church and State. So far from New Democracy these accusations, much more they don't match, and society doesn't listen to them. Finally, I would like to say that you will do well to see this draft law because it has nothing to do with ideology, it has nothing to do with an exercise of opposition policy at the expense of the government's legislative initiative. It really has to do with a serious improvement in your legislative initiative, for the benefit of people who want regulation on their issues, with respect for their differential and social status. In this sense, therefore, I support this draft law proposal and I would ask colleagues of all the wings to see it more carefully. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u345	Thank you. The Minister for Justice, Mr Stavros Kontonis, has the floor for eighteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u346	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, several speakers have repeatedly raised the question of what the situation today is in Europe in the Council of Europe. I would therefore like to inform you that Malta, Austria, Germany, Croatia, Switzerland, Moldova and Belarus have no age limitation. Ireland has the fourth year and it has already been consulted at the moment - it has started - for the twelfth year. In Norway from the sixth year to the sixth, parents submit the application. In the Netherlands from the sixteenth, without any condition. Portugal, Luxembourg, Belgium, Lithuania, Spain and the United Kingdom are in the process of revision, to bring the limit from twelve to fourteen. That's the situation. Why do I mention it? I don't mention it to say that, because others do, we have to do it too. We propose this because we believe it is a positive measure, in the right direction. However, the fact that similar practice exists in the other states of Europe is something that is totally encouraging and cancels the arguments of all those who say that Greece is in a small group of European countries, as if it were a precondition for the government's legislative initiative and for the legislative resolution of laws by Parliament what other states do. Ladies and gentlemen, what is the political conclusion of today's debate? I think the political conclusion is simple: the extreme right, which emphasizes the New Democracy, prevailed against the state of liberal ideas and perceptions. I say this because we have had a constant spread - not to say a move - from the first committee meeting to the plenary to what the New Democracy wants and wishes for this bill. It was characteristic of the view expressed by the party rapporteur in committee that it is moving in a positive direction, and it is also understandable that today the New Democracy has made some provisions at the last hour to justify its negative vote - take note - not on the articles, but also on the principle. So while the bill was in a positive direction, today we have heard that the New Democracy will vote against it. It is clear that there is a dispute within the New Democracy, a dispute of what will prevail, the extreme right wing, with the extreme right rhetoric that we see in the last period, or other views, which can be termed more liberal than far-right. Ladies and gentlemen, it is also obvious that the leadership of the New Democracy in the last period has made up its conservative views and perceptions. You remember the positions of its officials on the issues of the Estonian Conference, the extreme anti-communism, which matched communist ideology with Nazism. Some of them were matching the Marx Chapter with Hitler's "Watch". Is that all it was? Mr. Mitsotakis' report on God's inequality in a society what is it? Isn't that an extreme conservative reason, an extreme reason for categorisation? This is because in the New Democracy they believe they are pressed by the extreme right, even by the Golden Dawn party. But you must know something: As long as you are involved in this rhetoric and as much as you are following these views as you lose, because the political hegemony you do not have it, they have it. It is no coincidence that in this Chamber today you came with arguments - quite rightly - of what happened in 1974, 1975 and 1976 by Constantine Karamanlis. You spoke from this one, the Step forward to abolishing the monarchy institution, you spoke about the legalisation of the Communist parties in 1974, you spoke about the particular law that allowed the imprisonment, which your extreme right was prosecuting at that time. But then, that New Democracy fought against the far right, and today you drag behind the far right and far right rhetoric. This should concern you as to where you go and what you want to build. Ladies and gentlemen, however, we must make a historic regression here. What did your party say when similar bills from the 1980s and then came to Parliament for a vote? Many Members of the SYRIZA, the River and the Democratic Partnership mentioned it. Remember with the political marriage what your party's position was. Do you remember her? You were completely negative and you said you would abolish him when you came to power. Do you remember what your party thought about the abolition of adultery? It was completely negative again, and you said the same thing before, that you would bring back the crime of adultery when you came to power. Do you remember what you said about divorce, which is based on a strong breakdown due to a four-year dimension? Do you remember that? You said it was a bomb on the foundations of society and the family, and, suddenly, after the vote, everyone will come out to get the - unwittingly called then - 'automatic divorce'. What happened to all this, ladies and gentlemen? What happened to all this? Incidentally, since 1981, where these legislations refer, there has been a matching of your evenings with the views of the Church. This must concern you, the Church, the Holy Synod and the Archbishop. Not to mention, ladies and gentlemen, what has happened with the identities. Recall that not the members of the New Democracy came blessedly, but its MPs and its president, Mr Karamanlis, then, to sign the referendum that the Church did. You even said in this regard that, returning to power, you will restore the registration of the religion in identities. What kind of stuff did you do? Nothing! One void reason, a shirt empty, a zero, only for the sake of micro-political reasons, for reasons of feasibility, to pete the ears of certain conservative or superconservative circles that are also found in the Church of Greece. In fact, proof of everything I say to you is that the 1976 law on racial transfer voted for him by you, that party of Constantine Karamanlis - and Bravo - and the Church of Greece at that time had not spoken. He didn't say anything. It's normal. After the dictatorship and after the engagement of so many high priests on many issues of that period, can he also speak to the National Lord Constantine Karamanlis? Not for a joke. Since 1981, the language of some people has been solved! That is why the Church has the right to say what it says as collective and the hierarchs have the right to speak their opinion. Nobody deprives them of it. However, no one has said that they are not entitled to speak. Mr. Voridis, I heard you before. Your MP and member of the political council of the party, Mr Economou, said the day before yesterday - if I read his statements correctly and if they were attributed properly, because sometimes the statements are different - that the work of the Church is spiritual work and has no place to interfere in these matters.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u347	Who said that?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u348	Mr. Vassilios Economou. That's what he said. I even said 'if they were properly served'. So I say to you, ladies and gentlemen, that it is good on such issues of human rights and the modernisation of law not to intrude such micro-political views and perceptions of feasibility that go back to society, instead of taking it forward. Ladies and gentlemen, we have heard another argument today. You said, 'We have brought you another proposal in complete' and you should see it and, if you judge it correctly, you should vote on it.' I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, why didn't you bring her to the government for so long and remembered today that SYRIZA brought this proposal? Why, too, are you saying that this is due to purposes? To change the subject matter of the time? But from what you can see, things about the government, about economic matters, go very well.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u349	Mr. Contonis, please don't dialogue. Do not address the Members. The President shall hold the debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u350	Do you doubt it? I tell you not to doubt, because not only do the indicators show what I am saying, but also the sworn enemies of SYRIZA, who, as of January 2015, have been trying a thousand ways to get that government down, today they say that, anyway, elections must be held in September 2019. Unless you haven't heard these from SYRIZA's sworn enemies. So, firstly, you have to justify here why you were not bringing the bill that we are bringing today, and not when you were in a one-party government, when you participated in the tripartite government with PASOK and DIMAR, which are today coming to their meeting and in honor - I have heard Mr Barriots - they say that they will vote for the bill, just like Mr Theoharopoulos. Why didn't you bring it? Your allies wanted it weakly. Why didn't you bring it to us and today you're teaching us lessons and suggestions? Ladies and gentlemen, what is the situation? I referred to the '76 law. I would like to say here that that law had been passed unanimously by the Greek Parliament and by the New Democracy and Association of the Centre - New Powers and the PASOK and the United Left, the EDAS, the JRC and the Internal JRC. So, to know what an objective and scientific approach is. There is also the historic approach to what the parties have done in this Chamber. So that law, progressive and radical for its time, reached a limit. This limit is described, ladies and gentlemen, by the decisions of the UN, which say that you cannot oblige a man to undergo surgery in order to carry out a racial transfer. It says so in the resolution of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. The decisions of the European Court of Human Rights say that we need to change something here. But that is what the rulings of the Greek courts say. In fact, I was amazed here by the reference made by many speakers in the New Democracy, who have not even told us much or much: look at it, the issue has been better regulated by the case-law and rulings of the courts. If that is the case, ladies and gentlemen, why do you table a proposal for a law? Could you tell us? After the matter has been settled, it has been resolved by the rulings of the courts, which correctly apply the ECHR, and apply the settled case law of the European Court of Human Rights and of course the provisions of the Constitution. Questions are the ones I'm trying to find a reasonable answer, but I don't find them. Unfortunately, you are not responding too. So what should we do? We should legislate in the direction that we have already worked on. It was a necessary regulation, ladies and gentlemen. It was absolutely necessary. I want to highlight three elements of the bill. Firstly, the bill in Article 2 mentions as a generic reason for moving this mechanism the will of one of our fellow humans. It also sets an additional condition: the elements of the external appearance are consistent with the will. Because you know very well that, if this debate began at some point, it was initiated by the community of our immediate fellow human beings, who said what? They said that it was not possible, showing up in a public service or in a private service, while our image was 'alpha', the elements of the identity being 'beams'. At that time we are becoming the subject of pre-conflicts, ironies and even attacks. These things have been recorded in recent years. It was a fair request, and that is why it is being implemented today. The bill also made special arrangements for our fellow citizens who want to move to prison and are seventeen years old. We identified the seventeenth year of age as the year in which the legislature has already given the right to elect Greeks and Greek women. Of course, because during civil law the cycle that has full legal capacity requires parental consent is not completed. We also made a further correction. Ladies and gentlemen, in the first debate in the committee, I remind you all that I was totally negative in bringing down the threshold from the seventeenth year of age - all of you remember, my view - is recorded in the Minutes, but the operators' hearing was mediated. Ladies and gentlemen, the position at the time of the committee meeting, not only of the interested, but of their parents, was a moment of shock. Whoever was not at that moment to listen to it is far from reality. These shocking positions, which described a situation which sometimes reaches the limits of family drama, cannot leave the government without initiative, cannot leave the House without measures. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] We are not legislating, ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of our ideologies or our ideas or our perceptions. We are legislating for Greek citizens and these are Greek citizens and they deserve our attention. That is why the Government took this initiative and brought about a legislative improvement and equipped this provision with the conditions of the age of seventeen and with another one: that especially for teenagers, not for children - because these ages have limited legal capacity in the Civil Code - and for these teenagers the agreement of a scientific council, which today has been clearly defined, is required, so that there is no gap at all. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this debate should be the case for all of us. In addressing the whole of the Greek society, I would like to say that there has been strong misinformation in the last few days from specific centres of the 'yellow press', which have been dissipating - in their knowledge - that they are lying - that the government and the Minister of Justice allow 15 years with a statement to change sex. They're disgusting liars, makers of false news, and I have nothing more to say about these misery, which they have been posted for days on online pages and in their printed press! It is unacceptable that this phenomenon should be systematically misinformed by the Greek society, believing that the Greek society does not understand, is in another sphere, and all it takes into account is what the "yellow press" tells it on a permanent basis, as if there is no channel of Parliament, there is no media that say exactly what the views of each of them are, there is nothing. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Ms. CHRISTOPOULOUou, takes over the President's seat.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I think that this bill closes a circle of government legislative initiatives. It was the coexistence pact that, with an increased parliamentary majority, was passed by the Greek Parliament. It was the law on equal treatment at work, with the same increased parliamentary majority, and today I hope that Members who are aware of the great task and the great obligation to respond to the needs of a modern world, we, a Parliament of his time, will respond to the call of the government and will vote in favour of the draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u351	The President of Parliament, Mr Nikolaos Voutsis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u352	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate really is interesting and is evolving in a way that is very sincere from all sides. Some things, however, are outside the tolerances and limits of parliamentary dialogue. For example, in the morning and without reacting, from what I saw, from the Chamber, the Parliamentary Representative of the Centro Union spoke of unwilling people, and I really wonder, after the statement by Mr Leventis, that he spoke first with the Patriarchate, after the Holy Synod, and then took the party's line to speak here, what is the attitude of Mr Saridis and other colleagues? Of course, we have heard a statement which may seem a little bit - let me express - politically 'xenodou' in relation to what we are discussing, by the President of the Golden Dawn - would definitely have the significance - which started to discuss the bill by saying that 'we are neither Nazis nor fascists'. It's part of this somewhere. In any case, we will study it. But let's go to some other issues that have been heard, because something has been heard about delinquency, about anti-national axes. These are things that do not offer either public dialogue or the country's progress and, of course, there has also been a koruna on jurisdiction. This is the easy one, the new rhetoric, so that some things are not dealt with in their essence. I want to be very clear. The rightfulness, even in the way that has been mentioned - if I am not mistaken, by Mr Vorides - does not take into account all the historical path of all the previous centuries, but now, that human rights have not been conquered by intellectual processes and by the upwards, which we say, from the structure, but have come as a result of pressure and have become legislation, supranational, national, state, etc., through the struggles of the communities concerned. All political history and history of recent years, as long as we can go back, it shows this thing. So there is a need for absolute respect for the struggles, often painful and bloody, which have been given by the small communities of our fellow citizens who have been at this dance of claiming this right of self-determination over the last few decades after post-Civilisation. We must not have short memory or selectivity or preconceived, but respect and honor the struggles of rights movements. Let me tell you that, apart from two very calm voices on the part of the Officerial Vice-President - I mean Mr Constantine Karamanlis the younger one, who spoke very clearly and made a contrast, so that there is no political speech from a lamb and also from Mrs Papakostas - on this very crucial issue, to which I would particularly like to refer, there were no distances from the political system to which there must be, so that in the Constitution and in the opinion of each of us the Orthodox Church and the other churches in our country, our people and also the political system to do its own work. In other words, there was no such temper, so that on the major issue of State and Church relations, which is an evolving issue, the political system could stand its own word and demand, together with respect for the views of the Church, respect for the city. There are many actions, individual points of view, collectively, from this side or from that side, which show no respect for the citizen's rights. This is known to all of us. When we debate it in private, we all recognise it. On the contrary, there is one - let me say - a struggling of influence and favor with the Church, which does not help our country in time to take the steps it needs. A number of points have been raised earlier by the Minister. I want to be very clear, because we have lived most of us in Transmigration and all these years. There's been a lot of noise. To remember what resistance there were on the issue of cremation and burial. There has been a Parliament decision since 2006 and after 2010 on this matter. We have 2017. It has now been possible, with the latest legislative acts, to approach the issue, so that mayors and individuals - let us hope - can move forward in the near future to incinerators in the country. Eleven years after a unanimous decision of the political system! Are we worried about this? Are you worried about that? Why should we have this delay? Do we have a grid - I mean a psychological grid - in our conversation with the respecters - I will say it a hundred times, if necessary - of views on the part of the Holy Synod? Do you want me to refer to the issue of adoring places? I mean the adoring places of other religions. If any of you had bothered - perhaps you had done it a year ago - to go to an exhibition at the Benaki Museum of an excellent artist, who would print out the adoring spaces in Athens, he would see hundreds of illegal, irregular adorable places of various religions, those here, of mourners, Buddhists and others. Why so many years before the vote on the mosque, once again through disputes, did our country not take these simple steps to harmonise with a reality for our country, which is also passing through? Why do we not just send out the millions of our fellow citizens. Remember the hostage fights that took place on children's citizenship and on the previous government and the present government? Does anyone say anything now? Is there any anomaly? Has the system, ideology suffered anything, because children born here by immigrants or refugees and taking Greek education, children who have not met a country take Greek citizenship? It's self-evident. Because I've heard before about fighting the Enlightenment against darkness. Okay, we used to call those in the '50s, '60s, '70s, '80s, the last century. Is it possible in 2017 to discuss them with the same intensity? The whole framework of the 1980s, which came back from the PASOK government at the time, was heard, but supported by all the progressive forces in the country, and regarding family law. Political marriage, adultery, political vow in relation to religious, later, the coexistence pact and the great battle of identities. Do you remember when and how we shared then? How many years have it been? Eighteen, if I'm not mistaken, or less, I don't remember. What's left of that case? Let everyone take off his identity, running around - and because of Schengen - throughout Europe. We're getting out of here. We're going outside. What prevented the uninterrupted functioning of religious beliefs in their flock and, on the other hand, the functioning of our secular state, the state, through successive changes to governments, through respect for the constitution and the Constitution? Where'd that eagle go? Where'd that split go? Where was he driving? Why am I saying this? We could say too many other things. Because it is not possible to constantly zero the clock and even in here. I'm saying it, because a conversation is wrong from the outset. It's a sin. It's bad and self-destructive for the political word of the political forces. The country cannot come out of the Memorandum of Understanding, etc. - typically in August 2018 - although there may be some surveillance and anything - and we have this agony, this stress to go to the new era, to celebrate all the two hundred years from Greek liberation, and this country that is going to come out to be a feared society, due to the eight years of crisis, because of what the world has suffered, locked in stereotypes, closed in metaphysical and stereotype beliefs. I repeat what I said this summer. There is such a volume against me of personal interventions etc. I would like to ask you, Mr President-in-Office, if you would like to speak on behalf of the Socialist Group, whether you would like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, or on So much volume has gathered throughout Greece. The same thing I have said now from a television show to say that Greece, after the memos, cannot be a Greece of Greek Christians. At least respect that view. Let us walk from here and beyond in this respect. It's not possible, I repeat, to zero the clock. It goes without saying that today's bill should be voted on. I believe that the Minister this morning and with a further clarification he has made on an article concerning the new 15 years with the Interdisciplinary Committee, etc. It has approached this issue with even greater precision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u353	Thank you, too. The President and President of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, Mr Alexis Tsipras, has the floor for 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u354	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the National Representation is being called today and tomorrow, these days, to do what is self-evident in relation to an important part of our fellow citizens, who have for decades remained voluntarily invisible from the state. We are called upon to ensure the right to self-determination for every citizen, for every person who lives in that country, and we are called upon to remove the absurdity of not accepting a person's choice to determine that gender identity, without insulting conditions and criteria and, above all, without the psychiatristisation of his decision. You'd think that's self-evident. Yes, it is self-evident, but not all of us, from those who at least - and I had the impression that it is a wide range in this Chamber - we want to define ourselves politically, whether as progressive or as liberals, apart from self-evidently it is also an act of political bravery, which will confirm or deny whether the elements appearing in another identity, in our own identity, political identity, correspond to reality. It is an act of bravery, because we have all become society of pressures exerted by various aspects and which seek to keep things as they have in the name of tradition, homeland, religion, family. However, no religion, no family perceptions, can demand that people be left on the sidelines or thrown into the institutional world. None at all. I want to remind everyone here, as we are called to approve, reject or even hide behind our fingers - why is this choice, from what I am learning, decided on by Mr Mitsotakis for New Democracy - the lyrics of Manoli Anagnostakis: 'Are you in favour or against? Can you answer me with a yes or a no? You have the problem thought about it.’ In fact, we have all considered this problem by stumbling or participating in the struggles of the group of our fellow citizens, which is concerned with this bill, but many times also with human tragedies, which have been rooted in the institutional unrest shown by the parties to this day. Ladies and gentlemen, in history one can easily see, if one wants to be objective, that the component of collective progress in societies is in constant confrontation on the one hand with a system of principles, ideas and practices and, on the other hand, with the constant need for people to emanate, equality and freedom. In this controversy, over time, the negatives of social collective progress have always resorted to defending a certain order of things with very simple excuses and arguments, 'because that's the way things are.' That's how someone or some people got things. There is a thread that unites the thinking and action of these people, who always meet them over time. It is their deep faith in the natural prefecture of social inequality, the one that the Chief of Officerial Antipopulation recently recalled, in a way that is absolutely creepy and upright at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition. Or as recently wrote another guru of the neoliberal wing of the New Democracy in the 1980s, "the lion is not equal to zebra", apparently placing itself, like all those who are brought by the corresponding ideology, lions and not zebras. Well, there is the big difference between the conservative and neoliberal party and the progressive party to us. So what do we do, dear friends? We're with the zebras and not the lions. We're with those who don't have a voice. We're with those who drown their voices. We are with the stigmatized, oppressed minorities, people who experience all sorts of inequality and isolation. These rights are intended to be defended. Because the collective progress of a society lies in the constant battle to remove the consequences of this appalling claim of natural inequality in all areas of social and political life. Besides, you know, what's normal to happen and what's not determined by each political and ideological connection. Once, for example, it was normal and legally regulated for workers to work 16 hours a day. It was normal and legally guaranteed that women would not be considered as equal to men or even worse to own them. At one time adultery was a criminal offence and slavery was considered the ultimate consequence of the right to property. Why? Because that's how things were. And the powerful have always "dreamed", as now, the inequality, the exploitation of people by people, the marginalization of large social groups in uniforms of metaphysical, patriotic or anything else you want. We could refer to dozens of examples of repulsive perceptions that modern societies with their action and their struggles have managed to overcome, although remnants will always be, recalling the need for constant vigilance towards regression. Today, however, in Greece of 2017, in a modern European state the debate on the expansion of individual freedoms and rights cannot be held on the ground of the distortions of conservatism, which it calls, beware, not only of non-respect for diversity, but also of voluntary punishment for the consequences of diversity. In other words, those who are calling us these days to withdraw this law are asking us not only to respect the self-determination of a person in terms of his sex, but to allow him to perpetuate, to continue consciously, because we know it, to marginalize, to bowling and to degrade the personality of our fellow citizens who are unprotected against social conservation and stereotypes. So today we are responding very clearly to them that the Greek Government has chosen another way. All other views are respected, but we have chosen another way, the way to defend and broaden individual freedoms and rights, as is the case with a modern European rule of law. As I would also say, the letter and the spirit of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the post-war convention on peaceful coexistence and well-being on which the modern societies have been structured, which reminds you that in the second article states that every man is entitled to invoke all rights and all freedoms without any discrimination, particularly as regards race, sex, language, religions, political or any other belief, ethnic origin, property, birth or any other situation. So that's what this is about. Legal safeguarding of the legal identity of gender is another small but important step in the gradual lifting of discrimination that poisons and, ultimately, divide our society. Ladies and gentlemen, the question to the government is being answered today by boldness and straightforwardness and without anyone saying, as we would all have expected, cost. Because all decisions have a political cost. The question of opposition, ladies and gentlemen, who will answer it? Because it's a question, you know, ruthless and no escaping. Will you support this political and legal section, which is founded on the founding and legal texts of the modern world, and I would also say in Article 2 of the Constitution, on the protection of human value and on the principles of equality and the free development of personality? Are you going to support it or not? Or will you turn by the amendment and the tabling of other laws? And if you finally turn, under the weight of political costs or the much stronger, apparently, your extreme right wings, will you explain where, in the end, you are depleting the liberal character of your ideology? Because - you know - liberalism, like any respected ideological approach, cannot be a kart. You can't be a free card. You cannot be liberal when the debate comes on labour market issues, but when you have to clash with established perceptions but also with horrific conservative reflexes to retreat. After all, if I remember correctly, it was your Chief, Mr Mitsotakis, on July 12, who met representatives of the LGBTK community and committed to them - so they said the press releases issued by your party - that he would support and vote at the outset the government's legislative initiative. What suddenly happened and Mr Mitsotakis changed his mind? Didn't Mr. Georgiadis and you, Mr. Voridis, leave him in the Chamber? And, to get gold after the pill, this morning he rushed to get the portfolio of the Defence Sector from Mr. Georgiadis? He doesn't need the Vice-President's defense portfolio, why does he have the most critical portfolio, the definition of the line of communication policy, your strategy and your physiognomy? He's earned this portfolio. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Because, you know, in your effort, which is obvious, to maintain coherence, you are constantly making concessions, not to the Vice-President, because that would be the least evil. The worst is that you make concessions to the populist agenda of the extreme right and the extreme right and you have turned your line, the New Democracy, into a hybrid of neoliberal fanaticism in the economy and extreme right-wing populism into issues relating to the rule of law and the protection of individual rights and freedoms. On the other hand, I must admit that I am sincerely pleased that your usual allies are not following you from the centre and the centre-left area this time. Because at some point we must all say 'yes' or 'no' to some measures, which are their character and importance for human beings, and not to some numbers, I think goes beyond party limits and disciplines. At some point representatives, particularly PASOK, not the River, should admit that this government has acted on a series of important and very difficult progressive areas, which you who have ruled the place yourself for almost twenty-four years, despite the indisputably progressive nature of your governments, have not dared them. You have not dared, you have not made progress in these major areas of rights. But it is this government that dares them, this government that has acted on the coexistence pact of homosexual couples. It is this government that has legislated for the acquisition of citizenship of children of a second generation of migrants born in Greece. It is this government today that has the courage and courage to move to large areas, to collide with established perceptions and with the power of inertia of the institutions, to a very important legislative initiative concerning self-determination. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that this legislative initiative is not based on tolerance to diversity. Because for us it is not a matter of tolerance, but it is freedom. Cad said that "law is the full set of conditions under which the free choice of each other can coexist with each other's free choice, according to a universal law of freedom". It is precisely for this reason that today's legislation is an obligation for us. That's what matters. Because the state should not legislate on the basis of tolerance. Legislation on the basis of the principle of equality and freedom. Where there is no equality between everyone against the law, then gray zones are produced within society, allowing for marginalisation and exclusion of some who their own country chooses to classify them as second-class citizens. Remember one more thing. Rights have no meaning in general, in order to invoke those of us that do not concern us. The rights make sense to those who need them, to those who are at constant risk of exclusion, to the weak and to the minority. That is why we are moving forward in an institutional reform which modernises and reassures, if you like, the institutional framework in our country. The country is moving steadily and making progress in all areas, from economy to labour rights, protection and expansion of individual freedoms and social rights. We are doing progressive reforms that, in our view, constitute the implementation of self-evident commitments to parts of the population that have faced unfair and irrational discrimination against them. So tomorrow, when the vote is taken, I hope with the broadest possible consensus that the Greek Parliament will restore a distortion of decades against an important part of our society. It is true that those in this Chamber who have been sceptical about the country's European course and who have participated in demonstrations about staying in Europe should take into account the fact that nineteen countries of the European Union have already done what we are discussing here today, with some tension than I understand it, and not as self-evident. It's nineteen countries. We are doing today an act of brave progressive areas, because, if you like, for us 'inhabited Europe' does not mean 'we wait in the memorials'. You cannot be with Europe about austerity and with anachronism, darkness, rights. Then choose the worst in both versions. For us, then, to'remain Europe' means, first of all, fighting in the country to overcome the distortions, humiliations, injustices and get out not only of the memoranda - that we are going out and going out in a few months - but also to be able to remove the causes that have led us to them. And 'we live in Europe' means, at the same time, and that we are reforming the country, modernising the country and expanding the rights of all citizens. I am well aware, ladies and gentlemen, that the steps to be taken in the field of rights are still a great deal. Today, however, I believe that, as much as this is the most important, people who have experienced the consequences of anachronistic absurdity - and some of them are watching us or who are in this Chamber - can feel joy and hope and justice, which for some, such as the representatives of the LGBTQ community, comes after difficult struggles of many decades. Because, you know, no progressive incision is easy, but it comes at some point after races and claims the crew of time to mature. At some point the time of justice is coming. And one such hour is today! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u355	Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy, Mr. Nikos Dendias, will speak and then the MP of the Golden Dawn Mr. Hadjisavvas will speak. Here, Mr. Dendia, you have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u356	Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister of the country has come here today and made a speech of calm tone, following what he has often done lately. It serves what I call verbal mission. It creates doubles: good - bad, privileged - non-preferential. He holds for SYRIZA and himself the role of the good prince next to the weak. He spoke to us earlier about lions and zebras, about perpetrators and victims. Apparently he chose to tell us that his government is next to the victims. This general mission, ladies and gentlemen, would have been interesting if it were to respond to this government's performance in this area, to the protection of those whose own verbally from the most competent lips, the Prime Minister's lips, chose to express and support. We see, however, - and I think we all agree here - that in practice, in everyday life where everything is finally measured, measured and valued, things are completely different. I believe the government is in favour of the environment. And in the same year, it succeeds in an accident, which could be faced with an adequate unit of the Port House, contaminated by the entire Saronics and have consequences for ten years from now and not for a single minister to resign, not to give up a single responsibility, not to have a single official dismissal. The government is tearing out tears here in favour of the pensioners, the weak, and three hundred thousand pensioners are waiting in vain for their retirement, because this government does not have the elementary technocratic capacity to give them what is rightfully the trouble of a whole lifetime. I have no difficulties, ladies and gentlemen, in defending the Corps party tonight, New Democracy. Clearly, of course, we are a liberal party and as a liberal party we have absolute respect for every citizen's right to self-determination and not to heterose. We have no objections to that. And we had no historical objections to that. The Minister of Justice and many other speakers were right, and Mr Kostas Karamanlis previously referred to Law 344/1976. ‘Around a change in urban situation’ was the title of this law. It was the then New Democracy's attempt more than forty years ago to resolve a problem that was extremely important, which I doubt the rest of Europe knew how to deal with. Unfortunately, however, the government's attempt to exercise its legislative initiative is completely inconsistent with the seriousness with which the Prime Minister spoke about this initiative. We would expect after the Prime Minister himself here to talk to us about the importance of this piece of legislation to be a piece of legislation prepared and, in his last detail, to deal with all cases sufficiently, to be a holistic response to the problems of people, minorities and to give convincing explanations of the answers he gives to sensitive issues. Instead, ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry to say that we are again, unfortunately, again - and I say 'happily' because I tell you again, and I will not get tired of telling you that, that we want to have regulation in this area - against a manifestation of governmental affinity, as is almost the entire legislative work of this government. The ruler of law of the future will be appalled, ladies and gentlemen, when he runs through the legal texts that you have voted on and the judge will be freaked out when he has to apply them. Such a text is also the law. I am thinking in particular of Article 3, because this is the largest part of this legislation and what we are talking about. Ladies and gentlemen, we in the New Democracy have told you what our view is and, in order not to think that we are plundering or mocking ears or, if you wish, we are ringing bells - because this has been said - we have tabled a specific proposal. You could just take our own proposal, bring it here, instead of yours, vote for it, and indeed have taken a big step forward. But I am taking you to Article 3 on which I will have to speak politically. If you first have goodness, tell me about the opinion of the Paedophiliac Society, which says that under the age of seventeen there is no educated personality and, consequently, any regulation under that age is not appropriate, because it entangles a person in terms of a right that is an absolute person's right to self-determination, and gives it to parents and others, what is the convincing answer that gives to this fundamental question? How does one stand up to it? Of course, the Minister was moved by the drama of people in the committee. I guess all of us were there. The question, however, is the human excitement I respect, or the correct and solid solution to the problem? Where are we to respond, ladies and gentlemen? But I'll go down. You're giving the judge's authority to make the decision. Mr Lappas, Member of the Commission. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, Mr Lappas, for his excellent report. He said: Who told you that the judge isn't making a judicial decision, but that he's just a processor here? So the judge makes a court ruling. Of course, ladies and gentlemen. Please, however, explain to me why you, just above, exclude him the means which he, for his own conscience, could ask for and say that no prior medical examination is required? Why exclude the Greek judge from the right to cover his own concept of law according to which he must express his opinion after and, if he so wishes, seek medical examination? What's his right to rule it out? Where's this device standing? What point of our just culture can it stand?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u357	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u358	Ladies and gentlemen, I think that everyone's laws may not be the same, but at least the possibilities of reading all of us are sufficient. So it is enough for anyone who constantly disagrees with the article I am referring to. I'm coming over. We were invited by the Prime Minister to follow the European current. First of all, ladies and gentlemen, I would remind you that you have taken your distance from the European current. I think I am well in my memory and most of us here have not forgotten what you were saying against Europe for a long time. The tradition of you, Leonidas Kyrkos and the Inner Kyrgyz Kyrgyzstan, who joined us in the 1980s, to enter the European Union at that time. We must now go to Europe. Do you want to forget about what you were saying and did for two years? How many countries follow this example? I don't have to tell you much. There is a report from the Scientific Office of the Parliament. It's five countries. So, what do you have to say about the rest of us? Are you seriously telling us that this is the European example? Do you want me to tell you others that show how inadequate your regulation is? Tell me something, if you're kind. You were told earlier by another colleague. How do you place yourself in the possibility of a marriage between persons of this same biological sex, of which one has made a correction? What's your location on it? Legal or illegal? Where does it say it here? In the right of adoption in the previous example, how do you place yourself? Legal or illegal? Where does it say it here? On military issues combined with gender change, how do you place yourself? Legal or illegal? What are we doing? Where does it say it here? On sports games, how do you put it? Where does it say it here? In compliance with private operators in changing the person identification data, how do you place it? Where does it say it here? I can give you a list of twenty points, but unfortunately I only have one and a half more minutes. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no need for much effort. Look at the law. It's a piece of legislation, like handsomely the most you do. I have watched the Minister of Justice cry almost for the New Democracy, because we have changed, because we do not follow - says the Minister - the bright example of Constantine Karamanlis. Seriously, ladies and gentlemen? You came to tell us how to follow Constantine Karamanlis' political heritage? In the forty years that you say they destroyed Greece Constantine Karamanlis, do you have him inside or outside? And if you in these years add those of Andreas Papandreou, for which the Prime Minister writes bithymbian articles, forty how are added or what are they removed? Do you have flags, a chance for what you need? "We have these principles and if you don't like them, do we have other principles?" What's this? Where do you think you're talking? To natives? Will you tell us how to protect the political heritage of our founder? We don't come to our senses, I say, tonight? Now let's go and beyond that, ladies and gentlemen. There is here - so that we do not forget it - and a matter declared, a political issue beyond and outside the government. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make it clear to you and it has been said by our Chief of State, Mr Mitsotakis, that it has been said by all our members, it is my pleasure to say this to you: finally parliamentary smuggling, finally parliamentary smuggling. Do you have a majority to rule or do you have or do you have to do every time on the flank to succeed in confusing some elementary group of votes to stand over a hundred and fifty? Because your need leads you to tragic choices, such as the one we have been following for a few days, in which you have all come to tell us that the possibility of a minister to speak with a barbecue prisoner is something within the context of logic and that this is a rule of law. So are you coming now, please, tell us what you're going to do to vote on Article 3? For we, if the Greek Party of Independents does not vote for it, tell you directly that there will be no government in the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u359	Mr. Dendia, we're scared now, but anyway. Mr. Hadjisavvas from Golden Dawn has the floor. Seven minutes keeps the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u360	In fact, Mr Lappa's attempt to tell us that when the Roma were persecuted, no one spoke, when the homosexuals were persecuted, no one spoke and when we were persecuted, no one would speak if that was what you meant. So, as if you'd tell me that if the police break the doors and enter the Golden Dawn homes...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u361	I am addressing another side of Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u362	I am speaking to you about our own, because you have addressed this House more generally.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u363	Please, no dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u364	We are not moved by this, namely that the police can enter our homes and take us or arrest Golden Dawn MPs, without any immunity being lifted, because no one has spoken. So I'm returning this back if he was addressing us. So the House is still talking about human rights in a society where there are no rights left. Are there any privileged and working rights in the Memorandum of Greece? Are there any rights to those who put padlocks in their shops? Are there any rights to those who take their businesses and leave Bulgaria to be saved? Are there any rights in young people and young people leaving abroad to work either as scientists or as workers? Do the Greeks have rights to education or health? Do pensioners have rights waiting three and four years to get a pension and they don't get a salary? Do producers, farmers, who have remained without production permits this year, have rights, because they have not been able to renew the old nor to issue new ones, with the gap between the abolition of the former regime and the new one? Of course, it is not enough for you to pass this bill today. Go further and talk about marriage and childbirth. You are hitting the vital cells of our society, the Greek nation. Once again, on the pretext of human rights, you bring an anti-national bill, with decisions - supposedly - that you will abolish the bowling, as was the case before with the children who took citizenship, who while things were different, by taking these citizenship, could stop the bowling. So, did the bowling stop? Is there no bulging anymore in society? What if a decision comes out that says someone who feels like a woman, while a man, makes a decision that says she's a woman? He'll turn and share photos and anyone who's bowling for him will say to him: "Get a look. I have a decision”? You also said that they would not go unrelated to making use of this law of favourable treatment and favourable status, because they are only 0.01% of the population in other countries that has been implemented. At a time when, in public, they become ‘white’ marriages and are having virtual divorces so that they can have a favourable status in transfers, do you think they will not think of doing so? And if it doesn't happen, and you think it'll happen right, predict it. SYRIZA generally says it follows orders from the European Union. But is that all? So, does the coup d'état get into these troubles with trembling, just to follow the European Union's orders? I believe it is a transaction with all the former SYRIZA Memorandum MPs, who, with the exchange of some piece of legislation, each - another for citizenship - another for the mosque, another for the cohabitation pact, another for the other now - accepted the SYRIZA butt that by an antimonetary party became a Memorandum and now they take this in return. Of course, you did not hide it that you were ethnicly neutralized in the previous elections. You've just put forward that you'll tear the memorandum and that you'll refill the payroll pocket, the retired and the businessman, and the world has believed you. Poor thing! But now you've lost them, because you didn't break the memorial nor do you save the houses. You who were taking pictures in front of the tolls and saying, "I don't pay", now go out in front of the inauguration tolls. Ex-passians and neo-democrats who go to any party that has a government perspective are now your voters. The only idealists in SYRIZA are his MPs. There's no one left. You have now been in a controversy, stalinistic with those of the October Revolution, as if the October Revolution did not order crimes or there were no homosexuals, anyway, tendencies. I'm over it. I get over Engels who wrote Marx about the dangerous organization of homosexuals in the state. I'm beyond Castro who said it was a result of capitalism. I get over Marx saying homosexuality is a stupid obsession and a single-game relationship between a man and a woman is right. So we are going through a question: What ideological texts of the October Revolution are anticipated and justified in voting for memoranda and condemning the popular strata? You also blame the Golden Dawn for intolerance and hate rhetoric, for fascism and see your own democratic perception. Mrs Giannakakis this morning told REAL FM that when she hears someone opposing and talking about gender change and not correcting, she comes to pull around. I think you said this for a joke or to describe what you feel right now. Imagine a Golden Dawn MP saying that "when someone disagrees with me, I'm coming to take out a gun," say. I don't see you laughing. Not funny. The ANELs now with some so-called patriotic reactions give an alibi to SYRIZA's ethnicist policy. This isn't the first time. They have forgotten the red lines in both citizenship and mosques and the Turkish Union will forget them. Whenever the coup d'etat went down, they supported. Do you deny, of course, that there was a transaction to cover Kammenos for the Yannousaki talks and all of this and that the scheduled three-month journey that took place for this Monday and Tuesday could not be predicted by you and postponed the bill once, postponed it second last week and came right on Monday and Tuesday that Kammens is missing? That's a very convenient coincidence. Partners, then, and ANLLs on the levelling-up of human rights rather than on their preservation. PASOK now took a break from the epic battle for chiefs. They have not yet established which party will impose its policy, which is its ideology. They're waiting for him to be chief first - that's what they care about - and then he'll incorporate everyone else. And he came here to tell us that citizenship, mosques and non-registration of religion in identities are their own achievement. Of course it's their own achievement. The people don't forget that. That is why only leaders and executives are left in PASOK and there are no voters. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The same mistake, of course, is made by the New Democracy, which says there is a problem with the declared one. There was a problem with the declared bills, including citizenship and mosques, which you supported. And you come here today and say that: yes, not only did we support them, some of them were our own thoughts. The legalisation of the JRC was also a great achievement. Completely dismantled from the patriotic base and the New Democracy. It calls for some changes, some arrangements: 15 years of age to go to eighteen, medical advice and everything is fine. If these are done, from 15 to eighteen, it will be a good thing to change sex, with some rules on measures and standards. It says that it is not ideological and political what we are discussing here today, it is social. And yet what is being discussed here today is deeply ideological. It is a matter that raises a question: do we want Greece? And if we want Greece, what kind of Greece do we want? Do we want a nation independent, economically and militaryly powerful? Do we want Orthodoxy or do we want to serve pandemic? Do we want to serve the new order of things? If, therefore, we want free Greece, if the people want free Greece and strong, orthodox, apart from memorials, they do not bend on and accept everything, then the people want clearly Golden Dawn. In conclusion, we talked about the right of self-determination and Mr Voutsi came to tell us that this could be different and different. Are we not entitled to define ourselves as Greek patriotic nationalists? Does he need a medical opinion? And from what age, then can you define yourself as a nationalist? You catch us labels that have been created over the last decade - left, right - why can you manage? Are we racist, are we fascists? No, we're Greek nationalist patriots. We come from a long story of thousands of years back and we will go thousands of years ahead. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u365	Madam President, may I have the floor? I want to testify.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u366	Yes, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u367	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to table a piece of legislation in the two amendments that we have tabled. One relates to some changes in the Banking Code and the other to the system of awarding administrative justice, on the competent court for examining the administrative actions of public procurement. We have adapted some data to the proposals of the competent authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u368	I would ask that they be distributed. Mr. Michelis has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u369	Thank you, Madam President. Anyone who carefully followed the parties' rapporteurs and speeches can easily conclude that, apart from Golden Dawn, all the other political spectrum agrees what the problem is and what the solution is. So why is this confrontation, and above all why this pre-emptive tension through the mass media, literature and electronics? I am convinced, ladies and gentlemen, that the confrontation here of the parties that are in agreement is mainly for the electoral base of everyone and because of the influence of other factors outside Parliament. The problem, however, which arises mainly for confrontation, in my view, is a problem of conflict between progressive and conservative thinking in the country. And it can be historically proven, as it has been recorded, who were in writing on one hand and who on the other. It is right, in my view, that two Vice-Presidents raised issues of progressive movement, mainly from post-policy and then how their party stood on them. However, I will also make a few negative points of such decisions. I should like to point out that the perception of the woman, of the girl in education, who were old and who supported her? Let me remind you. Girls are not about middle-education, they were suffocated by a household school, and when they were institutionalized to go to mid-education, they became separate high school nipples and were required to have uniform uniform uniforms, and when later during the Meducation they were institutionalized as being able to go to mixed schools, with great difficulty we left the uniformity of the uniform, the vulture for the boys and the apron for the girls. What political forces supported these conservative attitudes and what were they fought against and what perception was one and the other viewpoint of the Greek people? My second reference to such a perception. Does anyone remember the concept of a conservative world for left-handed people? It's a percentage of 10% of the population. Until 1980 in kindergartens, infants forced them to write and eat with their right hand, God's hand, so they were told. What were those opinions? Who supported them? Were they born by themselves? To end up in the 1980s, those who taught biology in schools and for the first time in the books mentioned the theory of Darwin, from theological circles, we had omissions to avoid it, because it is nothing useful for our society. Of course, no one dares to say that today. I have to say this about the story that in the United States, reference to Darwin's theory is forbidden and this has been replaced by the theory of the so-called 'intelligent development', which simply says that the world was created ten thousand years ago. They ignore that ten thousand years ago there was human civilization. Of course, I must note that Mr Mitsotakis' view is that social inequalities are rather innate, so it is vain for those who fight either to eliminate them or to eliminate them is simply what is called'social Darvinism'. I'm holding on to this. So what we are talking about today is how we deal with this conservative thinking, which has largely, beyond the extreme right and a large part of the New Democracy, the answer, in my view, is: with the prevalence of scientific thought and rationality. So questions of equal social rights for all the social groups must be the objective of all of us. There's no excuse and no evasion. I will say a few words about the very good argument of the family question from conservative circles if this bill is passed. I support the view that the family can be supported by concrete measures and practices in terms of the organised state. I'm reporting a few. As a question, can the family be supported when one husband works in Macedonia and the other is appointed to Crete? So as a suggestion: Try the couple to work in the same place. Can it be family-based when in weak social groups we don't support children, students at school? And that is what happens, with the school meals that some so dominated, with the free transportation of students, who little or no one is mentioned here - and it was not in SYRIZA, and before that, with the reinforcement of teaching and many other issues, benefits for the first child. I have come to the conclusion that a democratic indicator of a society's sensitivity is the attitude of this society towards socially weak minorities. That is why we need to pass this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u370	Thank you, too, for the accuracy of time. F Vice-President of Parliament and Member of the Communist Party of Greece Mr George Lambroulis now speaks.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u371	Thank you, Madam President. Reference can be made to the bill, in its explanatory memorandum in particular, to the introduction of a simple procedure in order to correct the registered gender of transgenders. But no doubt, the bill has multiple and deeper targets and plans and comes to intervene in the consciousness of the people, in the direction of cultivating standards, perceptions, shaping criteria and attitudes of life, through dealing with complex and sensitive social issues. For the Communist Party, it is understandable that there should be procedures through which a person can change the gender in his legal documents. And this need is about the cases of people who are experiencing a strong conflict between the characteristics of their sex and the gender in which they feel they belong. A conflict that may be due not only to reasoning factors, but also to social or other reasons. And of course it does not concern anyone who may see a way of dealing with other deadlocks, choosing to walk on a road that is very likely to lead to even bigger deadlocks and contradictions. Thus, the right of a person to resolve the incompatibility between the officially registered sex and the gender in which he feels he needs to be based on objective, scientific criteria and the establishment of a scientifically documented opinion, but also a measure of social support and protection, not only does he limit the individual right, but makes it possible to exercise it effectively. So resolving incompatibility requires much more than changing the word that determines the gender of the person in identity, passport, degree, dismissal, etc. It presupposes psychosocial support. It requires a conscious choice based on knowledge of the factors dictating it and its consequences. It needs support for the social agenda, care not to leave the individual vulnerable to marginalisation and exclusion. And on these issues they have raised reservations, objections and scientific bodies with increased weight. Is it, then, for medicalization or for stigmatisation and isolation? Since there are no conditions to do with medical intervention. But what's the bill doing? It's moving in the opposite direction. It rejects the minimum social conditions and opposes them at the level of will and the right of self-determination. So where does it end? To base an individual right to gender determination solely on the subjective view of the individual for the gender to which he belongs. What does it achieve that way? The individual experience, the subjective experience to be disinfected at the expense of social experience as a source of knowledge. And where does this disinfection lead? In denying the very objective reality, since the exclusive criterion is only the experience of each individual. So the gross distortion of objective reality opens the way, even to deform this concept of right. But really a series of biological data - not just gender - are they not linked to the recognition of rights, that is, to access to them? So the age - which I imagine we all accept as an objective given that is not subject to any self-determination - is linked, for example, to the right to retirement. With age, but also gender - another example - a number of preventive tests are not linked? And much more, according to our perception and position, based on human biological data, individual and social rights need to be produced. So, for example, we are defending the need for measures to protect women in the workplace, but conquests and rights that have been abolished today. However, with the refusal of gender as objective as well as its view as being subject to the will and self-determination of each individual, we are still further away from the need to produce, secure and recognise rights based on sex. Or, to refer to an issue in the current situation, which has also been discussed in the Committee on Social Affairs, but which also concerns society in general, and which has opened up discussions and I refer to increased cases of measles. Can one defend a parent's choice as a right not to inoculate his child? Because if the criterion is the will of the individual, the knowledge available to the family, the experience, the opinions and the perception of parents, then we must accept, not just that the vaccination of a child must be the only ones to choose parents, but that reality must be treated as a right. However, if we set the criterion on the basis of scientific knowledge and the collective experience of society about the benefits of vaccinations, then the right acquires another content. It is defined as the right of all children to be vaccinated for free, under the responsibility of the state, with vaccines that are proven safe and effective, but also as the right of parents to be informed responsible for their vaccination, necessity and benefits. So what we say as a Communist Party, in order to exercise individual rights in a substantial and not formal way, is that a number of socially defined factors are required as a prerequisite. In other words, individual choice, to be the result of mature thought and essential, needs to be based on the knowledge of a number of factors and consequences from the choice made by the individual. And knowledge can be transferred through the individual's scientific or social support, not just the subjective experience. And that applies to all matters. The draft law does not even approximate the minimum social conditions to legally base the right of transgender people. On the contrary, it denies them in the name of individual rights. Target? To detract individual rights from social rights from economic and social and political conditions. Because no individual rights are guaranteed outside collective, social rights. Moreover, the development and development of the individual's personality, normal psychosomatic and social development are not done outside society, nor can it depend on parental care, but need social welfare. And these aspects could be dealt with insofar as there were, for example, psychologists, social workers at the health centre, in the school unit, with the corresponding training of teachers. Thus, there would be timely and objectively existing problems of incompatibility between the registered gender and the way the individual experiences his gender before mental and other social problems arise. But what do the government and the other parties that support the bill say? They propose the well-known urban perception and policy that proclaims individual responsibility, individual capacity, individual choice as a maximum human right. What are they trying to achieve? The universal and non-negotiable nature of the social right in the name of the individual must be lost, especially at a time when collective social rights are being "frozen" at work, in creative life, in education, in health and so on, and in other cases where civil power and its mechanisms have a special interest in creating obstacles to the realization of the need for class struggle for modern social rights, universally for all. They are trying, in other words, to block the only way that can lead to a change in social reality, i.e. to overthrow the exploitive relationships between production and perceptions, but also the practices based on them. Therefore, it is not a question of demanding that social rights be satisfied on the basis of individual choice, because social rights are not satisfied either with great words of equality or with the alleged freedom of individual choice. They are convicted and conquered by participating in social class struggles against those who are "slaying" their rights or being able to satisfy them. Participation in collective social action is an element in the development of the personality of each and every one, the cultivation of skills and calls. On the other hand, when they dominate consciousness and action, especially of the new generation, individualism, distorting individual identity concepts are found each and every individual isolated from the system that gives rise to social inequality and discrimination, while at the same time turning the field for the creation of reactionary reflexes and conservativeism, leading to the expansion of both racism and intolerance. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u372	Thank you. I will now give the floor to a parliamentary representative, Mr Cavadela, from the Centro Association for twelve minutes, so that all the other parliamentary representatives want to rotate by two or three Members.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u373	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, after we have solved all the problems of the country, we have also reached the burning issue, to resolve issues that belong to Greek society, but the manoeuvres with which we are called upon to deal with these people with this bill cannot be said to be sufficient and effective. Because the existing legislation adequately covers the matter. At the present time, when the need for identity and cohesion is a need for national and intellectual survival, the legal safeguarding of the liquidity of personal identity is the worst that can be implemented. This bill we consider that apart from being morally unacceptable, because it is implemented on the basis of subjectivity, it is also unconstitutional. In particular, it is contrary to Article 21 of the Constitution, which protects marriage and family, as the foundation of the maintenance and promotion of the nation. So this bill runs counter to the customs and common sense of our people. Through this, we can claim that the institution of the family is being 'drinkled'. The foundations of society, such as family, children, marriage in the traditional sense, are deeply affected. \ We take into account the rights of a portion of the Greek people, who are in fact in trouble, but we do not take into account the Greek society. Because there was not enough information. There was no dialogue with the Church. The world is unprepared. I come out and others get drunk, others shake hands with a negative mood to discuss something like that. With the new bill, as we mentioned, the institution of the family is being "dropped" and this is in contrast with the good habits and common sense. The gender in humans serves the basis of psychosomatic complementarity. In this sense, we claim that it is not eligible. After all, by studying the case law of our country's courts, we see that where there is a need to solve existing problems, this is adequately covered. So this bill gives rise to a sense of society and irreparably exposes the human face of these people who will make use of this law. Without the social dialogue, as I said, without preparation, such changes are violent and disapproved by the largest portion of the Greek people. We cannot ignore the moral values that inspire our people from the establishment of the Greek state. In the light and our negative attitude to this aboriginal, in our view, a bill, which we consider to be practically inapplicable, opens the way for possible offences if the possibility of this bill is used for other purposes. So we can only burn this bill down. It came to the committee and there it was amended in the hands, including 15-year-olds in the category of persons who may request a gender correction under certain conditions. We wonder whether a minor, a 15-year-old child, whose character is miserable and certainly does not have the maturity to make final decisions that will have a dramatic effect on his life in future, has the maturity to decide repressed and ask for such a significant change in his sexual identity. We refer to the positions of the Greek Pedophobic Society, which maintains reservations about this bill and goes on to say: "We think it is our duty to express our opposition to the extension of gender-change opportunities to people aged 15 years, who are characterized by the liquidity of the gender-shaped identity, as well as our concerns that the involvement of these young people in the process will only improve their mental situation". This bill, instead of reducing the confusion and possible mental disorders of a person, since a psychiatrist is not necessary, is a self-destructive weapon. What happens at school if a 15-year-old kid goes next year with the name of the opposite sex? There, won't there be a bowling? How are we supposed to protect this person from the bowling? With a simple indication of the identity of the other name? Let's also take the case that someone has children and is making a gender change. How can anyone there guarantee the rights and obligations of the parental care of that person, the good mental health of the child, who will suddenly see one of their parents making a sex correction? How is a child’s mental world affected by such a cosmogenic change? Perhaps it should be anticipated that children should be excluded from the possibility of correcting their gender. What about children's rights, as you are interested in human rights, which will suddenly suppress the security patterns and stability of the roles with which they have grown and revived? We propose that the gender change bill be withdrawn. The case-law of our country's courts covers, where necessary, existing problems, given that the gender is neither freely chosen nor changed at will, but based on the anatomic, physiological and biological characteristics, which define the identity of man and are established through only medical advice to the court. The law cannot simply be confined to the scientific undeclared statement by a citizen, which may be changed later. The opposition is in favour of the rights of vulnerable groups. And to see those who support - and support - for example, Mr Kamine, who is fine-cutting cancer patients. Removes signs and refuses to cancel the fine - returns the signs. Did he take care of the susceptible? Did you guys make sure that you supported him for the vulnerable people too, that they have a parking space beyond the ramps? In any case, the ultimate aim of us is to allow marriage between two sexes and later adoption, which is undercover, but that is the purpose of this bill. Given the particular sensitivity shown by our party in defending children's rights, a highly vulnerable group, we appreciate the establishment of the National Mechanism for the Training, Monitoring and Evaluation of Child Rights Action Plans and believe that existing legislation covers the issue adequately. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u374	The next speaker is Mr Vlachos, Member of the New Democracy. Mr. Vlao, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u375	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have been discussing a very serious issue in this House over the last few days, both in committee and in this House today. And it is serious not because it is a problem of a large majority or, if you like, many, but because the whole issue has very sensitive aspects and no one has to be very careful about how it is approached. The New Democracy over a period of time, with social sensitivity, has taken an initiative since the 1970s, in other words, at an unsuspecting time, which was no one's request, to make its own contribution, which I would say for the time being was a very great innovation. So the New Democracy, and then and today, supports human personality over time, respects human rights. The government has brought today, I would say with great urgency, the whole thing. He opened it and no one was convinced of the good intentions. More than that, I would say that we have been convinced of the service of micro-participatory purposes, since in our view it gives us a solution which is not a solution. Because, ladies and gentlemen, it cannot be a solution to the request for a gender transition that, as we call it, is a change, it is something different. They heard in this Chamber that the New Democracy had extreme right-wing rhetoric, and heard about humanity, compassion, self-evidentness. Here we have to agree whether there is a problem, what is the problem and how it should be solved. We are the ones who have said from the start that we need to take a step forward. Yes, we need to modernise legislation, we need to change. There is the problem in a small portion of our citizens and we must now give a solution. But the solution cannot be given to the request for selection. We need this void, this problem created by nature itself, someone else interfering to correct it. And in this case, there must be no one else from science, from complex medical science, which must be called upon to find out the problem and, of course, the whole matter of reaching justice, which is based on the evidence provided by medical science, will take the decision. Unless we want a piece of legislation that justice will simply deal with, that is to say, just make a registration in the gender transition of anyone who makes his application. It was heard about the New Democracy's proposal that we were late, why didn't we say so long? But, ladies and gentlemen, think that the government has long been making an innovative proposal which no one could definitively judge before seeing it. When we saw that with this proposal we could obviously not be given a solution, as soon as we could, and we tabled an integrated proposal, which actually gives a solution. We cannot, therefore, insist on the government's ideas. We cannot monitor the government's extremes in seeking its left-hand identity through such legislation that saves and well has to call them right, right-wing or I don't know how else, while these problems alone are of no characterisation. The problem is a problem and it requires a solution. Anyone else trying to approach through an ideological perspective is wrong. As it is wrong - because I have heard earlier - and any fellow Member wants to simulate the problem, the issue we are discussing, the abolition of the clay or the abolition of the aprons in schools or the haircut. For Christ's sake! The more you put forward such arguments, the less you are convincing about the correctness of our evenings and the fact that the whole thing has not studied it, that you have brought it very roughly. You bring the possibility of gender change and if you regret it returning to the previous sex. We have so far known virtual divorces in the service of purposes. Are you going to join the gender change in the service of some of the purposes? It is known that many public persons who wanted to express themselves and the public were on crazy paper to avoid the army. So, this very top issue, which is about nature itself, we're going to put it into our everyday life in that logic? That's what we call no. And as long as you insist on this approach, we will say no. We will insist on our proposal, because we believe that it is indeed documented, that it shields the decision of justice, that it is based on medical and scientific criteria and that it gives our fellow citizen a real solution. Because we have to agree here, too, on a last point, ladies and gentlemen, that we are addressing our fellow citizens those who, in fact, have a real problem identifying their genders which nature has deprived them of. And that cannot be covered by the statement, it cannot be said that everyone can hide, as I have said before, the purpose of giving an answer to this question, to the problem that nature itself has identified. That is why we say 'no' to the government's legislation, because for us it is not a solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u376	Thank you. Mr Panagiotis Iliopoulos, Member of the Golden Dawn, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u377	Thank you, Madam President. To avoid forgetting it and not answering the New Democracy, because the New Democracy said it is a problem of nature that some people do not feel exactly the way nature did them, so to answer the New Democracy and say that nature gives two specific sexes: male and female. Nature is not wrong, and you cannot with any bill to correct nature. Every time, then, SYRIZA brings a bill in the last three years that you have been ruling, we are really shaking in what we will see, what unwilling, what unorthodox, what immoral, in the end, SYRIZA will bring us to vote in the Greek Parliament. You guys, of course, changed your policy for years that you've been defending, would you be stuck in a gender change at fifteen? These are fine letters for you. So the bills that you bring serve only two objectives: first, they cover the ideas of the hard core of SYRIZA, 3% -4% that had been set out before it was extended to 36% and they understand - as I say - power, of course, with lies. And secondly, they disorientate public opinion from the real problems posed by SYRIZA - ANEL itself. They are faithful, of course, to all these legislations on the agenda of the new order, with worthy representatives such as - they were here all day long - Mrs Giannakakis, this super anti-racist, of course, all the moves and all the statements are racist towards the Greeks. So we're clear about a few things. Gender - I said it in New Democracy - defines it only nature and not every mental or psychiatric patient or someone who fraudulently tries to benefit from this gender change, such as, for example, the military issue, which you have not solved, sport and prisons. So a isobite can declare a gender change and go from men to women's prisons and have a multitude of love partners. You haven't made that clear to us. Your parliamentary representative, Mrs Vaki, came out here and told us 'to get away from biology'. So we're getting away from biology. We escape, for you of SYRIZA, from the slavery of religion. So where should we rely? Where do you base your legislation? In anomaly. This situation, therefore, for those who do not know it, is nothing but natural. You are talking about - to make this clear too, because you may not know about the SYRIZA, you are also a little half-hearted - about external intervention, Minister, when you are talking about the Church. You need to know that the Church in Greece is an institution, if you don't know. They can therefore express an opinion on this - I do not know what those people who come to committee - expressing the 0,0001% of the Greek population, but the Church expressing 98% of the Greeks cannot express an opinion. It's an inter-institutional intervention. So, he says, after the announcement made by the Church, the New Democracy: "No, we too need to find an excuse to vote against this bill, against our ideology, which would advise us to vote in favour of it." It therefore finds a step and says "Ah, not fifteen, after eighteen and once". Gentlemen of the New Democracy, do not say that you are joining the Church, because the Church was clear. It says "no" in this bill. The Church did not say it with half a word, nor did it say for eighteen once and half, whether or not it would come back. Mr. Mitsotakis, who was taking pictures of the transs a month ago, today he's hiding, doesn't come here to the House to clarify his position. He puts some representatives, with half the words "yes, but". So the New Democracy has to take a clear stand and took it. You are hitting with these bills the nucleus of the family, the pillar of our nation. It suits you very much a degenerate youth, which is allegedly having a problem with its own gender. He can't rebel, he can't raise the head and see superior ideals of Hellenism, the nation, our tribe. You have made these children - because I say again that nature does not want to correct - with these standards that you give them on television, to want, supposedly, to change sex. These, then, cannot defend our homeland. So you're going to solve demographics by strengthening these behaviors? No, of course not. And since you're so democrats, you could now also show us some poll - you're making polls about everything - to see what the Greeks think. Of course, you have shown many times where you write the Greeks' opinion. Also, Minister, we are talking about children who can change sex, but about the misfortune of children who, according to official statistics, more than 40%, one in two children lives in conditions of material deprivation, that is, total poverty, you have nothing to say. You only have to pay allowances - I forgot! - to illegal immigrants. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need one or two minutes. So open up with this bill clearly the ferry to adopt children from different sexes. So listen, now, you human defenders - as you say - rights, individual rights, what a crime you are committing and how hypocritical you are. So you say that you respect individual rights and you do well! And children, you progressives say, should choose religion in eighteen years, choose sex in fifteen years. All right! With the adoption of children, however, who will in any case bring autonomous action to the Greek Parliament, you will do the following: Beat from the child - because these families adopt it from a baby - the freedom to choose a family. And it has already begun to happen - we all know - with the well-known presenter in Greece. Don't hide in a bunch of bills. So the son of the known presenter will never have the opportunity to say the word "mama". You are compelling him by you democrats, you defenders of individual rights, not to say the word "ma" of this child. So you understand individual rights with such families. It's normal that this man who has as his model two dads, when he's growing up, in his fifteenth year, to want to change and sex. He's lived in a perverted family, and he can psychologically want to do anything. We'll justify it. We do not justify you, however, giving these rather than natural families the opportunity to adopt children. And don't hide behind bills. We in the Golden Dawn fully support, vertically, without asterisks, the pillars of our nation and our country, the family that unites us with our past and with our future and our religion, which so many thousand years supports Hellenism. So you will not deprive them of them from the Golden Dawn or from 98% of the Greek people who support them, believe them and believe them in the belief of your own ideals.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u378	Mrs Eleni Stamatakis, Member of the Piraeus Parliament from SYRIZA, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u379	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, following the vote on the bill on the extension of the cohabitation agreement to the same couples and the principle of equal treatment in the field of work and public life, following the adoption of the legislation on citizenship and social solidarity, today we are pleased to discuss another bill to defend our fellow citizens' rights, which until now were in obscurity, within the limits of illegality and are discriminated against in all places, in their personal relations, in work, in education and in medical care. With today's bill, ladies and gentlemen, we are entitled to transgender people, people who experience their gender in a way that is not equivalent to the registration made at birth, to correct all the documents with all the insurance systems, so that they are in harmony with the existing legal framework, without needing medical intervention and psychiatric diagnosis and have the identity of the gender they are experiencing. This bill we owe to all the individuals and their families who were abused, received bowling from their childhood, murdered or killed at the expense of stigma and social exclusion. They are people who have deprived them of their identity, deprived them of living, working, studying, traveling. We deprived them of the enjoyment of their individual rights. We have heard a great deal about the nature of man and about the debate in the committee, but also today. We have heard, however, and we hear less about a social reality, which for some people is hard to survive. This reality has been brought to the attention of the institutions and we cannot, ladies and gentlemen, close our ears. Because if we want it to be - and we believe it is - Greece which respects human dignity and protects human rights, we cannot leave people north on the mountains of a society that is untrained in terms of social gender. Today, with the bill that we are discussing and will be voting on, we are taking the first step to stop racism and intolerance which are often aimed at transgender people and afflict their personality and dignity. Today, the registered gender is corrected by a judicial decision, provided there is a psychiatric diagnosis and medical intervention. Psychiatric diagnosis and medical intervention, however, are procedures extremely painful and mentally and physically. There are already shocking personal testimony to this and international investigations that confirm it. These procedures are contrary to the positions of the World Health Organisation, the United Nations Organisation, the European Convention on Human Rights and the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. However, the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe has decided that the Member States must take the necessary measures to guarantee full legal recognition of the redefinition of gender, with rapid, transparent, easy and accessible procedures. Already too many countries, one after another, are moving towards new regulations by simplifying the related prerequisites. The draft law therefore puts an end to this regime which forces the individual to carry out a process of mentally and physically painful and degrading, as we have already said. By legislating and voting for these provisions, a person may rectify his/her registered sex by judicial decision, upon request, with absolute respect for privacy and sensitive personal data. The protection of sensitive personal data and respect for his private and social life run the first part of the bill, but also the obligations and any responsibilities that the individual has or had before the correction to the state remain as they were. The state, however, and its departments responsible for issuing documents, in which the identity of the person is recorded, have the obligation to issue the new documents with rectified sex, which solves a great many problems so far with the reluctance of the competent bodies to make the necessary adjustments. In the second part of the bill, which I think has been wronged in today's debate, another very important issue is the establishment of a National Mechanism for the Training, Monitoring and Evaluation of Action Plans for the Rights of the Child. This bill complements a large gap existing in Greek legislation. For the first time, a framework of objectives and mechanisms is established to defend the child, which includes children in poverty and extreme poverty, unaccompanied minors, children in institutions, a very sensitive category, which needs protection. It is a strategic choice of the Greek state to organise a coherent action plan for the rights of the child. Ladies and gentlemen, respect for human rights and the protection of vulnerable groups are seen in practice through such bold legislative initiatives. Today we are talking about a substantial step in bringing rights to people who have so far been invisible. The bill is not a field of micropolitical games and controversies. It is a bill that needs very serious and responsible decisions. The bill that we are going to vote on is a victory of all these invisible men and women, who through long and painful efforts are trying to be visible in the eyes of each of us and want to define themselves as they wish.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u380	Thank you to the speaker for the time. Mr George Ursouzidis has the floor now, also a SYRIZA Member.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u381	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am going to the Stepma to declare myself present, to say that I heard the people who came to the committee presenting their souls, I would say. At the same time, I will testify a quote from the local internet in my prefecture: "Her dad, as I'm sure you do, thinks she's showing her the right way. It protects her from the decline of society and morals. She's telling her the truth. What you both managed, though, is to water her with poison for her true self. She was born from a minority and has a long way ahead of her until she understands what is happening to her and is able to find the first ones who, not only in love, but also in knowledge can help her until she finds her balance. A balance that will fight daily, as the ignorance pushed by people treat her as if it were abnormal, something bad, something that should not exist. And the more it is exposed to such statements of ignorance and misinformation, to put it sweet, the deeper the distance of its beliefs and prejudices with the reality of its body. The moment goes so far that he will seek help, the more certain he will become a miserable man who will never give his true talent to mankind. That is, if she ever manages to overcome some of the guilt and shame she doesn't deserve and dares to ask for help from experts who have lived what she does." Freedom Chiarta: The other real good penny of the family. Normally, here I should have stopped and voted on the bill with two hands, but I would have unfairly unfair to the citizens who came to the Prefecture of Parliament and put forward opinions and their souls, such as the President of the Intergovernmental Support Association, who spoke of a draft law on the individual rights of a minority of intolerance, against coron - and today we heard, thankfully, very few people here - in this Chamber - discrimination, mainly because of the misrepresentation of identification documents with the real identity of these people. Athens' Community President LGBTG stated that legal recognition in this whole is the most important claim of the tribal-transitional community, the fact that we have come to discuss this bill within Parliament is a historic moment. The representative of the Multicoloured School, the parent, said that we are talking about human rights today, about the recipients of these rights to be legally recognised and visible. In particular, intersexual infants, when their gender image does not fall within the typical male-female image, in the typical external anatomy, are recorded arbitraryly. Often this is accompanied by aesthetic and irreversible surgical interventions not intended for their health, but with the aim of 'ordinating' them - the word 'in introductory form' - in terms of gender registration. Parents usually consent to ignorance or fear of social stigma, but people in their adulthood complain that such interventions are malicious in their overwhelming majority. In many cases, even if prenatal testing has been carried out, it is proposed that parents end the healthy interracial fetus because there is no provision for the presence of a man outside the bipolar male female, with the result that healthy interracial embryos are not even given the right to life. This report has happened to her own child, where she was asked to stop in the fifth month of pregnancy. The member of the “Superior Parents” Group stated: We are parents of racial discrimination and we are here to support their right to live a life without discrimination and exclusion. We are with them, we love them, we support them unnecessarily. Children daily face the transfusion and homophobic behavior of society from ironic comments, school bowling, swearing, beating, torture, and even murderous attacks. The issue of age is also very important, because our children are experiencing racism and exclusion from their school years, so we do not understand what it is doing to reach seventeen years. We believe that minors should have the right to correct their registered gender, with the agreement of parents and guardians. Let us not forget that the suicides seen in adolescents, especially in such cases, are not rare. The bill requires the assent of parents and specialist scientists for the age of 15 to adulthood. The proposed committee concerns a pediatrician, psychiatrist, endocrinologist, pediatric surgeon, psychologist and social worker with specialization. The Citizens' Counsel has stated that this bill is indeed an extremely positive step in the first place, mainly because it has been a question that has long been a margin, although it is a social given and a reality in our country. The draft law affirms a legislative development that has already taken place in our courts in recent years. So the Greek Parliament is also coming to ratify something that our judges have thought of. The Citizens' Counsel has done an investigation into what is being heard about the number of people coming to make a gender change. In states such as Denmark, Norway and Malta, with a purely administrative, that is, a simple statement, the rate is 0.001%. I mean, every ten thousand citizens, just one makes use of the law. So there is no reason to worry that people will flow to make a gender change for any other reason. Finally, the chairman of the National Bioethics Committee stated that the bill is an important step, for it is precisely in line with the modern interpretation of the relevant provisions. It is also a big step and one of the few times that Greek case-law seemed bold. So the legislator is good to reward this move. Finally, I will refer to the objections of circumvention of the law. The objections to tax evasion, militarisation and various other things that we have heard, I ignore them because tax evasion and the discharge of militarisation for specific social groups and political 'jacks' groups, are a conscious choice and a raw reality for many decades in the country. No law stops them. It's over. Such hypocrisy cannot be tolerated, at least by me. Furthermore, the alleged objections are irrelevant to the substance of the bill, which is anthropocentric. The state must limit possible circumventions in every bill. But it does not cancel a piece of legislation for that reason. I believe that those who call for'storage' - in introductory form - as a reason for rejecting the bill in mind are insurmountable and self-interested. In the consciousness of every democratic citizen, there is the guilt of the state's chronic weakness towards every vulnerable citizen. In terms of the respected Holy Fathers of the Church, and their absoluteness, I think it exposes them not only to our vulnerable people, but to the whole society of informed citizens. Is it ever possible for such a dissatisfaction which has been heard - fortunately, by very few - in this Chamber, but also by the Vice-President of the New Democracy, to be something that expresses them? I can't believe it. The repulsive theories that attract their origin from racial and racist theories have nothing to do with cultivated people. This bill comes in mind to cure years of problems of violating fundamental rights for our fellow people who have suffered decades of stressful discrimination. Finally, I would like to stress that in this area, ladies and gentlemen, there are no tortillas and political toys. Many of these people broke up in barbarity, and it's known that they left life. For society to change from one day to the next, no reason! They don't change with the adoption of a law of entrenched beliefs of decades. I have no hope like that, when the Church is across and with such an unequivocal word, and it should be next to those people who need it. Human rights are not an issue of opinion, balance or weighting of political interests, but it is a matter of situations that have a decisive effect on human lives. We must be very careful when our decisions are about the lives of others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u382	Mr. John Shahinides has the floor since the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u383	Thank you, Madam President. In fact, today's bill goes far beyond me. Is this all that has been heard by the mouth of the Prime Minister himself, the President of Parliament, the Minister himself, the Parliamentary Representative of SYRIZA, the SYRIZA rapporteur and all the others, believe them? My difference, can I express it in this Chamber? Can you stand it? How hypocrites are you? Can I yell in this room for my own beliefs? I am also a minority today, unfortunately, in Greece because I love my country because I want to identify myself as a nationalist. What right do you democrats want to deprive us of this self-determination? How far are the limits of your democracy and the differences you tolerate, Minister? Probably, along with I.D., there's also an I.D. crisis on SYRIZA. All that you've taken in the last few days has been heard a lot, with the cover of the Minister of National Defence, with the door that the Prime Minister ate in Perivoli, Panagia. You are trying to avenge anything that has to do with homeland, religion and family. Unfortunately, this is your idealism, which you want to present as progress. We can't afford that much progress. We don't want to be so progressive. We prefer to be conservative. Stand up, anyway, for our difference. Accept a different point of view. Isn't that what you've been supporting for so many years, that you've been supporting anyone who has a differential? We did not say that some people who have any issue, whether they belong to a minority with sexual perversion, or anything else, that they have no right to this life as humans. But don't get confused. That's not what you're going to impose on us who think we're right. And after you decided all this, trying to protect even the elements of those who change their identity, why do they go out with the strips and make their famous parade? Isn't that where personal data apply? Tell us the truth, this hypocrisy of yours ends. You mentioned religion. It is a disgrace to really catch your religion in your mouth. Our religion, our Orthodox faith, both through the Holy Synod and through the Athonite State, took a stand on this draft law. But here is something that I would say in sporting terms "we play you three times and we lose you". Whenever you want, you get science. Whenever you want, you take religion. This draft law is one of the few, which religion and science speak of one thing, male and female. I guess you can't take that. Tell us the truth, Minister, our Prime Minister's relations with Pope Francis are not perfect? Last Thursday, the friend of the Prime Minister, Mr. Tsipras, Pope Francis at the Papal Academy of Life and the Vatican Bioethics Advisory Council - mentioned by too many in here - criticised those who claim that people can themselves choose the gender to which they belong. And he went on to say: "The Utopia of the neutral puts at risk the creation of a new life. Such progress in biomedical technology risks leaving the source of energy that strengthens the bond between men and women and makes them fertile. Instead of comparing the negative interpretations of sexual differences, they want to completely cancel these differences, proposing techniques and practices that make them irrelevant to human development and relations." He saw Pope Francis. And if you want to remember something older, it's the man, the Prime Minister's friend, who once stated that transsexuals are exactly the same as nuclear weapons. There have been statements. We've heard too much. Some, even by SYRIZA, are so divided among you that others have argued that it is purely medical, others have argued that it is a purely legal matter. Here I read in a paper statement by your State Secretary for Education that says: I recognise the right to the Church to intervene as a spiritual institution, of course they are entitled, but at this point it must not overlook the fact that it is purely medical, such as children's diabetes. I'm not saying it. Mr. Zuraris says it's medical, says it's biogenetic. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Sahinides, presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] With regard to the amendment tabled once again - or rather the third time if I am not mistaken - Amendment No 1276, with a special number 113, here another partner, Mr. Dimitris Kammenos, who is also Vice-President of the Parliament, has written an article in Sunday's newspaper 'PRO theme', where he highlights and says: 'I prefer to exercise, as a Greek Government, a commission in Thrace' - we do not want a commission, a commission in Cyprus, Mr Minister - 'and not the ED. I, as Greek Government, have the control, the constant control of each element, which is working on a border change rather than the EDPS." This statement by Mr Dimitrios Kammenos refers to the effort to recognise Turkish minorities and Macedonian minorities. They are the statements of your own Vice-President of the co-chairman, who said he would vote against it. I put this in the Minutes too. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Sahinides, presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] [[At this point, the Honourable Member's speech bell is ringing.]] As far as the amendment is concerned, we are actually raising our hands here. But what has not been heard in this Chamber, which has been said by all the left-wing ideologists, is that the reasons why you are supporting this draft law have nothing to do with progress or with anything else. Does it mean anything to you, Minister, the name William Münzenberg? He is the man who has built the School of Frankfurt, who was dedicated to the destruction of Western civilization. And tell me how many similarities you find in relation to what you're trying to apply. One of the founders of this was Willi Münzenberg. He had explicitly stated that the aim of this school was to organize the intellectuals and use them to make Western civilization stink. Only then, after all his values have been destroyed and his life has become impossible, we can impose the dictatorship of the proletariat. [[At this point, the Honourable Member's speech bell is ringing.]] Wait a minute, Madam President. And it refers to eleven controversial points: One, it was the creation of racism offences. That reminds me of something. Continuous changes to create confusion among ordinary citizens. Teaching sex and homosexuality in children. Undermining schools and the authority of the teacher. Huge immigration to destroy identity. Promote excessive alcohol consumption, this has escaped you. Permission of churches. Unreliable legal system with prejudice against victims of crime. Dependence on the benefits of the state. Checking for dismantling from the media. Encouraging family dismantling. That's what you're doing, and nothing less, the Frankfurt School. And so that the Independent Greeks, the pseudo-patriots and the Greeks of the false right of the New Democracy do not rush, so that they do not say that "all right, this bill was a defeat", I inform you, gentlemen, that to defeat, you must fight first. And you have surrendered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u384	Mr Ioannis Giokas, Member of the Communist Party of Greece, has the floor now. Here, Mr. Gioka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u385	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that the government, with this bill, seeks to appear as a government progressive and socially sensitive, to cover the fact that it is the government that continues and increases the level of social rights, working people's rights, wages, pensions, benefits, that it is the government which is preparing a very democratic and very progressive blow to the strike, that even at the level of democratic freedoms it maintains in force a reactionary legislative framework, 'terrorists' and goes by saying that it wraps people up in a glue and not only keeps it in place, but that it strengthens it even further on the basis of the directions of the European Union. I imagine that this is all about protecting the weak, which the Prime Minister said before. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] I think it is revealing itself the confession of the Minister of Finance, who said yesterday in a Sunday's paper that this bill shows that this government can manage the memorandum and leave a progressive footprint. That is, on the one hand, to implement a barbaric anti-popular, reactionary policy, on the other hand, to look for some points, in order to show a progressive and left-wing person. So, here we are talking about a diversion, communal diversion. For this reason, too, a very serious issue is dealt with by an incredible turbulence and opportunism, thus fueling conservative and reactionary reflexes, like the ones we heard just now from the Vima. But we are also talking about a bill whose philosophy is totally integrated into the government's overall policy. There is the following question: why is the whole serious attack on the scientifically documented view of the JRC, which has even received characteristics of slander, distortion, vulgar anti-communism, from all the wings of this House? Is this about the fact that the JRC highlights the hypocrisy of the government? Does it have to do with themselves the different proposals that might exist between the parties to protect transgender people and the inter-governmental children? In our view, this is a deeper issue. Besides, the bill itself has a much deeper target than the protection of these people, who, in other words, does not succeed in doing so, and we very much doubt it is even seeking to do so. The bill promotes complete separation of biological and social sex. It shows that gender is exclusively a mold given by society to the individual. It condemns - and rightly so - social stereotypes for the family, but in their place it puts other stereotypes which are also emanating from specific economic, social and political reasons. In the end, then, this controversy is about the conflict of two-dimensional theories, of philosophical perceptions, say what you want. One view says that there is an objective reality, biological, social reality, says that social perceptions about sexes are not shaped by the individual experience of each and every one, but on the basis of a specific historical, social and political environment, that individual rights are not dispersed from social collective rights, and therefore that, in order to be able to exercise individual rights to gender change, in a substantial and not standard manner in those cases where the individual, in fact, is, for a number of reasons of biological, social or other, experience a strong conflict, between the characteristics of gender and gender that he feels belongs to, he is required to rely on certain objective criteria and, above all, on measures of whole social protection of the individual, by abolishing, of course, surgical intervention and changing legislation where needed and not on a simple request, without any social support or protection. The other view of the bill is idealistic, which denies all this and claims that there is no objective reality, that everyone is what they think, regardless of ideological, social or even class references. From there ultimately the different proposals made by the parties are the result of that. And that is why this bill does not even approximate the minimum social conditions to base these people's legal rights. On the contrary, he denies them in the name of individual rights. Is it accidental that these views that go through the bill are so popular in the European Union, in the United States of America and in other countries? The Prime Minister spoke before about the gurues of neoliberalism. Is it accidental that these views have been promoted in recent years, especially since 1991 systematically by all these gurus of neoliberalism? No chance. Why? But because they are very convenient and the implications of these opinions. It is very convenient to want to convince them that everything is relevant, that it does not matter if you are unemployed, poor, impoverished, but it does matter how you feel, that, after all, we do not need to take certain specific measures for working women, for mothers, for the protection of maternity, because, after all, gender biology is overtaken. If you adopt these extensions, it is of little importance. It's about what you're helping to move on. That is why we say that the government's bill is fully integrated into its overall anti-popular policy. Nor is it accident, of course, that the Minister of Finance brought this whole theory back yesterday with the distortion of the positions of the JRC from a newspaper that is one of the bulwarks of neoliberal journalisticism and not just in our country. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. The funny thing about the case is that he gave this theory to Marxism and even overlooked it with the objective development of the family. Of course, the Minister in question has not hesitated and the memorial policy to give it to Marx. However, since he mentioned it, let's see what the classics were saying on this issue. We read, for example, in Engels's work on the origin of family, personal property and state: 'What we can assume today is that sexual relations can be regulated, after the upcoming scanning of capitalist production, is mainly of a negative nature. It's limited to what's going to be missing. But what will be added? This will be judged, when a new generation is married, a generation of men who will never have been found in the need to buy with money or other social means the giving of a woman. And a generation of women who will never have found themselves in the need to give a man for any reason other than true love, nor to deny their loved one in fear of fear in the face of economic consequences. When these people are gonna be there, they'll write in their old shoes what we think they should do today. They shall build their own lives and their own public opinion on each other's actions.' It's over and out. Others, therefore, the history and development of the family, which, of course, is evolving and will also evolve in the future, and furthermore, the refusal of objective gender segregation. The formation of the family in the future, when today's exploitive relations disappear and the government's policy, which not only serves them, but also strengthens them even more. Finally, with the hypocrisy and all that craving the government is doing!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u386	Mr. Charilaos Jamaklis from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u387	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a draft law which, in my opinion unnecessarily and causes excessive, unfair and in many respects hypocritical reactions. In Parliament, however, there must be a fruitful and calm dialogue between the wings and a productive outcome. In our legislation, for the first time twenty years ago, the possibility of registering the gender-change register was introduced - as a result of a change in the state of natural persons with Law 2503/1997. I have to make a necessary point here that the Government of Constantine Karamanlis did not introduce the possibility of registering the gender change. It was simply a prerogative. It has been heard by many colleagues and it is necessary to make this clarification for restoring the truth. The draft law therefore does not introduce a new regulation on the registration of gender-change registries. However, the State never adopted a special legislation on gender change, and the case law was left to regulate the conditions and conditions for a person to be able to correct due to a change in his or her state of affairs. Until recently, the case-law of the Greek courts prevailed in the view that two conditions for gender change are needed: first, psychiatric surveillance and diagnosis of undoubted transgenderism, and second, the subjection of the face to surgery. Since 2016, however, we have clearly and substantially consolidated a shift in our case-law on this issue. A body of judicial decisions - and not only the one mentioned in the explanatory statement No 418/2016 of the Athens Peace Court - have considered that the removal of genitals and consequent sterilisation, as a prerequisite for the recognition of gender change, constitutes a requirement and practice that violates Article 8 of the ECHR and Articles 2 and 26 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, which are also our internal law. Indicatively Illustrations Nos 1572/2016, 572/2017 and 604/2017 of the Athens Peace Court, number 146/2017 of the Amaroussi Peace Court and number 1479/2016, 281/2017, 1092/2017 and 1147/2017 of the Thessaloniki Peace Court. This recent internal case-law is not ‘poor in hunger’ or arbitraryly originated from courageous peacekeepers, but it follows the case law of the European Court of Human Rights, which has already been in place since 2002 in the ‘Goodwin v United Kingdom’ case, it has found that the requirement for surgical intervention in order to legally recognise the gender identity of breaches human rights. In the most recent judgment, ‘Garçon and Nicot v France’, the Court held that the requirement for surgery, i.e. amputation, actually places the right to privacy under the condition of waiving the full exercise of the right to the physical integrity of the individual. This crisis of the European Court of Justice is also based on the explicit condemnation by the World Health Organisation, which has called on its members, and Greece, to ensure that sterilisation or other medical procedures leading to it are not prerequisites for the legal recognition of the desired sex. It is also based on the European Parliament's resolution that Member States should establish or review the procedures for the legal recognition of sex, with a view to fully respecting the right of transgender people to dignity and physical integrity. It is based, finally, on the labelling of the United Nations Torture Organisation report of 1 February 2013, that the condition of sterilisation, as a prerequisite for the recognition of transgender people, is a torture. I would point out to the House that the decisions of the European Court of Justice are binding on the Member States - members of the Council of Europe, so also on Greece - and that, therefore, the adoption of the relevant rules is an imperative and self-evident obligation of the State and is not ideism or arbitrary and uncontrolled jurisdiction. Finally, I would remind the House that the Citizens' Ombudsman, the independent authority which has recently promoted the principle of equal treatment, very recently on 7-4-2017, has confirmed, on the basis of the cases it has managed, that this problem is dealt with by many of our fellow citizens and has highlighted the need to take a legislative initiative to recognise and protect gender identity, not only for the resolution of the people concerned, but also in order to remove confusion in the Greek society, which maintains stereotypes of bias and depreciation and marginalisation behaviour. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing the legal possibility of recognition of gender, which will result from the guarantee of a judicial crisis in the applicant or the applicant's self-determination. If this statement by Mr Panagiotopoulos fears that it may be defective due to error, the possibility provided for in the draft law of the applicant or applicant to change it is clear that it cures any initial error. Furthermore, the proposal for a law tabled by the Qualified Opposition today on the need to provide the court with a medical certificate, obviously psychiatric, although this is abstraction, on the one hand, against the already established internal and international case law, and, on the other, an infringement of the right of transgenders to dignity, since it considers a priori of gender discomfort as a disease that needs to be monitored and diagnosed. But there is also the humanitarian approach to the issue. There is - and let us not close our eyes and ears - a number of our fellow citizens who live in the margin and in the dark, who are discriminated against, who are without access to work, social security, social affairs, assembled, disapproved and existing violent and inhumane behaviours. Ladies and gentlemen, do we have the right to allow this situation to be perpetuated, or do we, on the contrary, have an obligation to lift it? Is the humanitarian approach associated with the position we take in the Chairs of this House? Ladies and gentlemen, I am addressing everyone, but above all those who have been taught on the basis of the principles of Constitutional law. In a rule of law, the assumption that the enjoyment of individual rights does not depend on the small or large number of persons who will potentially benefit is the core of the nature of these rights. A rule of law, even a single citizen, must recognise it, respect it and protect it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u388	Mr Georgios Vagionas has the floor from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u389	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, he is absent - but in any case he is represented - the colleague and friend, Nikos Panayotopoulos, the draftsman of the bill, has covered the matter from all sides. But he let some fellow doctors talk about this. The rights of all the weak, homosexual, foreign and refugees are respected by all. There is no doubt about that. Every man in Parliament for many decades has had his own experience. So I'll speak as a doctor. To give you to understand, I'm following the Hippocrates' oath. What does the Hippocrates' oath say? I'll tell you very briefly with three lines. "I will use the treatment to help patients with my strength and my judgment, but I will never harm or blame." You are ignoring that, and you are talking only about rights. But those who have and bear the burden of childhood, puberty, adult and so forth. have other reasons. These, then, are the fifth vow of the Hippocrates. So, with a driver, I went my whole life. And my medical life isn't a little bit. It's been 50 or two years. That driver I still have. That is why I am not voting in favour of the bill of improperly progressive government. I'm explaining. Progress means turning a page, making life better, transmitting knowledge, bringing balance. This bill does not bring any of this to the life of the Greeks. But surely it will bring about social unrest - I hope that this will be done - and family dramas. Progress was the law of Constantine Karamanlis in 1976 for his time. It's overrun by history. It is understandable that it must change, as many countries have moved forward and changed this law. However, how will such serious changes be made without any consultation? Who has the government consulted on medical matters, which exist and no one disputes them? With who? With the judge, to seal the gender change? That's the bill. How will they happen, ignoring the law of nature, which you absolutely do not mention. Gender determines chromosomes, XYs and XYs. Forty-eight are also twenty-four pairs. So it is a chromosome case, whether the child will be born male or female. And the point is, until 1980 when the ultrasounds came out, we didn't know what was going to be born, boy or girl. Since 1980, with the ultrasounds, we have started to say that it is probably a diagnosis of good. Parents can notice changes, differences in their child, but this does not happen until the age of 12. There are rules. That's a rule. There are exceptions. Don't take the exceptions. The exception will be noticed by the teacher, by a commentary. He'll see her. But at the tender age of puberty when does puberty begin? We say in the law that paediatric hospitals receive children up to 14 years of age. Of the fifteen or more are considered adults. And yet, the tenderest age is this age, the teenage age, which doesn't know if he's a child, he's a teenager, he's a man, or the corresponding girl, if she's a woman, if she's a lady, what she is. In this age, therefore, things are quite difficult. But it is not at all difficult for people who have read Aristotle and know medicine. Nature does not make any accidental or unnecessary. Nature may be a little distracted, but this is not the judge’s right to decide. It will be decided on the basis of medical advice, made by qualified people who are endocrines, are psychiatrists, are geneticists, are biologists and so on. Do you have any of this? So, ladies and gentlemen, at no point is fragile psyche being taken into account in this regard by a teenager of fifteen or seventeen or twenty-seven years old who has no right to alcohol and other things, suddenly being able to redefine the foundations of his life before he is even grown up. One good morning the teenager gets up, he announces to his family that he has decided to change sex, with what this implies for the relatives and twenty-five decisions, because he regretted, to change his gender with what he was born and declared in the registry. Because this bill is blind at some points and the gender identity change is not final and irreversible. You leave a window and that's what concerns me in the original situation. 'To what end?' Is the average citizen, whom you, Minister, may have been disturbed about this? You give no answer because you don't know the answer. You may have it in mind, but you do not notify it. The responsible attitude would be to set stricter safety rules and modalities with medical advice that I have said. Your position, ladies and gentlemen of the government, once again proves irresponsible and dangerous to citizens. Personally after half a century of medical consciousness, measuring the consequences and side effects of the law, I cannot vote in favour. I disagree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u390	Mr. Theodore Dritsas has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u391	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, a great deal has been said in committee and in today's sitting and they will be told tomorrow to continue the process. At the same time, however, too many creepy words have been said. For me and for my personal sensations I hierarchy as the most creepy of what I have heard all these hours in stricken and continuously by the leading leaders of the criminal Nazi Organization of Golden Dawn that they agree and are fully matched by the announcement of the hierarchy of the Church of Greece. That upsets me. Golden Dawn is identified and fully agrees with the hierarchy of the Greek Church, the criminal, Nazi Golden Dawn, not in my opinion, but according to the finding of the judicial investigation that has been referred back to them and tried in the common experience of everyone. I hope that the same discomfort that I am feeling, when I hear this and within the Greek Parliament, will be felt by the hierarchs. I want to hope so. If they do feel it, they must also show it. And to be completely separated from this approach and matching. Let no one invoke that the Church is not politicized, because unfortunately the Church is politicizing. It doesn't bother me that much. I think, as a liberal man, that both the hierarchs and the Church, not as a whole, but the people who are involved in this leading process, are members of the hierarchy and members of the Church, have the right to have opinions and policies and to express them and not to hide them. But this must be made in all the clear terms of the parity, not by invoking the inspired approach but by the simple opinion of every citizen. These "games" designations for a government legislation before the Greek Parliament are nothing but a political point of view. It's respectable, but it's a political point of view. A much more political view is the reference to the same announcement of the hierarchy, which says that it calls on the government "to show similar interest in solving the most serious problems affecting the people". If this is not a political point of view and political criticism that the SYRIZA - ANEL Government does not show such interest in solving the Greek people's most serious problems, then what is it? And that, of course, can be a view similar to the New Democracy, with PASOK, with one another, with anyone but it is a political view. It is therefore absolutely essential for the discomfort, if the hierarchs feel it, to be proclaimed on the side of the Golden Dawn of identification and agreement, to manifest it publicly. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to agree with my colleague, Mr Jakkali, who has just spoken, that all this noise does not correspond to the substance and to the gravity and the extent of the matter that the Minister and the Government are trying to legislate. Because it has nothing to do with the crisis in the Greek family nor with the nation nor with the demographic or any of it. Anyone can, of course, make ghosts. They are ghosts, however, and will prove to be very soon. It's already proved. There has been a great deal of mention throughout the debate that in the Greek legal system the gender change has been legislated since 1976, with this famous regulation of the Karamanlis government at the time, which was involved in the administration. In this context, however, the regulation of Article 14 of Law No.344/11-6-1976 on registrations does not specify either age restriction or restrictions on medical or other conditions or anything. Nothing says the relevant article. Read it. But what happened? Forty years ago, it was obviously unthinkable that a gender change could go ahead while there was the problem. There was not only forty years, and four hundred, and a thousand, and two thousand years before there was this problem, it was not now born of the "sepsis" of modern culture. Modern civilization is now simply coming to deal with it and regulate it with the experience of all these years, decades and centuries. The problem is recognized by everyone whether it is Church or science, whether they are political parties or what is there. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Give me two minutes if you're kind. He's coming to set it up. At that time, however, no one thought of changing sex, except by doing surgery. And they spent forty years and some people were tortured, spent a lot of money, got involved with honest and valid doctors but also with sketchers and exploiters in Greece and, mostly, abroad, made gender-change surgery. But that was something we didn't know and since we didn't know it, it doesn't matter, let it happen. And so then the judge, as the Karamanlis arrangement predicted, validated a registration. The tragedy and the problem, however, existed. That's how we've lived for centuries, decades and for the last forty years. And the Council of Europe, the European Parliament, the Parliamentary Assembly, the World Health Organization, came up and said on all sides that there was no need for surgery or even psychiatricisation of the matter. Because yes, all these people who are a small number of people who are in this problem of gender confusion have gone on their own, they do not have to be imposed by law on doctors and on endocrines, psychiatrists and surgeons and their families. Because it is a problem and they are trying to deal with it alone for so many years, without the welfare state, without legislation, without anything. And we come to say 'by means of a solemn declaration of will'. But the will in this case is negligible? One believes that it is easy for a young man - and growing - and for his parents, when the dominant standards - objectively speaking, subjectively or I don't know what it is - is feminineness for girls and masculineity for boys, so it comes to a child, while it's called Georgia, to feel George and while it's called George, to feel Georgia, because nature got them involved, to create another situation, existential, real, identifiable by science and by all? Does that form a false will? Go be for five months, for a month.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u392	Mr. Drizza, finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u393	In length of time can it shape a firm will both of the individual and the family false as fashion, anything? I understand exactly, when there is no legal possibility, that there is some need to see, and the Minister has speeded up and adjusted it. But the problem does not even arise from fifteen. It is clear from all the twelve that it comes from all eight. What are we going to tell this kid? Wait till you're eighteen, then we'll see if you can make a decision? These are paranoid things. And we're not talking about us. I don't have such an incident in my family. I could have. Because these incidents also have poor people and rich and educated and unformed and right-wing and left-wing and religious and non-religious Greeks and Turks and Asians and Americans and English and all. If this is not the basis of the approach, then others such as the danger of the nation, the danger of the homeland, the danger of the family where they go?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u394	Mr. Dritsa, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u395	I'm done, Mr. President. In this sense, I think this bill comes to respond in the way it can - then we will see better regulations and experience will show a lot - about the problem of these people and not about the whole society. It comes to respond in a way compatible with modern developments and science and the reflection of societies around the world and in Europe with very well-inhabited, from a scientific and social point of view, decisions by the institutions of the European Union. Because they have moved on the basis of the experiential relationship between people who face a problem and their need to become equal members of society. That's the point. If we want to have a serious debate, talk and see any other parameters. But this ideology of a problem of our fellow citizens that the state has to stand up to is out of every sense! And we feed the criminals, killers of the Golden Dawn. That is what we are doing with all this misery of the political exploitation of the problem of these people. Let's get this over with.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u396	Before giving the floor to the next speaker, the Minister asked that some legislative improvements be made. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u397	They're legal, Mr. President. A pediatrician in the committee, as provided for in Article 3, was taken by mistake, and also a numbering in the amendment on the provisions of bankruptcy law.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u398	I would ask that these legislative improvements be distributed. Mr. George Pallis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u399	Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking here about a bill and it would be good for some colleagues and some of them to read the title. We are talking about the legal recognition of gender, about the indiscriminate individual right of some people finally to identify themselves in a society and not to be the victims of a mob, the mob we met earlier than the headquarters of the Golden Dawn, who claimed their own right. They didn't tell us. They have not dared to express in Parliament what is their right to claim. We are talking about the lives and hopes of many of our fellow people - a minority in the whole of our society, but many of our fellow citizens - for an equal life than everyone else. That is the essence of the legislation we are discussing. Patriot polls, religious deliriums, opinions on scientific or non-scientific prestiges, excuses and political charlatans. We've all met these days. Politicians hoped that this government would not go any further in guaranteeing individual freedoms and rights, that this bill would never come and they would highlight how to support what we will not bring when the time comes and who, at best, are absent, have said that they would vote against this bill. But we have other phenomena. The inability and inadequacy of the political issues of some of Parliament's wings to have a political debate, throws the ball into the stands and asks us today for the identity of religious opinions and social opinions tomorrow. I say that for the New Democracy party. It is not the Golden Dawn that has asked us for the identity of religious opinions, ladies and gentlemen. We've got everything mixed up here. At the same time, however, we have not discussed the second part of the bill at all. I do not want to hear too much of the fact that this place has been in power over all these years, but simply to admit the negligence they have shown over all these years to protect children's rights and to create a mechanism through which we will now be discussing responsibly, with enough data on how to protect children. Guys are the ones that are under the age of 15. A lot of talk about these fifteen years. What are we doing? Are we dealing with all the issues with this bill? Oh, no. We are dealing with the issues of a large majority of this community. There is a future and yet there are also children who are younger and, possibly, should be involved in the course of things and with the recommendation of the committees to assess whether to some children we will be able to protect them from a much younger age. We should never discuss the right to redefinition of the gender. This was also raised in the debate. Is that an impunity, ladies? The choice can be punishment? One and de facto? Like all these years for some children once and for all some people have made their choice and have defined what their gender is? Are we really going to see them? Will the fact be that the groups that state progressively or centrally, how centrally and progressively are they or are they going to stifle the voters of the Golden Dawn? How many Europeans are you, gentlemen of the New Democracy?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u400	Very.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u401	Don't you realize that with your attitude the world you're going to catch is going to the original? You are expressing society with this attitude. Don't you understand? Have you talked to the People's Party about these issues? Do you have a homogeneous view on these issues with the People's Party? I guess not. I won't be long. I'll be done before the end of my time. There have been many funny things about Mount Athos, etc. You, gentlemen of the New Democracy, who in 1967 the Karamanlis government legislated - under the terms of that time - the right to gender change, have ever suspected that the unbaptised one may have been eroded? Did he trouble you then? You put up these issues? Your attitude is funny, gentlemen. Your attitude is funny, because it offends all these people and everyone separately. You dare not look into each man's eyes separately. Not everyone has the same problems and not all problems are dealt with in the same way. But refuse to talk about the substance of the matter. I would therefore say that, apart from any doubts, reservations, opinions that may exist in the Chamber, each colleague and fellow Member should, after hearing the minutes and once again read the minutes, especially the committee, where the institutions and guests of the Greek Parliament came and raised the issues as they put them from their own point of view, with their individual responsibility to take a stand against these people. I would say that it is also a good opportunity for this debate to continue, to see what we are going to do with those children who are not 15 years old, who are going to be some time 15 years old, but those children who have not been born and who are not even going to come and face the same problems again. We want a democratic society, we want to prove to all children that children are equal and we want to protect children from the bowling from the irresponsibility of certain parents who want to define their future and their lives, from the oppression that we are putting them under, and at the moment we are talking about and put in the Greek Parliament, because all this hurts people today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u402	Mr Nikolaos Friend from SYRIZA has the floor. Until Mr Phillips comes to Stepma, I would like to inform the House that the list today will be completed with Mr Manda's position. So there are seven or eight other Members left if I'm not mistaken. So with Mr. Manda, today's meeting is over. Mr. Philly, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u403	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, why has an issue of human rights concerning a very small group of our fellow citizens caused such noisy reactions? Why have I embroidered the conservative party and its reactionary ends? This is a symbolic reform that goes beyond this particular problem and focuses on public dialogue the need for our country to come out of the crisis on the basis of major reforms with progressive left-wing values. That is also the case today's debate. That is why this unexpectedly aggressive attitude of the conservative party and its reactionary ends. What is at stake today is the hegemony of the future, that is to say, if our country is to escape the anachronisms and antiquities of the past that are recorded in the womb of today's crisis and if our country is to join, coming out of the crisis, in a horizon of prosperity and at the same time constantly evolving freedom and democracy. That's the risk. I believe that this hegemony has not been judged today. SYRIZA may be a majority election, but the issue of hegemony has not been judged. It is judged every day with small or larger controversies and battles for reforms in our lives, in the state and in society. The crisis that we are living in and its neoliberal management strengthens conservative stereotypes, revives anachronisms and often creates forms of social civil war. If even the smaller social groups, the most defenceless because of their little power, do not have a place in the new national and social effort, then it is obvious that we will emerge from the crisis in a way that is very negative. That's why it matters who governs this course of exit from the crisis. Today we have learned a lesson about what concepts mean, according to which social inequalities are in the nature of man. In this symbolic confrontation involving very few of our fellow citizens, but which has - I repeat - a strong symbolism, the hierarchy, that is, the administration and not the Body of the Church, which is the millions of believers in our country, again politically. He's claiming a political role. Does he have a right? He has it and he claims it. But when you claim a political role, you will be dealt with politically. There are two measures and two weights, namely one divine establishment and the other a global policy. These are fake formalities. When one goes down to the political line - Mr. Dritsas referred to the announcement of the hierarchy criticizing the government on political issues - when the well-known blessing for the 'Lord's Right' comes back, where the Church is the Right of the Lord, then it is obvious that in this political pursuit of the Church - I mean the hierarchy - the believers belonging to many parties, many ideological concepts and which unite them only their faith in Christ, all citizens within and outside the Church, obviously claim a democratic solution. This solution is, in my opinion, a constitutional review that will make clear the roles of the Church and the State. I do not use the terminology'separation' or'separation' because misunderstandings are made on the part of the Church. But it's about segregation. Other than the hierarchy, the Church as an institution, other than society, politics and other secular institutions. I'm pointing out a coincidence. At the last meeting of the hierarchy where the manifesto came out for our transgender fellow citizens and the government, there is a second manifesto with claims from the Church for its place in the political system. In other words, it opens up the Church on its own terms, how it means its relationship with the state. It is interesting, because we have a sample of this, with its intervention now on human rights issues. Obviously not all Christian churches - I mean their leaderships - in this preaching, which pushes people to marginalization. Some time ago we read the Pope's letter to the homosexual community of Rome, Italy. He doesn't agree with them at all, but he's having a dialogue, he's accepting them. It does not refer to an anthropology of the Old Testament. It takes into account the findings of science, where the so-called 'third sex' is not only a creation, a choice of a social character, but also a predetermined development of genes in some cases. It is also obvious that the message of the Christian congregation should be a message of respect for the freedom of the face. Christ said: “He that wants me to come...”. He didn't abduct or threaten anyone to take him with him. Also, the Church must respect what many have named the way each man claims to exist. Obviously, for the Church certain rights and earlier all the rights of citizens and believers constituted sin. Today many are sins. But so we cannot discuss a democratic society. We could say a lot of things. Just to point out that our people have many problems, in fact, and the last thing that can inspire them, mislead them, are sermons that lead to populism. Those who think that these kinds of reactions can be created are out of the way. The colleague, Mr. Dritsas, also pointed out one, is the truth, very dangerous development, that not only the New Democracy, which after all is a big party and wants to take votes and traditionally faces the Church not as a divine foundation but as a customer mechanism, but also the Golden Dawn and in a way that is extremely annoying and dangerous first - first of all for the believers, spoke in ways that he wants to embrace the Church, in the sense of tightening it up. And we know what it means when a criminal organization tightens someone. I also expect a disapproval of this position of the Golden Dawn from the official Church. No games with Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u404	Mr. Philly, please finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u405	I'm done. I'm sorry. The bill is therefore an organic part of a great reform effort. This is not a left-hand piece of legislation, as the New Democracy and the JRC are accusing us of saying: 'It is not a left-hand card of what you say' - of course on its own. This is not a distraction against the extermination memorandum, which, despite our efforts and the cracks we discover with social sensitivity, remains devastating for our society. Oh, no. This is, I repeat, an attempt to make a major reform after, when we get out of the crisis. I mean, modern man has many identities. It is involved in many social processes and is subjected to various oppressions at many levels. The issue of gender in various versions, of course, is affected by the general social, class direction, but primarily reflects the specific nature of a classic nature. As they say, what rich, what penise, what king what a soldier - on another subject about death - here applies in our case. Everyone is subject to the issues of gender relations. Everyone is subject to environmental impacts. Everybody. I must point out to this that the staff are deeply political. It is not a question of disorientation, nor of an attempt at extreme subjection. Anyone who has the problem will see what they will answer when they are accused of being blamed today by some of the Left for extreme subjections. Obviously, legislation does not solve the problem of the inequality and problems of our transgender and inter-governmental fellow citizens. It is, however, potentially differentiating between and strengthening rights, namely the constant struggle for a society of freedom and equality, where we are abolishing the exploitation of human beings.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u406	Come on, Mr. Philly. You speak 12 and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u407	I believe - and I conclude with this - that the state needs to take initiatives in schools, in families, in neighborhoods, not in the climate that prevailed here through certain aspects, the dangers of home and family and morality, the hood of morality, but of respect for people with their problems, the psychological support of our fellow citizens, whom we want to protect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u408	Mr. Aivatidis has the floor from Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u409	Thank you, Mr President. Without amazement, I have heard from the Minister, Mr Kontonis, that he is a fiancée of the October Revolution and has indirectly but clearly renounced stalinism. Of course, on Lenin, things - one would say - were on a progressive path. Indeed, on Lenin homosexuals they were able to hold positions of government. Instead, homosexuality was criminalized and even brought sentences of several years of imprisonment or forced or displacement. I'm going to ask Mr. Kontonis, since he's a fiancée of the October Revolution, he knows about Lenin, what was the symbol of the Red Army's medals? Is it the same symbol, which is there on an exhibit, number 67, at the Acropolis Museum? So, the quadrant or fucking or swastika? I think he knows. With regard to Mr Dritsa who spoke a moment ago, this speech was a complete manifestation of extreme lennism or even stalinism, after he destroyed a major right to this presumption of innocence. I now come to the introductory bill. Self-determination of gender is inextricably linked to sexual preferences. I think that's allotted. Therefore, gender discrimination is interwoven with homosexuality or philosophilia. Otherwise, if it is not synonymous with homosexuality, it is another disorder, that of mere parentheses. I would like to support the disrespect of the representative of the Sacred Session, in the committee that took place, which took place with the withdrawal of some of the representatives of the transgenders. The LGBTQ community, L from Lesbian, G from Gay, B from Bysexual, T from Transgender and Q from Queen. This acronym is particularly important in terms of its last letter, the Q, because the word queer means the weird one, the strange one, and it directly refers to the queer anarchism, where the forefather of this anarchist ideology was Adolf Brad, who had already published a magazine on homosexuality since 1896. Confirmation of what I am saying, is that at the meeting that took place outside Parliament, there were people from the LOAT community who were accompanied by anarchists who even brought the classic flag, red - black. Of course the flag of queer anarchism is the one with pink and black. I believe that the draft law under discussion is, inevitably, destroying the institution of the family and conflicting with good habits. It is therefore unconstitutional and amazes that no other party supported the request for unconstitutionality submitted by the People's Association - Golden Dawn, although the Parliamentary Representative of the Union of Centres made reference to the relevant articles of the Constitution but not just him. There was also a Member, if I am not mistaken, of the New Democracy, who made exactly the same references. Nevertheless, at the critical time, they hesitated to support the opposition to anti-constitutionality presented by the Golden Dawn. The bill we are debating today introduces anarchist visas into the country's legal system. The transgender atoms and ignorance of other parties, the Independent Greeks, and even the River, for example, are exploited. On the pretext of defending individual rights, it promotes classical anarchist individualism, private separatism, as Mr Lappas has unreservedly put forward from a step, if I am not mistaken, on the part of the SYRIZA. The New Democracy, in its proposal for a law, is essentially in support of this awkward anarchism, which I would call discreetly a way or even a hint, denounced a Member, if I am not mistaken by Mr Vorides, saying of rightfulness. That's exactly what Mr. Voridis meant. However, he did not dare to refer to the specific issue of the introduction of anarchist ideologies into the country's legal system. The New Democracy ignorantly ignored, I would say, the Sacred Sacred Synod, which said that the bill torpedoes the sacred institution of the family, but also the heads of the twenty Monasteries of Mount Athos, who said that the law of God is being violated, and I say so, because the proposal for a law that it tabled, in essence only has a differential, age. Instead of fifteen, eighteen years. Another question I would ask is why the feminist movement in Greece is silent? In England, the emblematic form of Germen Greer, an academic feminist, said that " transgender women are not real women" and accused of transgendering. Is there a transfusion syndrome in Greece? I don't believe that. Instead, there is a normophobic syndrome that is triggered by aristist policies, to individuals that are transgender. An old saying about nature's law states. The law is almighty, but it can't change the man to a woman. That's exactly what's true of your own legislation. Even if it is voted in favour, this change cannot be made, it is rather natural. Golden Dawn, with many of them as well as Mr Dritsa, is fully synonymous with the view of the Continental Holy Synod of the Greek Church and the Ayoreite monks, but in any case with the ancient Greek ideals, virtue, honor, ethos and will fight until the final victory, the golden dawn of Hellenism! Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u410	We shall now give the floor to Mr Kumucako, a Member of the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u411	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, 'the rescue plan for the so-called left-wing reputation', 'anguish of the progressive footprint', these should be the title or title of the bill we are discussing today. ‘Anxiety of the progressive footprint’. She betrays and she wants to cover this bill. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, for over twenty days you have been under constant defeat. Losts in courts and in areas that you consider to be yours. It was defeated in the ecology with the total inability to deal with the pollution of Saronic. Lost on the so-called moral advantage of the Left that was lost between roulettes and isovites talks and will follow another defeat. The defeat of the draft budget. That is the fifteen new measures that will hit Greek citizens once again. With a reduction in incomes. With the disappearance of benefits. Slaughter tax. All these defeats are trying to circumvent today's legislation. You have chosen to promote supposedly social sensitivities, to come out of the sluggishness of your past defeat. To get out of your dead ends. That is why the importance of this and the methods. You're doing something even worse. You work on constant struggles and difficulties of a small minority, absolutely respected, in order to recover a piece of lost territory of the days and weeks that have passed. All of this with which you think you are projecting your social reflexes, all that you think you are regulating, already regulated - and you know it very well - from the case-law of sobriety without conflicts. Why, then, the study? Why the rush, and why the tension? I'll give you the answer. Because you sought to define a new field of conflict and polarization. Adopted by the Commission on 18 December. Because you believe that in the continuing write-down phase you are in, such a debate would allow you to regain part of the voters you are constantly losing. So you choose consciously - so you are born, so you are born, and so you continue to exist, through the conflict - a arrangement that creates new polarisations and new conflicts. In fact, you are doing so in such a way that you eventually fail to cover the transgender individuals, which you are supposed to be interested in covering. Because if you really wanted to cover them, a community whose rights we fully respect, you would see to it that you shield the draft law and give them legal certainty. Instead, instead of class, you bring dissatisfaction and for sure, uncertainties. I'm coming to the core, actually. The explicit exclusion of any previous medical examination related to the physical or mental health of the person deprives the draft law of any scientific basis. The explanatory statement does in fact refer to it. It recalls that in the vast majority of the Council of Europe where recognition is possible, previous psychodiagnosis is among the conditions for legal recognition of gender identity. You don't want that. Indeed, according to the EDPS, this arrangement is intended to protect the interests of stakeholders so that they are not mistakenly involved in a process of changing their identity, without, in fact, feeling or believing it. I would also like to raise another issue, which you are pretending is not serious, the lack of effective consultation. Who did you hear and who did you take into consideration? In the report on the impact of arrangements, it appears that no effective consultation has been carried out, since the views expressed by those who have participated in it, particularly those who have opposed the arrangements you bring, are not summarized. For what specific reasons were rejected? However, the obligation to consult has been laid down, precisely in order for the legislator of the opinions of society to be aware of, in order to respond to the expressed position of society. In this case, however, the Minister for Justice preferred to bring before the House a draft, which is rightly accused of being arbitrary and contemptuous of the opinions of a large proportion of citizens. The New Democracy, ladies and gentlemen of the government, has its own proposal. A proposal that is not a pretext. It is not opportune and is not disorientative. It is a proposal that harmonizes Articles 2, 4 and 21 of the Greek Constitution, namely respect for and protection of the value of man, equality in the face of law, the fact that all Greeks and Greek women have equal rights and obligations while, as I said, respects Article 21, which places family, marriage, maternity and childhood under the protection of the state. Five points have been made in our proposal. Medical opinion, court ruling on two requests from the person concerned, so that there may be legal certainty only if the person is an adult only once. It can't change sex twice and three times in a man's life. The New Democracy proposal goes hand in hand with international reality. He respects the choice of the face. It shall ensure the conscientious nature of the will of the person concerned. Confidentiality shall be guaranteed, and shall also take into account any impact on third persons directly associated with the applicant. Whatever arrangements we will make when time comes, we will do it after exhausting consultation that we will respect not pretextically. And of course, in this process, we will listen carefully to the views of the Church. I do not believe that anyone in this Chamber refuses the Church to have opinions. And they must be heard together with all others but also with their gravity. To conclude, we, gentlemen of the government, such as our firm political act and philosophy, are facing serious issues. That is why we refuse to vote on the legislation you are bringing and that is why we are tabling one of our own, which ensures all the provisions of the Constitution, as I have said - human rights and the institution of the family - which is really and essentially progressive and not pretext. Because we don't have any dead ends from which to get out. This is your agony and will continue to exist until the end, until the elections, until the defeat, until the fall of this government.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u412	Mrs. Thleritis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u413	Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a draft law, which is an important stage in the long run for the institutional recognition of human rights in our country, but at the same time it gives the Government's signal to strengthen the rule of law, as has been done with a number of legislation, such as the extension of the cohabitation pact to homosexual couples, etc. I would like, before I begin, to refer to the letter sent to Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras on 9 June 2017 by the Intergovernment Support Association, on the basis of public consultation - mentioned earlier - that there was no public consultation - on the draft gender identity law and the corresponding interview of the Prime Minister. So the President of the Intergovernmental Marina Galanou Support Association, among others, says: "Actually, Prime Minister, he could only agree with you any democratic citizen that the draft law on the legal recognition of gender, comes very late. It is perhaps the leading claim of our community, as the absence of specific legislation regulating the recognition of gender without preconditions, which according to decisions by international and European organisations are a type of torture, while violating the private and family life of individuals, is the main cause of the intolerance of harassment, discrimination and violence faced by our community." Because, ladies and gentlemen, intolerance, violence, discrimination and violations of fundamental human rights are the reality experienced by the members of this community and by those of us who did not know it, they had the opportunity to hear it and see it at the hearing of the bodies, which were truly revealing. It was revealing, for the state to take measures to protect these fundamental rights and freedoms of trans people, but also for the legal recognition and safeguarding of gender identity, which is an essential condition for facilitating their everyday life. Because it is true that, without such recognition, trans people are more vulnerable and more exposed to violence and discrimination in every area of their lives, from school to student life, to job search, to day-to-day transactions with public and private individuals. That is why the draft law we are debating today is the state's first attempt to bridge this gap and the correlation between the sex of the trans people and what is stated as official in their public documents and to change, at last, what trans people are experiencing, who are also intimidated, abused, stigmatized, marginalized and have the least life expectancy, as we know from research and publications in Greece. Another good thing is that this debate on the gender identity has finally come to the Greek Parliament, not because we need a left footprint, as mentioned before, but because for us it is very essential and the strengthening of the rule of law is a priority. And we believe that for every democratic man, strengthening the rule of law should be a priority. At last, therefore, this debate on human rights has been opened and other parties will be placed in the House, where they will vote in favour of this bill. Of course the New Democracy and the Centro Association, as we can see, will not vote or at least a number of them will, as they have said. But you will allow me to refer to the sad attitude of the JRC, which seems to reject the liberating ideas of socialism and social equality, by choosing to remain faithful to conservative and reactionary - you will allow me - the tradition of homophobia. It is indeed disappointing for a party fighting for social liberation. Because individuals and bodies which are hostile to all kinds of perfection are relying on hypocritical, misanthropic and, above all, completely wrong approaches. Because the state has an obligation to see the unstable lives, to shield the rights of people on the margin. Of course, the state cannot turn the face to what is considered private life and not recognize it. After all, my dear colleague of the Officerial Opposition, as feminism and feminist movement have taught us, the staff are political and the feminist organizations have stressed this. That is why the institutional areas promoted by the government are not subject to shorter political cost theories. On the other hand, we must remember that the debate was not only open because the current government was ideology or made a specific ideological and political choice. Mostly opened up, because it was the result of a long, persistent and systematic work of the fights of the anti-sexist and anti-racist movement. Just the government had eyes and ears open to hear and enrich its reflection and, of course, to convince and convince. As the draftsman of the bill said, Annetta Kavadia, the bill gave a step and a public word to these communities, and of course the Minister proceeded with legislative improvements. But what, for me, is the most important thing in this bill, is precisely what the Acoustic Antipolitics, namely, that trans people are now equipped with the possibility of changing documents without requiring medical or psychiatric advice or any surgery - sterilisation. Medical acts, however, have not only been judged to violate the private and family lives of individuals - Article 8 of the Europe of Rights Convention - but at the same time they are considered to be a kind of torture of inhuman and degrading treatment - Article 3 of that convention. So that's how it's finally regulated by law...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u414	Nobody suggested these.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u415	You're wrong. The non-medical examination is exactly what this bill stipulates from what you will have seen.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u416	Is the opinion an operation?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u417	You're welcome. Finish, Mrs. Theleritis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u418	For God's sake! I'll be done. Do not, then, in any case - that was a consistent demand of movements, as you say - the identity of gender under any medical conditions. I will conclude with the various misguided comments which have been made and concerns whether the legislative safeguarding of these people's rights is an irreparable blow to the foundations of our society, or whether it is a danger that the unbaptised Mount Athos will be perpetuated or that sport will be affected. I would therefore like to refer to Article 5, which concerns the consequences of the recognition of gender, where it is stated that after the correction, the obligations and responsibilities of the person continue to accompany the person before the correction. Finally, I would like to propose to Part II that there be a recommendation from the National Training, Monitoring and Evaluation Mechanism for Action Plans on Children's Rights, to be added to the institutions and the General Secretariat of Gender Equality, because I believe, Minister, that it is crucial that the gender dimension be integrated into policies for children and especially when it comes to designing national action plans on children's rights. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill does not really constitute an ideal one, but it is a serious priority for this government in its efforts to safeguard fundamental rights and the freedom of corresponding people, who today have no voice and are on the margin. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u419	The next speaker is Mr Dimitrios Gassis. Here you go, Mr. Gaki, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u420	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are discussing today and tomorrow does not belong to what we are used to being a current policy. It is not about economic development, it is not about the standard of living of citizens, it is not about the working relationships and the everyday life of many. It has, however, caused a number of reactions. These reactions allow me to categorise them briefly. At one end there are the most or less irrational reactions, which refuse to recognize the neutrality and difference, and on the other the objections to the importance of the bill, because this is not about the main problem that concerns the Greek society, which is primarily economic, that is, the struggle for all to survive, and that is a truth. For our own government, however, the left-wing government, which is radical, because it has the power to look forward and to envision a better future for everyone and democratic, because it respects the person, desires and needs, human rights cannot be applied on a case-by-case basis. They're universal and especially. 'The genuine will of the person himself is the decisive criterion in view of the right of personality', the National Bioethics Commission is decided and in this spirit we support this draft law. I wanted, on this occasion, to submit my personal speech and opinion, because an objection, a dispute or a dispute, a reservation I had on the bill, has been raised as a cause for me to be a person who will not vote on the bill. Looks like the wrong guy's targeted. My public intervention concerns the substance of the parliamentary procedure, not the press. Our aim is to elect legislation. With our regulations - and that is why I want them to be clear, clear and explicit - we want to give solutions rather than create more problems than what we are trying to resolve, in a normal way, overcoming any nuisances and doubts and issues that modern society has already incorporated into its day-to-day good practice, at the same time highlighting the institutional function of Parliament that brings benefits to society. As far as the bill is concerned, the social perception of trans people is either nonexistent or wrong. It is, above all, a bill which runs social conservatism and social anachronism. My position is, and so it has emerged that it makes no sense in this redefinition process to establish a new sex process through psychiatricism. It is our basic position that these people are not ill, and from this point of view medical science has no place in this process. But the reduction in the age limit from which one can change his gender, from the age of seventeen to the age of 15, has necessarily determined and demanded and put in the game the existence of a group of scientists, as we call it, a multidisciplinary committee which replaced the previous medical board that existed in law, with today's amendment and with a joint decision of the Ministers for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights and Health for two years can be established, which consists of a pediatrician, a pediatrician, an endocrinologist, a pedophile, a psychologist, a social worker and a pediatrician specialising in this subject. In this respect, we are intervening today and we are ensuring the minimum, I would say, the minimum of the aptitude process of gender change and of the minor children between 15 and 17 years old. I would be happy if this process were not there. I would be happy, in other words, to remain in the initial commitment of seventeen years old and over. In this direction of defending human rights, particularly for the most vulnerable in need, the bill provides for the establishment of an additional national mechanism for the preparation, monitoring and evaluation of child rights action plans. The new mechanism seeks to coordinate those involved in the system and provide work in this area. It is an international commitment of our country. The need and importance we all recognise in the recent refugee crisis, seeing unaccompanied minors exposed to all kinds of dangers. In our islands, especially where the refugee flows have been accepted, we have all recognised how necessary a coordination framework is and hopefully will be a useful tool to better deal with any problems and a shield of protection for minors against violence and exploitation, abuse and abandonment. Ladies and gentlemen, today with the bill, we are opening a window to the dark house that we have socially enclosed these groups of our fellow citizens. They were people without identification. It was under another name and under another capacity. Today comes the bill, this thing to identify it. The sun that's going into the house will dismantle the maintenance mold. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u421	Thank you. The next speaker is Mr Jason Fotillas from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u422	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that society is changing and changing quickly. Life itself, conditions change. We politicians must also listen to the real needs of society. In other words, we must not be short-sighted, but see farther and watch the changes, even if in a large part of society it seems strange or difficult to understand them. In order to understand and the citizens who are listening to us, it must be understood who this bill is about or rather who should be about and what changes will eventually be made. Let us say, firstly, that unlike the original propaganda of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, the change of gender identity is not unprecedented in our legal system. It has been institutionalized since the 1970s and also through case law, i.e. judiciary decisions. This well-established case law tells us that these applications in court are always accepted, since they are accompanied by documents certifying that the person concerned has carried out surgery. The bill is therefore not about those who have had surgery, but about that category of fellow citizens who have gender discomfort and do not want to engage. There is, indeed, this category and therefore there is the need to protect it, which, as I pointed out at the outset, from the need to see what really happens in our society and regulate it. This is progress, after all. The opposite is maintenance. It is even more important when it comes to small or very small groups, minorities, which in fact have a greater need to protect against large majorities, which can somehow impose their opinions. But this need for our fellow citizens must be confirmed by medical science. Such an application should therefore be accompanied by a medical certificate stating that this is a conscious choice of the person concerned and that the need for this provision is therefore in place. To make this possible by means of the simple declaration of will of the interested parties, as provided for in this bill, it will enable some to change their gender identity according to their beliefs, i.e. for other reasons, for example marriages, adoptions and other issues that may arise. In other words, the bill, instead of solving the problem, will create a number of other problems. And that, of course, because this bill is made in the foot, and it was not done with a view to the real need to protect these people, but by the need to confirm SYRIZA. There is also a deliberate misinterpretation of the relevant judgment of the Court of Human Rights. The court, Minister, urges the creation of a framework that is compatible with transgenders in order to harmonise their reality with their prerogatives. At the same time, however, it does not say anywhere that the State is not allowed to regulate the ways in which this is to be done, i.e. with relevant medical certificates. In England, for example, a country that has regulated the relevant issues since decades, the process requires a certificate from a public hospital and an additional secondary committee. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy has not run away, such as Mr Kammenos, who has preferred to escape in Brazil. So he's gonna vote for this bill with the letter vote he has a right to? Let's see. He's obviously trying to save the straight ones. But what does Mr. Kammenos have to do with it? The last citizen is now aware of what Mr Kammenos represents. It is that kind of politician, who is willing to sell not principles and values but his mother or rather to be precise to keep his children in power. That is why there is a clear question. And I'm explaining. In our country's city, the principle of declared is valid. What does that mean? Not that there is a break between the co-pilots. We have made that clear. They will not do such a thing while it helps them to remain in power. The principle of state ment means that a bill to introduce and reach the relevant committees should have the majority. It is not possible for the bills to be brought by minority and SYRIZA to be minority at the moment. The majority is SYRIZA - ANEL government and together the bills must be brought together. That is what our Constitution provides for. Otherwise, we, too, could take it to the committees. Can we? We can't unfortunately. But the New Democracy is here. It has tabled a concrete proposal, which is sensible and sensitive to the real need. It recognises the need to modernise the human rights protection framework and in the area of the procedure for the correction of the registered gender, by those who want it and need it. I will end with a comment, on the basis of the article written by Mr Tsakalots yesterday in 'Kathimerini'. We're moving the finger for liberalism and dignity. Who's talking about dignity now? Mr Tsakalotos, when he did not have the emoluments to resign, as he had publicly committed himself when he voted for the reduction of duty, thereby abolishing every trace of his own personal dignity. It's too much for Mr. Tsakalots to talk to us about dignity! Other subjects of liberalism and dignity not in the New Democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u423	Mrs Aphrodite Stavoulis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u424	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, I avoid entering the debate on who has the right to speak in this House about dignity. I just remind you, without being a legal person, of the few things I have understood from the Constitution and the legislation that bills are recommended by the government ministers, the executive is being proposed, the majority pass - so we will be here tomorrow and see - and from there anyone who thinks that the government has lost the declared, makes a motion of censure. Or he doesn't do anything. It's just things. That's what the Constitution says. At least that's how I understand. For the bill now. It would be unnecessary to repeat the need for this bill, which allows for a change of registered sex, namely, a change of documents, to people for whom the personal way they experience their gender, does not agree with the gender attributed to them at birth. This usually results in evidence of non-conformity with their documents, which leads to multiple problems in their daily lives. So changing the registered sex, therefore, and the documents with a judicial decision without prescribing a severe and amputational surgery - as expected from 1976 onwards - is an important factor in the participation of these fellow people in society, for which I do not think that a psychiatric assessment would raise objections. No objections should be raised as an overall position, nor should the Critical Opposition. It, however, brings its own proposal for a law to plenary - and before months of consultation and four committee meetings, reminding me of the proverb: 'when the egg comes to me, I am looking for nests' - in which a sadist brain that can no longer impose mutilation - not sterilisation, which can be a simple and painless intervention, which some choose for some reasons - imposes the most obstacles between the parties concerned and the judicial crisis. Starting with the application, which must have attested the authenticity of the signature. So much prejudice for the credibility of these people! And then: In filing an application to the competent court for the correction of the registered sex, is the statement of the requested person - this sentence on a physician of the next article is used three, four times - on the fact that the statement of the person requiring the correction is conscious, that the person has received all the necessary information about the consequences of accepting his or her declaration - will he give an examination? - and that the correction does not give rise to negative consequences for the applicant's minors if any. If she's underage, will she wait for them to be grown up? What else are you going to ask for? Tax and insurance information, driving licence and energy status certificate of the applicant's residence? In the second debate before a competent court, the applicant is required to provide a certificate from the doctor of the next article certifying that at the time he held the two discussions - which are four months - he attended the applicant and the conditions are still fulfilled. I have a question. He watched him in a free environment or will there be incarceration, so that we can be more confident? The person responsible is the Special Physician of Sexual Disorders of the Center for Psychotherapies of a specific hospital. I have nothing with my colleagues. They may do an excellent job in accordance with the latest science perceptions, but only the title makes the applicant and us creeping around. That is why the proposal for a law stipulates that this centre will be renamed to a Special Physical Hospital. We understand the spirit of these proposals. I do not doubt that, despite the title of this centre, colleagues may do an excellent job in line with the latest findings of science, but it is obvious that the inspiration of the text, this suffocating psychiatricism and bureaucraticisation of the process, should be done only once. The fact that in the draft legislation under examination the process is reversible is another safety test for all but also for the vulnerable group of teenagers, for which so much has been heard. I will simply say that at the age of children who are making an identity, they can work properly, professionally, on a contract of employment, and they can, of course, get married - again on the basis of the authority of the juveniles - they cannot determine themselves and start a procedure which has little chance of being completed before they are actually grown up for reasons independent of the intentions of the legislator, for reasons of regulations with which we know our judges are working. The Interdisciplinary Committee set up under this draft law to deliver an opinion is also an effective safety net. But, Minister, while we vote for the voluntary transfer of what is needed, do not impose a mandatory prison transfer on any remarkable woman who wants to keep a worthwhile job. Please change the wording in the legal improvement and, where you say "a psychiatrist, a child psychiatrist, an endocrinologist" make it "one scientist/scientist of the following specialties:".
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u425	Of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u426	Thank you very much, especially in this Chamber, for respecting all the sexes. I consider the response of the Color Youth community - LGBTQ Youth in a text of the Paedophobic Society for the scientific support of as early as possible for the transfer and the negative role, which unfortunately sometimes can play transfusion stereotypes, rather than the psychiatric community. I put it in the Minutes because there is no time to expand. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Aphroditis Stuboulis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I will only add a few words about the amendment on the implementation of the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights. I would like to say that my patriotism says that the dowry of this country must be her rank as a country that respects human rights in all their appearances. Based on this positive picture, he finds allies and international support, and this positive picture is what he should not lose. No one's security is threatened by respect for the rights of Greek citizens and every resident in the country. On the contrary, the safety of everyone is shielded by the sense of freedom and respect for all. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u427	Before giving the floor to the next speaker, who will be the last for today's sitting, let me make two announcements. The Ministers for Economy and Development, Home Affairs, Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Work, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Foreign Affairs, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Economic, Health, Administrative Reconstruction, Culture and Sport, Infrastructure and Transport, Migration Policy, Maritime and Island Policy, Rural Development and Food and Tourism, Deputy Ministers of Home Affairs and Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, as well as the Deputy Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, have tabled a draft law on 9-10-2017: “Act of Outdoor Commercial Activities, Modernisation of Chamber Legislation and other provisions”. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. I also have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights has forwarded to Parliament, in accordance with Article 86 of the Constitution and Law 3126/2003 "Prime Responsibility of Ministers", as in force, on 25-9-2017, a criminal case for ministers of various governments who signed Law No 3845/2010, 4046/2012, 4060/2012, 4111/2013. We are giving Mr Christo Manda the floor from SYRIZA, which, as we have said, is the last speaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u428	Ladies and gentlemen, the transgenders have so far been invisible. They're coming to visibility. We are doing the self-evident thing and it is a real honour for the government, which brings this law to the Greek Parliament and we have been discussing these steps for many hours. The MPs and MPs of the Greek Parliament are not invisible and much more they cannot hide. Ladies and gentlemen, we will be dealing with it, whether we like it or not, not in general, with concepts and ideologies, but with human needs and human rights, and we will be judged on that. In no case can we hide any political power, no one and no one separate from us in the Greek Parliament, from allegedly diversions, from the turn by legislative proposal or from claims that everything is provided and there are no needs which are not visible and which are not complete. Let me make two comments on issues that have entered the public debate either from the media or much more than the hierarchy. I consider it vulgar, cynical and insulting to the public debate and to this debate to be headlines of the 'Gender Identity SYRIZA' type. I consider it vulgar and cynical first of all against these people. Tell us what you want. Make any criticism and warfare you want. But do not use - and I think this is very crucial for political controversy and for public dialogue in our country - these supposedly intelligent headlines on the back of people and families who have suffered. I think it's vulgar, it's an insult, and that's why I'm saying it, I'm given the opportunity to say it from the Step of the House. Secondly, it is truly incomprehensible to me from the historical route if you want, not of the hierarchy, but of the Church Corps in this country, to capture phrases in the announcement of the hierarchy saying that this bill, among other things, destroys people. I really cannot put in mind people who are proclaiming, as Christian religion says, love, tolerance and response, saying that an initiative that meets human needs that adds to human rights is destroying people. I would, in fact, like to point this out in the most intense way, when everyone throughout the world, who really care about the substance of the functioning of democracy, thinks that demobilisation and the free movement of these small minorities, are quite similar to what, at least in theory, Christian religion says. It is precisely from this expression in the public debate that I doubtless believe that the issue of discrimination - at last - of the roles of the Church and of the State not only can we not avoid it, but I would say that we must boldly deal with it for both sides, because this will enable - and this debate is ahead - to clarify these roles and put things in place. Otherwise we will always have a situation which I think does not help democracy in our country. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer to the short time I have had in these reservations and objections of the psychiatric community in the process of expressing public communications, because I think I can contribute to a dialogue which will continue and which is important for the next day. I would like to say, therefore, that I think there are real concerns that are expressed and real problems. I'll just mention two of them. I have worked with people who have had similar problems or have made a request for gender change and we really need to be very careful about it. This is neither psychiatristism nor ignorance of needs and will. I mean, sometimes this request can be presented because of a process of psychopathological, psychopathological, first psychotic, or in the case of people of the authentic spectrum again it can be presented as a request on the part of a person who is in this spectrum but is consistent with the underlying psychopathology. That is why, because they appear either in teenage age or in younger adult life, I think that safeguarding through the interdisciplinary committee is extremely important. This composition that can be made, as the legislative improvement provides, by means of a joint ministerial decision of the Ministries of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights and Health, I believe that it ensures to a large extent, once those who make up this House are qualified, because it is indeed a complex issue, a difficult issue. In these cases, I think that it ensures to a very large extent that we can see whether situations are raised as a request, but that underneath is subject to psychopathy or real will that I think there is no second opinion, even from other aspects, that there we can move to the legal guarantee of gender identity change. I therefore think that this should be taken into account. I think the intention of the Ministry of Justice, which brings this bill, is not to ignore these kinds of aspects. The scientific community as a whole, and with the broadness of the legislative improvement, I think it can really contribute, to being as clear as possible on a multifactorial subject, such as the formation of a gender identity, no doubt, multifactoral, complex thing. I therefore think that this type of approach can contribute. I think that the community too is willing to contribute, on the basis of this legislative improvement that we have done. Excuse me for the time I used, but I think I had to share these thoughts with the Greek Parliament, because I think it is important to keep them in mind. I want to say one last thing. These people and these families are having trouble. I'm saying a lot of mild expression. Some of them have hurt too much. That is why, apart from the needs arising from the process of gender change, they have a need - I would say that in a broader sense - for social support throughout this process. And if they choose other changes in the characteristics of the sex, that's where they need support. We must have this in mind, because it is not only enough to deal with the request from a multidisciplinary group, there is a continuity and that the state must take care of it. I think this is a historic moment for the Greek Parliament. It is an honor that the government has brought this important part of this small social minority, but it can show both the wealth of our democracy and our commitment to the democratic functioning of this society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u429	Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-09-S1-commons.u430	With the consent of the House at 23.58' the meeting is closed for tomorrow, Tuesday, October 10, 2017, and 9.00' on the subject of the House's work: legislative work, continuation of discussion and vote of the draft law of the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights: "Legal recognition of gender identity - National Mechanism for the Training, Monitoring and Evaluation of Action Plans for the Rights of the Child and other provisions".
