ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent question issue of Monday 12 June 2017. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Under number 941/6-2017, a topical question by MP II of the New Democracy, Mr Spyridonos - Adonidos Georgiadis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "The deterioration of Classical Education is taking place in Greece". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Mr. Andreas Loverdus, Member of the Council of Ministers of Foreign Affairs, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Human Rights, asked the Minister of Justice, the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights about the conspiracy of children. 3. The current question by No 923/1-6/2017 of the Member of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Pappas to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on "fulfilment of the Tomb of the Nation". 4. The Question No 919/31-5-2017 by the Member of Parliament of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Giokas to the Ministers for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights and Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the condemnation of disciples of the 1st High School of Rethymnon to "social work", due to their participation in student mobilisations. 5. The question by No 929/2-6-2017 of the Member of Parliament, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, about the theft of electricity. 6. The question raised by Mr Georgios Amyras at number 931/2-6-2017, concerning the 'SIEMENS' case. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Under number 942-6-2017, a topical question by MP Magnesia of New Democracy, Christou Boukorou, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The situation in the Second Pathological Clinic Volos". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Question No 943/6-6-2017 by MP Larissa of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Konstantinos Bargiotas to the Minister of Health, on 'Is there finally a national and regional strategy for the development of medical tourism'? 3. The question by number 924/1-6/2017 of MP II Athens of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Helen Zaroulia to the Minister of Finance regarding the appointment of a judge to the administration of the Supreme Court. 4. The question by No 948/6-2017 of the Greek Communist Party MEP, Athanasios Vardalis, about the Greek Vehicle Industry "ELVO ABE". 5. Under number 947-6-2017, a topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "to reopen the Integrated Personal Management System for Personnel Management and B/Training (OPSYD) for those who did not have the time to do so". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Rodopi of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Ahmet Ilhan to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs about the preservation of the 'dyspherics' category of secondary school units of Sapphire and Iasmos Rodopi. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS Before we begin the debate on the topical and urgent questions, which is three for today, I am aware that the fourth question under number 925/1-6/2017 of the first cycle of the Evian MP of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr.Nikolaos Michou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "The installation of 209 new wind turbines in southern Karyesia threatens biodiversity and economy", will not be debated as a result of an impediment by the relevant Minister and will be redefined for discussion. Also, the first question under number 936-6-2017, first question by the Member of the Dodecanese coalition of the Radical Left, Elias Kamaterou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on "Spatial Travel Tourism" will not be discussed due to the absence of the Minister responsible abroad. It's Mr. Stathakis, who's missing in Kazakhstan. The same applies to the second, with number 940/6-2017, a top-stage question by MP Florina of New Democracy Mr.Ioannis Antoniadis, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "The significant delays in the relocation of the settlement of Anthrais N. Florinas puts the life of its residents at risk". As you have heard, there is a letter from the Secretary of Government, Mr Michael Kalogerou. So we begin with our second question, number 971/6-2017, on the need for a second-round question by the Independent MEP, Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras, on the need to integrate into the objectives of reducing the problematic debts of small business. Mr. Papadimitriou is here and he'll answer. Mr. Carras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President, but above all thank the Minister for his presence. Nearly two months ago, I submitted a request for documents to be lodged with the Finance and Finance Ministers and requested the information contained in the 2015 Finance Facility Convention in relation to the objectives of reducing the problem loans. Unfortunately, so far I have not received any response. Oddly from the Ministry of Economy I have received a document from two lines that does not have any competence. It surprises me, but I'm not going to comment on it now. From the Ministry of Finance, no answer was forthcoming, nor did I have the honour to receive. After that, I noticed that there was a series of publications, Mr President, which referred to the fact that a series of large-scale business loan arrangements existed and the smaller loans were paid out. I have therefore sought evidence from which to see how the situation is eradicated. Because it is important and to deal with the problematic loans of small businesses, because these small businesses are a part of the economy and especially with the current Greek economy, where there is complete deindustrialisation and disinvestment, it is necessary to have small businesses. I have therefore seen that there is no provision for quantifying the forecasts available in relation to the annual quarterly or six-monthly reduction in problem loans, so that we know what goes on to be deleted into small enterprises and what goes on to the large ones. And it is worth noting, Mr President, for this reason: the Greek State has committed itself to the banks, essentially those which they will write off, because it is offset by the income tax, the so-called deferred tax obligation, the bank losses forecasts. I think, therefore, that this issue should also be addressed to the Minister if the government takes into account that many applications from small businesses are not met by the banks, while large companies are being met with huge write-offs - I do not want to mention in particular - and if the government intends to take such measures, because, as I said, Mr President, it is possible because it outweighs the losses of banks with deferred tax. The state is therefore one of the three pillars that will regulate these issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u3	The Minister for Economy and Development, Mr Papadimitriou, has the floor. Minister, you have the floor in relative comfort too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u4	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[At this point, the Minister of the Municipality of Papadimitriou presents for the minutes the abovementioned letter, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Mr Karras, on your first question, I would like to inform you that in trying to reduce the problem of red loans, in the light of the objectives set by the credit institutions, the latter have given priority to the major debtors, as you mentioned, without, however, excluding the treatment of loans with smaller amounts of debt. This prioritisation of large loans and debts to small ones is not unfair, as it is speeding up both the achievement of the objectives of banking institutions and, above all, the rescue of large companies with many jobs. It should be recalled at this point that credit institutions have separate sections for large and separate small debtors and are therefore engaged in the processing of debts and smaller debtors. Therefore, the concern expressed in your specific question is to some extent, I think, excessive. It is true, however, that the examination of a request for regulation by a small debtor is subject to disproportionate administrative costs for the bank and credit institutions. They are therefore discouraged from the immediate examination of such requests. Of course they want to solve the problems of large red loans first. However, limiting the administrative costs of restructuring the business loans of small debtors, we consider it to be the solution, which will speed up the examination of the requests of the small debtors. As far as your second question concerns the measures taken or intended to be taken is concerned, I would like to inform you: firstly, in the direction of limiting administrative costs for restructuring business loans, the newly adopted law on out-of-court settlement of corporate debts is being initiated, which is intended mainly to protect small and medium-sized debtors. Secondly, the electronic platform, which this law provides and will be activated in August, is expected to minimise the administrative costs of examining even the smallest companies. Third, the above-mentioned costs, which are suspensive, are expected to be further reduced by the activity of the non-performing loans management companies due to the experience in the restructuring of the loans. Finally, I would like to inform you that we have sent your question to the Bank of Greece for further, which replied under Protocol No 569/6-2017, which I submit in the Minutes. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u5	Mr. Carras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u6	Mr President, I have listened carefully to the Minister's reply. I must point out, of course, above all, that, even if the extrajudicial mechanism was voted on, even if it is recognised by the government that it is high administrative costs for the regulation of small debts, I would say that, since all the mechanisms of either commercial or civil insolvency depend on the consent of the creditor - a bank - you understand, Mr Minister, that the bank has a heavy burden on it, in the sense that, if it wants or considers that it needs to regulate the largest loans and the rest that is left for small businesses, then small businesses will now find themselves outside, for the reason that the banks will not be able to go beyond the targets. My other remark in your reply is as follows: the administrative costs you have mentioned are those of banks, Minister. I cannot understand that the banks are operating in this crisis period in relation to what they will do to regulate loans. Red loans - I will repeat and I will be persistent - have actually been taken over by the Greek state. This has to be recognised, because with all three recapitalisations, the Greek taxpayer contributed huge amounts, which are uncertain whether they are recovered, but also with your own legislative proposal, Minister, a month ago, which you converted the five-year deferred tax into a 20-year period, you understand that in the next twenty years the state will pay. However, the small debtor, who has to survive - and I am certainly not talking about housing, is other competence or consumer responsibility - and who has to pay, is not relieved in this way, regardless of the fact that the banks may claim that he has been taken care of. I will call on you: Do you know what he says to us, Minister, the last quarter's report on the operational objectives of non-performing exposures? You know that better than I will not teach you, I will simply remind you: that small and medium-sized enterprises are at 63% in lack of regulation, not on other grounds, but because the banks are being delayed. I would therefore like to mention why this has been, and I shall end, Mr President, on the occasion of my question and of the publication. I'll testify. Title: ‘The Financial Stability Fund, banks and second-class indigenouss’. Here too there are great complaints I did not wish to make about the text of my question or my first speech on the subject, but the complaints made are as follows: [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Excuse me, Mr President. Loanings, says, tired or magically disappear - and this says a valid economic page, which I shall present, Mr President, I do not want to make a reference to what is - or are deleted with unprecedented courage and rare ingenuity. I can't imagine the neighborhood pavilion. As the Minister said, the great ones are being deleted. I therefore ask the government to take the necessary steps to ensure that there is quantification, because we are all making a mistake. What's our fault? We are salvaging - and we are doing well - large businesses invoking a large number of workers. But if we take into account the mass, Mr President, of the small ones, the number that we will not save them is multiple. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how the House operates, thirty-five students and students and two educational attendants from the 2nd Municipal School of the nice Drapetsonas. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Drizza, you are in honor of this. Minister, by way of derogation from the Rules of Procedure - if you would like, you will answer, because I am not legitimate - there was also a post on Sunday's front page in the newspaper 'TOFON', which said that the Attica Bank sold 1,300, 000 million foreign funds against 10,000, 000, that is to say, 8% of value. I don't know if the post responds to reality. It seems to me that there has been no reaction from the government. If you so wish, please inform Parliament. You don't have to, because I don't have to ask a question. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr President. I just wanted to say to Mr Carras that I do not know these complaints. I would like to know them, investigate them, and I would also like to say that we may have to wait to see how the extrajudicial mechanism works. We are convinced that we will have the solutions you are promoting, Mr President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u9	We proceed to the third with number 934/2-6-2017, a top-level question from the MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos, to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the performance of the programme of granting residence permits to citizens of third countries, through the purchase of real estate in our country or investments worth more than 250,000 euros (Golden Visa Greece). That's an interesting question. Mr. Constantinople has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. I see the Minister of Development, and I would just like to say this: Minister, the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMAR has tabled a topical question on development, which you have not yet identified and which has been passed in the fifth month. The second is that we should all know that the SYRIZA - ANEL Government and the majority Members have passed a law in the Greek Parliament to buy red housing and business loans on the secondary market in funds. It's not something that's hidden. They have voted for it and it is throughout Europe the only country that voted to sell red loans, business and housing on the secondary market. So don't make any impression. It's a dignified law already. We are, however, going to this particular issue, which I think is of great interest. You will allow me to tell you, because people are listening to us, what the 'Golden Visa Greece' programme is. It was established by the Code of Migration and Social Integration, which provides for the possibility of a five-year residence permit with a right to renewal to citizens of third countries and members of their families who buy real estate in Greece or investments worth over 250,000 euros. This was in 2013, changed in 2014. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] As time passes, today where are we and what has been done in other countries? On the basis of the information provided by Enterprise Greece - not myself - you will allow me to tell you that there have been so far a thousand, six hundred and eighty-four permits for real estate investors. Of these, about six hundred and seven hundred were in the first year and the rest of the thousands over the next three years. It's about 400 million. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Because it is interesting, Minister, and you will have seen it too, let me mention what the origin of these people is. China is the first of us. The second is Russia. Third is Egypt. Fourth is Turkey, followed by Lebanon, Ukraine, Iraq, Syria, Jordan and Saudi Arabia. At the same time, in two other countries that have exactly the same programme, in Cyprus and Portugal, in Cyprus, it appears that the EUR 4 billion and in Portugal have been issued with six thousand licences and have reached 1.3 billion. If I may, which I am sure the Minister knows, I would like to say that in Cyprus at least EUR 2 million must have been spent. And here...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u11	You mean instead of 250,000 euros.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u12	Yes, instead of 250,000 euros. In Portugal it is EUR 500,000 and has reached EUR 1.3 billion. Minister, you are spending the third year of your administration and we need to see what has happened. There will certainly be mistakes and omissions in the institutional framework. Should we change them? Mr Muzalas, who was previously responsible, said a year ago to change the amount and all, but the government is united. We need to see how we can get to know this in other countries. The private sector could also play a particular role here, without the state being burdened. We also need to see what your proposals and policies are so that we can bring funds, which are funds from abroad, which will support the country's development, which I believe we all want for the country. Think of a small country taking 4 billion, Portugal taking 1.3 billion and Greece staying at 400 million, which I think is of similar beauty and could come here.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u13	The rest in your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u14	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u15	New Democracy MP Simos Kedicoglou asks for permission from a short-day absence abroad from 18-6-2017 to 25-6-2017. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u16	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Minister, you have the floor for comfort too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Constantinople, the question is really interesting. The issue is topical, we are also concerned about it and we are at a time when through a public consultation we are looking for ways to improve the performance of the programme. But I'm afraid you don't have a good picture. You say that the first thousand permits were given in the first year and then six hundred and then the rest.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u18	The evidence...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u19	Wait a minute. Let me tell you the evidence first. Twenty licences were issued in 2013. In 2014 we reached four hundred and fifty-five permits. In 2015 we reached ninety-eight licenses and in 2016 we received a thousand fifty-five permits. For 2017 we are currently in the thousand six hundred and eighty-four licenses. This is a course upward, as you can see. Efficiency continuously improves and will continue to do so and will accelerate in the coming years. In comparison with other countries, from official figures, in Greece, a thousand six hundred and eighty-four permits have been issued in Cyprus, a thousand seven hundred fifty in Malta, a hundred and twenty-one, in Portugal, five thousand, in Spain, two thousand, in Lithuania seven thousand forty-one. That's officially recent evidence. This shows an image which demonstrates that our performance - and we will say about the peculiarities - is absolutely comparable to the other countries. The amounts you refer to are not officially and are not confirmed. For example, you estimate as an average of two hundred and fifty thousand, the thousand six hundred and eighty-four permits. But that's not the way it is. The picture we have from the market and the assessment we have is that the programme has given Greece around EUR 1 billion, not EUR 400 million. That is because, with the same estimates, we are talking about the numbers of other countries. What are the differences? Because we keep talking about Cyprus, that's where we have a difference. It's not just a residence permit. This is a passport price of EUR 2 million. We're on your residence permit. We haven't talked about it, and we haven't been through the issue and passport. Now, Lithuania has peculiarities. It concerns residence permits only to Russians and the reasons are obvious. And Portugal, which has started the programme two years earlier than us, has mainly Chinese. It's Macau, former Portuguese colony. This is where the vast majority of those who have been allowed to stay in Portugal through the programme. Now, I repeat that we have entered a public consultation. We are looking for ways of improving, because they always exist, in two directions. One direction is to extend the rules for licences to other economic activities and not just to the property market. We will see exactly what this enlargement will be. Secondly, we are looking for technical and practical ways to solve a problem linked to delays due to the receipt of biometric data. We are obliged to receive biometric data on our residence cards. This means that the proposed buyer should come to the country twice. That creates problems. We're looking for a way to simplify it. The feeling on the market, however, is that the programme is competitive and is working well. There is room for improvement, which we are looking for, and which is constantly improving its performance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u20	Here, Mr. Constantinople, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u21	Minister, in 2013 would certainly be twenty-nine applications, because as you can see it was voted on in July, August, and they wanted to get some permits. All this is expected.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u22	You said...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u23	The evidence, however, is specific. You're talking about Portugal having Chinese. And to us here in Greece the Chinese first are, based on the information you, the Ministry, the Enterprise Greece. I don't give that evidence. I don't have any evidence or anything else. The question is this. Our country, firstly, because of the uncertainty of the last two years, is not a attraction. That's the reality. There are bureaucratic issues that I can mention and are important. We need fifteen certificates and three months in addition to the purchase and transfer of the property, thousands of things. I understand that. As far as the services are concerned, they have an absolute lack of information - and I say it. They don't have a responsibility. A framework needs to be created and we should all help in this. So the first thing the government needs is to take serious care of. My view is that, when you tell me that we went there in 2013, in 2015, we went there, in 2016, they went there on their own. For example, I would recommend to the government that they campaign for this. Think of 4 to 5 billion euros coming to the country. Think about it. There could be a campaign and not pay for this Greek state, but it has to do with these revenues that will come and get a small fee: 1%, 0.5% or anything. You're a man of the market, and I really think you can do it. Therefore, there is a need for a campaign around the world and especially in the target countries. The second requires a change in the institutional framework, as you have said. We need to see where we need to go, what classes - I would say - of the economic level of the other countries as well. It's not bad to see. We must also see the other regions. Portugal, despite the fact that you say it gives a passport, gives two million. It's 2 million euros! I'm saying that again, so we can figure out what's going on. We could see and think about things, because I understand that there are also issues - and there have also been problems in Portugal - which have to do with people who have obtained a residence permit and who have not been within the framework of legality. We're all thinking about it and we're recognizing it. But as far as our country is concerned - we can see how much money we have received, because every investor knows where it is located and does not have to tell us where the market is - 300 million is calculated, because the property market in Greece has fallen. So is there a will? What are the ten steps you are ready to take as a government? And back them up! You should bring them to the committee, see what it is, to get people to know them, to make a change in the institutional framework they need. What initiatives will you take? That's what I've been waiting for from you after three years.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u24	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u25	Mr Constantopoulos, the first is that we are, as I told you before, in a very organised consultation with all the relevant bodies, ministries and individuals. This is the first time that we have been involved in this consultation. And very soon institutional improvements will come to the programme. The second is that the campaign you're talking about is already under way. There is a very large programme from ENTERPRISE to promote the programme. Our programme is internationally recognised as very competitive. Thirdly, we obviously have some peculiarities as a country. For example, the pressure from migration has been to us especially in previous years and has not been such. And finally, through this campaign that we are now doing, through the improvements and, above all, through the improvement of the real estate market - which we have already seen - we believe the next period will increase the performance of the programme very much. And one last thing: countries such as Portugal, Cyprus, have a difference in their own property market. In other words, they have large complexes ready for sale, unlike those of us that are scattered by the market. I repeat, however, that from people on the market through this consultation, messages are very encouraging. Finally, the figures say 1 billion euros of return for Greece and not 400 million euros. The synergies that come through the implementation of this programme are too many. So obviously we all need to work together. When we get the improvements, we'll talk. The subject of passport is a delicate subject and we need to discuss it with great attention. We're not all the same countries. So, with caution and measured steps, I believe that in the next period performance will grow very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u26	Good. It is a matter in which - because I hear, Minister, that you are a man of action - as an old one I make two proposals to you. You're convening at a special meeting of the committee responsible before you bring in the draft law! I see that almost all parties agree. Listen to the views and come to an integrated draft law!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u27	Of course!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u28	And I come to a second idea. I propose that there should be a four-page page which will be distributed to the country's gateways at the major airports to those who do not belong to the European Union! These are some millions of brochures that will be given. Greater campaign than they turn back and have the brochure with this briefing I think there isn't. Because, as far as I can see, there is hardly any objection from anyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u29	There is no objection, Mr President. But I just want to say that the debate you said - I think - has been identified for the 7th of July.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u30	All right, then, fine! And we close with the last question, which will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy, Mr. Nektarios Santorinios. It is the first with number 939/6-2017 a timely question for the second cycle of the New Democracy MP, Jason Fotella, to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the immediate need for the construction of the commercial port of Patras. Here, Mr. Lightla, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the construction of the commercial port of Patras will provide prospects for growth throughout Achaia and will create new jobs. It will be the driving force of entrepreneurship in the wider region and it will be abundantly demonstrated that, with the right infrastructure, even under the most unfavourable conditions, the business can flourish. I think it is unnecessary to mention - and you are well aware - what are the main features of the port of Patras. I will only mention the following: It is a main gateway to the West and to the whole of Europe. It's a modern port, with modern infrastructure. It has a triple character, i.e. it's a passenger, a tourist and a merchant. It is multipurpose, since it can carry dry, and wet cargo ships, container ships, but also RoRo ships for unaccompanied cargoes. In financial terms, his contribution cannot under any circumstances go unnoticed. Despite the particular economic circumstances, the port of Patras retains two and a half thousand jobs from the directly dependent enterprises. It contributes 3.74% to employment and creates a turnover of 64.3 million euros. Finally, 300 000 tonnes of raw materials are landed in the port. Minister, construction of the commercial section of the Port of Patras has been identified in a variety of ways. For example, I mention the European Union Decision 1341/2001, which changed the guidelines of the trans-European transport network concerning seaports, inland ports and intermodal terminals. According to that decision, ships are classified in categories A’, B’, C’, depending on their importance. The port of Patras was classified in category A. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like your tolerance for a moment, Mr President. Furthermore, Joint Ministerial Decision 8315/2007 once again shows the important position of the port of Patras, as well as the prospects created by its development. Furthermore, the Ministry of Shipping National Strategy for 2013-2018 decided that the port of Patras has an important place on the map of a modern port system. Finally, the findings of the assessment and sustainable development report of the Region of Western Greece, presented by the Ministry of the Environment in 2013 and specifically in Chapter D’ in paragraph 2.5 refer to the emergence of international trade and transport services of major transport projects. A very important element is that in December 2011 the then Commissioner responsible for regional policy, Johannes Khan, presented the port of Patras between a hundred and sixty-six projects as a priority project for the relaunch of the economy. Since, therefore, the integration of the commercial port into the Transport Strategy 2014-2025 is conditional on the inclusion of the commercial port in the Transport Strategy, in order to be financed, I ask you: In November 2017, a month in which the Strategic Transport Plan 2014-2025 can be reviewed, do you intend to incorporate into it the construction of the commercial port of Patras? Since, according to all the studies and the dynamics of the Region of Western Greece, the viability of the project is assured, what are the government's intentions regarding the construction of the commercial port and what concrete steps are you going to take? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u32	Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, Mr Fotella, it is clear and there is no need for dialogue that the development potential of the port is very important and that is what we are in agreement. As you said, the port of Patras belongs to the central ports of the trans-European transport network and it is indeed an important sea portal to the West. It is located almost at the centre of the Adriatic - Ionian - Eastern Mediterranean - Middle East sea highway. Its support, as you have said, will be of particular importance not only for the development of the city but also for the development of the wider region. That is why we have, unlike what had happened before, taken concrete action. I would therefore like to tell you that the Secretariat-General of Ports and Port Policy of our Ministry is already in the process of hierarchy of projects of strategic importance of ports, thus creating an action plan for both the safeguarding of resources and their implementation. That didn't happen before. Because you may have referred to the fact that it existed in the strategic plan, but the resources were not there and you know it. This means that in the re-enlargement, which also reflects the government's political will for vital projects, construction of the commercial port will be part of it. Also, our Ministry, through the General Secretariat of Ports and Port Policy, participates in the review of the General Strategic Plan for all transport in Greece in order to prepare a new master plan, which will respond to the needs of development, and to the needs of society. In this process our Ministry will propose the integration of the works into the commercial port of Patras. Finally, as you said, in relation to the SPA, the Strategic Framework for Investment and Transport, which will begin to be reviewed in November 2017, as a Ministry, we are participating in this review process as well and we will press for it to be inside. As you already know, however, with a communication made by the Minister present, Mr Dritsas, a large part of the port - not the part of the commercial port, the current commercial port - is given to the city in order to enable the city to experience the port and to have the interaction needed for the city of Patras and which, as you know, was a constant request from the citizens of Patras. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] After all this - and I am closing down, Mr President - I would say that the question should not be asked to us because a technical study on the port, the commercial port, which says that it is about 90-100m cost, has existed since 2011. And as you said, and Johannes Han was referring to it. But the Members who are next to you right now and who were in the previous government did not put it in the Strategic Framework for Investment and Transport. And you know what they put on Western Greece? The port of Katakolos with 7 million and the port of Kyllini with 3 million. That's how little they thought it was the region's dynamics. So, Mr Fotella, I'd say these questions don't make them to us, because we, as you can see, have set the goal of entering into the revision of the SPA. You must do it to your colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u34	Here, Mr. Lightla, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u35	Mr Minister, first of all, I did not come here to pay tribute. As to why he did not go in, in my opinion, wrongly. But things can be reviewed. And you're government now, so it doesn't make any sense to ask people who aren't in the government. In fact, I have heard your answer and I am really pleased about your good intentions. This answer is indeed in the right direction, since we are currently exporting seven thousand containers from Patras and importing more than five thousand, thereby motivating and working in the processing plants. All the above loads are transported by land means, which raises transport costs and, as you can see, affects the competitiveness of the products themselves. You know that the Achaea Chamber has conducted a very careful study that the construction of the commercial port will have a beneficial effect throughout the region and specifically throughout the region of western Greece. It is also expected that it will attract companies in the secondary sector, double production, and finally increase jobs in the BIP by at least 50%. In conclusion, I would just like to ask you if you believe - because even if it joins, it does not mean that it will surely be financed, but if it does not join, it is certain that it will not be financed - that you have the means to save the necessary funds so that in any case the project can proceed. In any case, I will be at your disposal, Minister, in order to implement this project, which is vital for the whole region. If I may, by closing down, I would like to thank Mr Dricassas, because he has actually made a request for the citizens of Patras, which has been pending for decades. And that's what we have to believe. Let's not just say the bad things, say the good stuff. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u36	I do not know whether he had heard 'thank you' when he was in action, but even late is good. Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u37	Mr Fotella, as you have said, the necessary and compulsory step to enable any transport project to be financed is to join the Transport Investment Framework Strategy. So, as I said before, we have the intention and we will really try to incorporate it, because it is very important when this strategic framework comes to hearing the Ministry of Shipping and, unfortunately, the previous government, when it did, did not hear the Ministry of Shipping and that is why ports were less involved. So today we are on two key points. One is the revision of the Strategic Transport Investment Framework, the so-called SPA, and the other is that today some of the projects in the transport sector are being completed, so some discounts, a revision of the programme will be made at the same time as the end of 2017. So, as I told you before, we are trying to ensure that what we will incorporate is already financed. That is why the target is double and you are right to mention it. Besides, do not forget that there are other possibilities of funding such as Connecting Europe Facilities, namely the trans-European transport networks, where the port of Patras is one of the main ports and therefore we could save some money from the revisions of the programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u38	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after taking part in the 'Democracy Workshop' educational programme, thirty-one students and two teachers from the 1st Municipal School of Ilioupoli. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the topical and urgent questions has been closed. Before entering the legislative work, according to the supplementary agenda which has been distributed to you, I would ask the Members' secretariats to inform us that an interruption will take place until 11.00 a.m. so that parliamentary representatives, rapporteurs and special speakers can enter the Chamber, at least to start legislative work.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u39	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, nineteen students and students and two educational attendants from the 3rd Municipal School of Magulas. The House welcomes you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u40	We enter the supplementary agenda of LEGISLATIVE WORK The only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all the draft law of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food: 'Following the amended Agreement establishing the General Committee for Fisheries for the Mediterranean'. I would like to remind you that the bill was passed by a majority vote in the Standing Committee. It is introduced to the House in accordance with the procedure laid down in Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure, that is to say, it may take the floor for those who object to the ratification of this agreement. However, because five amendments have been tabled, the number 1058/64, 1059/65, 106/66/66, 1061/67 and 1062/68, I propose that the debate be better organised, in accordance with Rule 65(5) of the Rules of Procedure and in accordance with the decision of the Conference of Presidents of 8-6/2017, that the rapporteurs and special rapporteurs be placed for 15 minutes on the agreement and on the amendments and then that Members be given the floor by a single list of speakers, consisting of a circle in proportion to the parliamentary power of the parties, namely, five MPs from the SYRIZA, three Members from the New Democracy and one MEP from the other parties, as well as one independent MEP, for seven minutes each. It is true that the Ministers who propose the amendments will also take the floor, and I would say that they will be preceded, so that the House will have a picture of these amendments and, of course, the accelerating Minister. It is proposed that the procedure should be completed at around 17.00 hours or, at least, we hope, near there and, if there is a request for a roll-call vote, that time will then be added and the vote will, of course, begin after the end of the debate. Does the House agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u41	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u42	Mr President, I too would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u43	Of course, Mr. Karathanasopus. But first, Mr. Dendias. Mr. Teddy, we're listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u44	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that the New Democracy cannot agree with the procedure proposed by the Bureau or with the whole procedure, which follows on from the five amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u45	I'm sorry, Mr. Dendia. Please, be quiet. Thank you very much. Mr. Teddy, please continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u46	First of all, Rule 87(2) of the Rules of Procedure - you all know that - which requires the tabling of amendments three days ago, in particular amendments to the importance of what the government wants to discuss today. Rule 74(5) of the Constitution and Rule 88(3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament are infringed. These are independent amendments to the text itself. Rules 112 and 108 of the Rules of Procedure are also being violated, because there are amendments to the Rules of Procedure in international conditions. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have, in fact, seen all these years, the eight years in which Memorandum provisions are to be discussed here, which, to a large extent, do not give rise to pride in the Greek Parliament, in the Greek Parliament and beyond the principle of popular sovereignty. But there are limits in all things. The appearance of sudden delayed amendments relating to legislation, which was passed a few days ago and entered by June, a day on Friday, with this procedure added to an international treaty - I say it again - are the complete ridicule of Parliament and the principle of popular sovereignty, Mr President. If the government has decided that the country is subordinate, it will make it clear to us in order to proceed with the relevant procedures and not to deal with the voting of such objects. Or we're all making fun of ourselves. So, first of all, there is the unconstitutionality of the whole process, secondly, there is an explicit unconstitutionality of a specific amendment for which there is a wording of the Court of Auditors and, thirdly, above all, there is full ridiculation of popular sovereignty. That's where it's going to have to stop, somehow, sometime this thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u47	Thank you. Mr. Theocharopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u48	Mr President, Minister, today's process is degrading. I'll use that terminology. It's really humiliating. In a process of ratification of the amended agreement establishing the General Fisheries Commission for the Mediterranean, in a ratification that actually provides for specific things and does not provide for any of the things that are being done today, you come and bring the last night five amendments - not even in the form of a draft law - and you go beyond yourself, because we have told you that it is not possible to go in the form of an emergency. We have told you that it is not possible to go in the form of an emergency. Instead of listening to some of the criticisms we have made about the form of urgency, you are also going beyond the form of urgency and bringing the last night to an international convention, without even having gone through the committee any day - this is the case today - five amendments, which are imposed on you and which show absolute negligence even in how you write the explanatory statement. If you think that the Greek Parliament, the MPs, can play this role both for your own mistakes and your own delusions to come in this today's unacceptable way of discussing and legislating, you are deeply late. Here, of course, the Bureau of Parliament, Mr President, needs to take concrete initiatives. For example, today, a list of speakers needs to be opened, in addition to the particular speakers appointed. We had done so in the sanctions procedures when such a logic started with pointless amendments. So today, that is to say, a normal debate at all today, because this cannot be done either by this ratification process, to reveal the size of the current sub-legislation. There really are limits. At last, the government and the Bureau of Parliament must put an end to this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u49	Thank you. Mr. Poppas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u50	Mr President, it is not just the Rules of Procedure that are currently being violated. I shall speak on the substance of this and say that it is not only made foolish, but literally the Greek Parliament and the government do nothing with today's manipulations and not just. We disagreed with the Conference of Presidents, and we also disagree on the substance. You all know the program doesn't come out. You all know that the memorials are a national disaster and a precursor of greater suffering for our multitude homeland and its people. You know what I mean. You all know that the only force for real national resistance is Golden Dawn and not the hypocrites, who are allegedly opposed to the memorandum and object to unconstitutionalism, but saying that 'we will not vote for the memorandum', making cheap opposition - and I mean the New Democracy - 'but I will apply the memorandum, I will implement the measures'. We have never heard the New Democracy expressly say: 'Whenever we become a government, we will not implement the measures'. At least you said it. You lied to the Greek people that you would tear the memoirs. You didn't shave them. The New Democracy does not listen to it honestly saying 'I will not implement the measures', on the contrary it says that 'I do not vote for them, I do not apply them'. "Honestly" I say, but who has lost his honor for the "Right"?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u51	Mr. Karathanasopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u52	Mr President, the Communist Party of Greece, addressed to our workers and our people, denounces the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, because once again, with disgusting and unacceptable methods, it brings new anti-grassroots, very tough measures against the people's family. The Government, in the form of amendments, is making new cuts, new reductions in pensions by means of the 'fresh' of pensions for another year. It leads to new losses by EUR 250 million of pensioners. It confirms, in other words, that during development it will also benefit the rich people, while the people will continue to bleed. It refers to the bells the question of collective agreements. The end date 21-8-2018 was "when the memoranda is completed", the memoranda of duration, without the expiry date. It paves the way for further karmatisation of duty, when it says that the Greek authorities, in agreement with the lenders, the imperialist organisations, that is, will apply the necessary adjustments. It also facilitates further electronic auctions. These measures are the following: they form part of the new anti-grassroots package of the fourth memorandum agreed by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government in the context of the second assessment with the European Union, the International Monetary Fund and the European Central Bank, they are the prerequisites for the management of the state debt. It is clear that any facilities available to serve the state debt will pay them extremely expensively by the labour, people's family. He's already paying for it. The people are bleeding for a debt that they did not do and for which they are not responsible. It is not a national objective, nor is the reduction of state debt, nor the integration into quantitative relaxation, nor the exit into the markets. These objectives are hard class targets, which serve the needs of monopolistic groups, urban order and capital. Nothing good for the Greek people to expect. We call on the workers to strengthen their struggle, to rise up and to go through the counterattack. The agreement that the government is preparing to sign at the Eurogroup on the 15th of the month is rival, anti-popular. SYRIZA - ANEL Government follows the path of the previous governments of the New Democracy and PASOK, not only in the implementation of anti-population policy but also in the way it is legislated. It even stumbles on the procedures provided for in order to limit the possibility of a debate in the House and also the revelation of the hostile for its employees policy. Your imagination is wrathful. The cataclyst has no limit. Next time, let's do a virtual round-up meeting and even a retrospective date. It's all possible for you to wait for them. The JRC is therefore condemning these horrendous methods, voting against the proposed amendments, legalising the coup d'état and leaving the sitting, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u53	We shall proceed to the other parliamentary representatives if they wish to be present.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u54	Mr President, I would like to make a clarification on the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u55	We're in a process. If the others talk, and in the end you'll take the floor. Mr. Amyras has asked for the floor. Here, Mr. Amyras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a matter of absolute humiliation. It is not just that you are actually bringing the "fresh" of the memorandum into an international fish convention, but you are facing, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, especially the MPs of the Co-population, that is, SYRIZA and ANEL, like a herd of fish that will vote in speed steps, provisions that will affect the lives of the Greeks for too many years. Mr President, this type of legislation is clearly and clearly demonstrated by the fact that the amendment to collective agreements, Minister and Minister, under number 1059, is mot a mot, precisely the text of Article 15 of the Fourth Memorandum. you voted two weeks ago. And I ask you: will the Government call again on the Communism to vote again as an amendment something that you have voted on two weeks ago? What is this situation? Objection or spoon? I now even enter the site of this House to see the amendment and see that you have downloaded it. Explain what this is about. We are, of course, opposed to the procedure you have chosen to bring the 'great' to the memorandum, and we ask, Mr President, that a list of speakers be opened without a limit, without a commitment, without restrictions. This is an extra Memorandum - how can I say it - and I regret the expression - to the Greek citizens. At least they have the time, especially the SYRIZA and ANEL Members, to listen to them, to see where they stand. Are they in favour of slug or of stopping and repulsing such parliamentary capsules? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u57	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, five students and students as well as two educational attendances from the University of Houston. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We proceed with the parliamentary representative of SYRIZA Mr. Nikos Xydakis. Mr. Xydakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Mr President. I listen carefully to the objections, objections and objections of Members of the Com mittee of Inquiry. I agree with you enough. However, we also have to agree that since 2010 Parliament has been in an exception. If you refuse...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u59	It's not like that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u60	Please, I didn't interrupt anyone. To speak the language of political reality and the language of national needs. The government...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u61	Now that's what happened?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u62	Please very much now. Don't make it a student amphitheater. There is a major policy choice from the government, to exhaust the prerequisites posed by creditors, as they are being exhausted to rather or defeat with various tactics since 2010, to go to a purely negotiating field in the next Eurogroup. They've already been taken over...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u63	And why couldn't he come as an emergency and be discussed in committee today and tomorrow in plenary?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u64	I'll explain it to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u65	No, but no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Please. You're not helping, Mr. Voridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u66	Heavy diplomatic initiatives have already been taken on Greece on behalf of Greece, in order to get to some form of debt, to go to some clear-cut principle for our country. This has been the case for the last seven-and-a-half years in Greece. We know. This is the government's political choice. It is transparent, it is public, everyone knows it, the opposition parties know it, and we all know the historic test that the country has been going through since the beginning of 2010. It's nothing new. As far as the prerequisites are concerned, creditors have been placed on the table at the last minute. It's not our choice. It would be much easier for Parliament, for colleagues' strengths and for the strengths of the Coupling to pass on to the last package of major measures. They were put at the last minute. They set themselves up for their own purposes and for their own political logic.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u67	Why do they accept them?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u68	Are we going to leave five 'horses' essential to undermine the major political effort? That is our request. The French Minister for Finance, Lemer, in Athens, has already come on Monday to inform us.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u69	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u70	Mr. Amyras, if you're kind...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u71	The next Wednesday is the Eurogroup.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u72	Mr. Amyras, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u73	I appeal to the mind, to the logic of political pragmatism, to a national need. If we can understand them, we can move on. That's it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u74	Thank you. The Parliamentary Representative of the Union for Central and Eastern Europe, Mr Megaloustakas, has called for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u75	Mr President, what is happening today is a disgrace to all of us and above all to those who claim to be left-wing, because we cannot admit to Parliament that we are no longer legislating and not doing what we must do for our country. I think the lenders have understood you. They have put you in the same category as the previous ones, those who knew how to manage them, as all corruption and all the pathogens of the past led us here. Perhaps with the previous ones they were pressing on it and they knew what scandals they had. You say that you are clean, but we do not see any change at all. What happened in 2010 is even now. The world didn't choose you for that. We have become in this House to legislate with the status of urgency, urgency and with delayed amendments. This really benefits our own population, the Parliamentary Republic, as there is not a few hours before you give us any amendments irrelevant to the bill, which are very important, because they are prerequisites for the agreement and you want us to vote in favour of them today. It's really something I can't think of. Have we been taken for carpoises by the lenders? I don't understand. Didn't you have the time? I believe that even with the pressure from the Eurogroup you could bring it next week, on Monday and Tuesday to debate, there is time. And if you want to bring it today, why don't you open the list? To listen to you, the representatives of the cohabitation, your position, if we have to support them. Or again with a black heart will you vote on them and after they are implemented, then will you make meetings between you two, to see how you can cancel your decisions? That's not a serious policy. You don't want our vote. You'll vote for them yourself. You will be voting on this memorandum and on the way you are going to bring another memorandum, because unfortunately it is not at all serious what you are dealing with at all. I'm afraid so. It is not a serious matter that I vote two days later to go out and bring in amendments with which I will try to undo the law that I have voted on. I'm afraid so. Why don't we open the list? You all talk, see what your position is, which you believe, with which of them you agree, and what exactly you want to achieve with all of this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, too. Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks Mr Athanasios Papachristopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u77	Mr President, I will be a little unpleasant. Yes, indeed, it's not the pleasant thing to impose on you the strong terms. It is of great importance, however, at least the parties that have ruled forty years to remember who brought the country here and made it a weak link. I will be unpleasant to recall that when unemployment is at 27%, when assets are lost, when 120% of GDP receives it at 180% and when the debt, for which we are not responsible, is EUR 325 billion - and how this happened today after many years in health and armaments examinations - yes, we are a weak link. I would like to ask you: on the 15th of the month is the Eurogroup and the 22nd summit. Honestly you ask in you: do we have another choice? Do you really want us not to vote on them? Did you see what happened to Farage in England and the Eurosceptics? They're gone! Tsamboukas... [[Noise - Laughers from the wings of the New Democracy and the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR]] Listen a little. A revolutionary stove of the safe is not justified and we are not apologizing to those who plundered the country for forty years. Yes, we are here with absolute transparency, doing what must be done to get the country out of this comitology. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u78	Thank you, Mr. Papachristopoulos. The President of Parliament, Mr Nikolaos Voutsis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u79	There have been expressions of ridicule, greed, shame, etc. It is obvious that silence is not gold and we have never followed it, not only myself, who have never followed it, but also colleagues from all sides. We must put ourselves on the ground in the debate that is taking place. Indeed, yesterday at a good meeting of the Conference of Presidents - the climate of which had nothing to do with some leaks from some aspects of the fact that it was a mess, etc. - Explanations were given, no matter where they were not accepted. They were contradicted by the representatives of the Officerial Response and the Hellenic Response, but explanations were given in a very serious and political context as well. Maybe any of our colleagues want to look back on the Minutes. It was confirmed by a majority that we should follow this procedure. It is right to repeat this debate on the subject at the plenary level and it is reasonable. Ladies and gentlemen, it makes no sense to revert to say exactly how much and who did it in connection with Parliament's discussions and procedures, which have indeed been over and up to now, many times have been hit by their correctness and procedural text. I would simply remind you of the debate, without any compensation or counter-compensation, of a number of procedures through legislative acts, where neither as urgent or urgent debates in this House, in critical phases due to deadlines or other procedures, were in the Constitution and, of course, with the commitment we all know after forty or how many days, that they should also be approved by the Greek Parliament. There was therefore a series of such procedures provided for or within the limits of the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure, etc. I would like to ask the President-in-Office of the Council whether he would like to make a statement on the situation in Bosnia-Herzegovina and on the situation in Bosnia-Herzegovina and on the situation in Bosnia-Herzegovina and in Bosnia-Herzegovina. But to come, in fact, because of the substance of the matter yesterday, on the basis of the substance, we also objected to the relevant objections to the Conference of Presidents. Ladies and gentlemen, everyone knows that thankfully the process of discussing the second assessment has taken a multi-factorial and international character at all levels. Fortunately, because all of this has come to the surface, because we have either speculated or known, or all the colleagues from the European parties in the wider family to whom they belong have known: Contrasts, controversies, attitudes, political pressures, tripods, let me speak. Should I remind you of dialogues that had taken place a year ago and were made public, saying a specific strategy that would be followed? We see the process every day, as we all go back to the sites. We cannot always have the Minister for Finance, who is the head of the negotiating team, to inform us. We know that an excellent effort is being made from the government's point of view. That's what I call it. Others are described as hypocritical or anything else. It doesn't matter. This international debate concerns many things, many fronts, too many correlations, even Europe's very 'architecture' after 2018. This international debate is taking place on the occasion of the Greek programme and the debate and pressure there is. We all know very well that this debate is developing. I am optimistic - and I say this very clearly - that its evolution in the next few days, as an ancillary one, will be in the direction of reaching an agreement on the basis of which, within visible periods, I mean, within the framework of the established deadlines and the established horizon, both move on to the markets and to the settlement of the debt and all the prerequisites, because precisely the Greek economy is - and everyone mentions this internationally, not only in this respect - on the basis of the latest data available on critical sectors, whether social, such as unemployment, or economics relating to development, in which our country has already entered the first quarter - in a situation which, in fact, can, as a backdrop and with this agreement, the second assessment, without in addition to the substance now - which the debate would take place last time, would have been conducted here and which would have a very good roadmap to it. This is where this international debate, which is not a conference debate, is going, but it is a hard confrontation between organisations, ministries of finance, leaders of the European Union, who are watching as well as the electoral cycle - and note this - which is being held on the European continent and everyone trying to gain points in the general debate, which is being held for the future of Europe, in which we all participate, which, within 2017 and towards the end of it, will potentially demarcate a new 'architecture', some new correlations, measures to tackle the deadlocks and crises of the European Union, etc. I'm closing up with this because I've had a long break and I'm sorry. Yesterday I was detailed at the Conference of Presidents, and colleagues know it: The government's choice was made given that there were no possibilities to go on Monday, that is to say, in a more normal procedure, because it would not be as it should be, because today, tomorrow, they were already on the basis of the decision that we were discussing today, a series of debates. It has been said before - and I heard it - that the French Minister for Finance will be here as well. It is nothing important, but for a week only the new French Minister for Finance has made a series of debates - exploratory and others - on the basis of projects much better than those that had been presented and which, in my view, were correctly rejected by the Greek Government on 22 May. That's the situation. The debate could not go any further for these reasons. Therefore, my proposal is to have the procedure as long as the substance of the issues raised and everyone will judge the adequacy of the ministers of the government. For example, we have heard a little earlier Mr Karathanasopoulos on the substance of all five items. So there should be a conflict between Parliament and a procedure which we can guard - and I am sure we will do so on the substance of the matter - to develop until this afternoon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u80	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u81	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u82	Mr President, on a point of order, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u83	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u84	Two minutes. We're not going to move on with secondarys.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u85	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u86	Please, Mr. Voridis, you have no say. Has the Deputy Minister for Rural Development asked the floor to say something...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u87	Mr President, I asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u88	Excuse me, Minister. Mr Pappas had asked for the floor to make a clarification for a few seconds. Here, Mr. Pappa, I promised you I'd give you the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u89	I want to make a clarification. Our view of the Left and its ethnic policies is well known and old today. We didn't, we didn't, and we don't want to have any relevance. On the contrary, others rang, others established, others legalized the Left. So the clarification, Mr President, is as follows: because the oral reason differs from the written one, I would like to ask the stenographers in my previous position, when I mentioned the term 'Sight' for the New Democracy, for this to be introduced, because in any case they themselves have been absolved for too long. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u90	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u91	Mr President, I would like to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u92	We're in the process now. We're not doing anything else. The Minister also asked for the floor on a point of order. We don't get out of the process, Mr. Theocharopoulos. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u93	Ladies and gentlemen, it is certainly not right to legislate with urgent legislation, nor to introduce amendments to sanctions for contracts. I would agree with the position of the President of Parliament that it is not right to enter into the suffering of netting, 'you the other day, the New Democracy and the Democratic Alliance, did so, the time has come for us'.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u94	You've been overdoing it, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u95	Please. But, ladies and gentlemen, this is a supreme interest, when you know that with these amendments the second assessment is complete, our obligations are fulfilled so that we can enter the next phase that is no other than the exit of our country into the international markets...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u96	He's got a third evaluation.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u97	...and the way out of the crisis, we'd expect more responsibility from you right now. They are, ladies and gentlemen, often, rhetoric, which focus on the policy of impression and not on the policy of solutions. It is, however, sometimes, like now, dangerous. Leave the demagogue inside you and function as a Responsible Civic Response. [[Noise - Applause from the New Democracy Wing]] The country will move forward and move on without you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u98	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u99	Mr President, I would like to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u100	We're in the process. Mr. Theocharopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u101	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u102	As what? I'm sorry, there's a parliamentary representative, Mr. Dendias. If he wants anything...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u103	I want to raise an issue of unconstitutionality. Would you give me the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u104	The issue of unconstitutionalism has been mentioned by Mr Dendias. I'll ask him in a minute...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u105	No, that's where we're talking.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u106	Two minutes, Mr. Voridis. I mean, the gentleman has the floor...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u107	We said we circumvented the procedure, but...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u108	No, no procedure. Mr. Theocharopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u109	Mr President, first of all - first of all a clear proposal: the House will vote on whether there will be a normal list of speakers if there will be a procedure as it has been done before in ratification of a convention. I heard before the President of Parliament, who made a speech not as President of Parliament, but as a government representative. Unfortunately, it has been made clear to the government in support of all matters of negotiation, and we raised specific issues here and did not ask for a political speech from the President of this House. We have asked to answer why what is being done here today in plenary. Instead of getting specific answers, we heard charges about the past, and what you had to do today is say what you have been doing for two years now in this process. At the same time, I will remind you that it has never been done without the opinion of the Scientific Committee on Memorandum of Requirement, nor has it come to this process, that is, what is happening today. I'm saying that to understand what's going on. So, here too, the Bureau of Parliament needs to ensure that it operates. What has happened so far has been done. Today this House clearly decides that the sitting will continue with those speakers who want to be registered and, if necessary, to go tomorrow. I have heard the President of Parliament say that we must be ready on Monday. So he can go tomorrow. It is not possible on such crucial issues to remain in procedural pretexts.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u110	Understood. We're keeping it. We're not shutting this down. Mr. Teddy, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u111	Mr. President, excuse me. I am referring again to what Mr Voridis is trying to tell you - and he allows me to interpret him - that this is where an issue of unconstitutionality arose. The answer of all speakers on the majority side - and it allows me to interpret it - and the President of Parliament and the Minister? They did not respond to unconstitutionalism. They have called for a law of the need, which, if I am well aware of, is the abolition of unfairness in common, and in law at the level of the Constitution, requires other things, which are not currently in force. Therefore, if I listened well, there was a consensus on anti-constitutionalism in fact by all the speakers. In this sense, therefore, the National Representation is invited to take a decision. Is there or is there no unconstitutional here? If there is unconstitutionality, then all the rest of the lists of speakers are superfluous. We leave, we leave, the government takes the legislation that it has brought with all these amendments and is taking care of the next time, when it attempts to legislate, to be constitutional. It's two different issues. First unconstitutionalism over the general, then the general procedure, then the unconstitutionalities over these provisions. It's different issues. I would therefore ask that the issue of unconstitutionality be raised, that anyone who considers this procedure to be a constitutional one in this way should reply. How he'll then justify it to himself, that's another matter. But to explain why it is a constitutional matter. Unless - I say again - what is the government doing here? Is he pleading fairness of the need that the Constitution is devastated? To be informed, is that what he tells us?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u112	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u113	We are obviously not told that because the answer to legislative acts is not an answer. Legislative acts are included in the Constitution, there is such a possibility that, if the government wanted, it would follow it. He's not following it. It follows an anti-constitutional procedure. These are implementing provisions, by the way. But Mr. Athanasios said that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u114	Not in international conventions, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u115	I know. Charalape, don't get involved in legal heavens, because society doesn't understand them. I heard what you said and you're right, it's like that. In any case, however, we must decide here on one particular, constitutional or not the procedure followed on the part of the government. We, New Democracy, say that it is absolutely unconstitutional and please raise the question as the Rules of Procedure provide.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u116	Look, Mr. Treasury. We have two issues, the one you put and the one Mr Theocharopoulos put. On the issue of constitutionality, in accordance with Rule 100 of the Rules of Procedure, it only comes into bills and not amendments. We've got...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u117	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u118	We have amendments here. Do you raise a question of the unconstitutionality of the amendments or, in general, of the entire procedure being followed? If so, what article of the Constitution is violated through this process, which we have noted many times in conventions to have... [[Noise in the Chamber]] I have a full list of how many cases we have discussed and voted on amendments to conventions. In no case had there been any question of unconstitutionality.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u119	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u120	I would ask you in this respect, in which, in a way, alpha or beta were all placed, not to insist and only to see the subject that Mr Theocharopoulos has.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u121	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u122	Here you go, Mr. Voridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u123	I raise my hand. You don't give me the floor. I don't understand. Is there a problem?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u124	We are in the process of speaking to the parliamentary representatives.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u125	I would like to inform you that I wish to raise an issue of unconstitutionality under Article 100. Would you give me the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u126	You got him now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u127	Thank you very much, Mr President. We do not have to fight to take the floor in Parliament. This must be a little easier.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u128	The process is progressing properly. Don't have any doubts about that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u129	Good, thank you very much. I find it extremely regrettable, ladies and gentlemen, that this unconstitutional procedure has been undertaken to defend the President of Parliament, instead of defending it by the government which is primarily responsible, because the President of the Parliament, who is the President of all of us, has a responsibility to respect our internal issues, as defined in the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament and as laid down in the Constitution. The government, which is now at the very last stage of humiliation, of course, is not dealing with the issues of the observance of the parliamentary procedure and order, which, by the way, - to reach agreement - are not formal matters, but are issues of substance. How are we going to discuss these amendments? It says: 'It is nothing and nothing, something 'here'. What's "heavy"? Some 'heavy' hundreds of millions, 'heavy' consequences for citizens. These are the kind of "hearts" that are. Therefore, it is not trivial topics and there must be a proper procedure. And I come here to ask: is it not clear what says Constitution? It states: 'Addition or amendment not related to the main object of the draft law of the proposal shall not be introduced for discussion'. Are we now elementarily serious about saying that in the fish contract discussed by a special sanction procedure, not by the normal legislative procedure, will you come and take additional measures of a few hundred million, without letting it be a full debate? I have heard from the honourable parliamentary representative of SYRIZA the argument of the emergency. Question: Are there no special procedures in Parliament? Do you not know the urgency procedure? Haven't you implemented it? Isn't that your permanent practice? Could these procedures not be done, could these five Ministers, without humiliating Parliament, an urgent bill, for the committees to meet today and for the debate to end tomorrow in plenary? What's your problem? Twenty-four o'clock? Are you going to humiliate the process because you miss it 24 hours? At the same time as the Prime Minister was ready from the extremely good news of the debt arrangement to make us the honor of putting a tie, we ended up not having the debt, and we ended up being humiliated against the judicial authority. Why does the Court of Auditors write in its report? 'The second postponement of the entry into force of the legal effects of the provision within a period of less than one month from the entry into force of the earlier regulation shows both the failure...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u130	Mr. Voridis, now you're actually on the side road.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u131	Don't cut him to the critical!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u132	Let us talk now!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u133	You're getting on the ground by the side road!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u134	I'm not actually going into it. Here's the unconstitutionality of your arrangement.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u135	I gave you the floor for the unconstitutionality and you talk about the substance of the articles.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u136	You're not listening to me, Mr. President. None of the articles. I would like to reread what the Court of Auditors says about the constitutionality of the insurance regulation. What substance of the articles?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u137	Go on, Mr. Voridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u138	But you're gonna let me go?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u139	I will leave, but we should know that you have asked for the floor to explain what article in the Constitution is violated and how to see whether we are going to have a debate and a vote on constitutionality or not alone.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u140	I just realized that what you would prefer to speak is the mention of an article. But that's not how it works. You will allow the arguments to be developed. I understand the difficulties, but the arguments will be heard.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u141	How long do you need for that, Mr. Voridis?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u142	As long as you put it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u143	Not like that. You'll tell me how much time you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u144	As long as the President of Parliament took to develop the geopolitical strategy of SYRIZA and the government that goes very well! Same time. This time I want.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u145	Of course not!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u146	So let go, now. Allow me. I'm on it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u147	I'll give you three minutes to develop your topic.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u148	I continue to read what the Court of Auditors says about constitutionality. So what does it say? It demonstrates both the failure of previous regulations and the lack of a stable and long-term plan, with regard to public pensions paid. Legislative power is being undermined by what the government proposes - and you are being patiently accepted without any criticism - and it is being humiliated against judicial power too. All this for the major one - it says - aims to complete the evaluation. So the question is very simple. Beyond the substance - which we will develop in the next period with this relentless process, which you have chosen - we need to be in this humiliating process for Parliament? I heard about the PPAs. I'm not telling you it's good practice. But are the PPPs not being discussed? Is it practical? They're coming to Parliament to discuss this? Is there a regular PPP meeting? Yes! Can Parliament reject them? Yes! Is this PPP procedure not provided for by the Constitution? Oh, no! This procedure, however, is a procedure that is not provided for in the Constitution. I'm asking why. What's the emergency? Why are you humiliating Parliament, Ministers? Why are you humiliating Parliament? What's the point? Why cannot a decision be taken tomorrow and a decision must be taken this afternoon? Explain to us why you are not doing the self-evident thing now. Remove these provisions from ratification. Make one bill and put it down, discuss it this afternoon and come to plenary tomorrow. Why do you choose this process? Ladies and gentlemen, why do they choose this procedure, because they do not have time? Because they are trying to work out, without public dialogue, Parliament's decision, your decision. They are trying to cover up the humiliation that exists, which has unfortunately resulted in their hands being also humiliation of the country. It's unacceptable. Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, the Bureau of Parliament should also safeguard the validity of Parliament and the procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u149	As far as I am concerned, a general issue of unconstitutionalism has been raised without any reference. If the question of what article is violated in order to have a debate on this matter, we will be opening the procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u150	It is Article 75(5), verse C. I said it when I read it. I'm sorry you're not watching me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u151	I didn't follow you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u152	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u153	Here you go, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u154	Mr President, however, you have to deal with the procedure. If we have started a debate on unconstitutionalism, I, too, shall take the floor as one of the Members of Parliament. If you want the articles to be recorded, I can tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u155	We're not there. I imagine Mr. Voridis has developed his opinion. It will take the floor on the part of the government and, of course, those who want the parliamentary representatives. We are in the constitutional debate. The Minister of Finance, Mr. Chakalotos, has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u156	Mr President, the Minister speaks last after hearing the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u157	It doesn't matter. He can talk now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u158	The Rules say the Minister closes the debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u159	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u160	You will not have privileged treatment in this process, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u161	I don't ask for it, either.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u162	Left is against privileges.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u163	That's it! Ladies and gentlemen, we do not want to squeeze anyone, and neither could Mr Vorides, nor could we squeeze him. I think he has every ability to overcome any obstacle we put on so he can't tell his word the way he wants. I'll tell you exactly what's happened. I don't understand why there's this big surprise that something terrible is happening when we know that for seven years Greece has been on surveillance and that the association of forces was against you, it's against us. We on this monitoring and committee have made various efforts to alleviate it, from the way we negotiate to the heads of all institutions - and four - for this summer of 2016, for micro-supervision, micro-management, for wanting to talk about very small details, not only that this should be politics on shaft lines, but even for formalities, where they seem to be not understanding Greek legislation, as the lawyers say. That's how we do bad laws, like you did bad laws because this job was done. We have not only officially protested the four institutions about this micro-management, but we have also made a letter to the European Court of Auditors on this subject. You must know that we have every discretion to go even to the European Court of Justice for institutions that go beyond the European acquis, for example, in relation to Europe's fundamental Charter of Rights and we will continue. Our main strategy has been to leave the comitology all this time. That's what we've worked on, and that's our key strategy. Of course, the committee will never be bipolar, one day we will have it and one day we will not have it. It's also in the nature of capitalism. In other words, even the markets are a form of committee. If you make policies that don't like the markets, they can sell your bonds, drop the bond prices, increase the interest rate and make it harder to borrow. But our constant effort will be to reduce this. What do we have in front of us now? We have, in my view, a significant change in the freezing sector and we have four others, which allow me, not even two days, I think that within 40 minutes, five minutes each speaker could be finished. One is serious, and one needs to be discussed. The reason we want to do this so quickly is one and only. The reason is that the great risk we have in the negotiation - before I say this - is that our opponents are not single, not only that there are four different institutions and eighteen Member States that are in the Eurogroup, but there are also disagreements within the Community and within the IMF and between the IMF and the Community and between Germany. They are some who want to turn Thursday's debate into Eurogroup instead of it for the debt, to be for the prerequisites. What I am asking you and I ask the Greek Parliament is - we will see and we will all judge what the result of this Eurogroup will be, if Mr Vorides is right, that we will not get anything about the debt, that we will not get into the QE, that all this is being played, in my view, then, so that we can also say that we have done this, not more, what we could, and you can tell us that it was not and that you would have gone much better or whatever you say - is to let that possibility exist. Many of our opponents want to exploit and transform Thursday's debate from a debate on the development plan, which will help us to develop, to be able to reduce the debt burden from the debt denominator as a percentage of GDP, so with growth, for what measures will be described and, therefore, there will be greater clarity for the debt and what formulation there will be for the sustainability of the debt, to open the road to both the QE and market access. This, for me, is the basic point I ask the Greek Parliament to discuss on Thursday on the debt issue and on these issues and nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u164	Thank you. Mr. Loverdos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u165	I am speaking on a constitutional issue, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u166	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u167	First of all, to be typically correct, I mention the articles we are talking about. These are Articles 73 to 76 of the Constitution, with the emphasis of Article 76, which define the legislative function of the House, whether normal, urgent or urgent. At the same time, I am referring to the articles, which are interpreted under Rule 108 and Rule 111 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, concerning the abbreviated legislative procedures, which we would normally follow today, but which are now being followed by anti-standard and unconstitutional. This is the mesh of the provisions, which is largely insulted. What is now our reasoning for these arguments? Firstly, everyone who refers to past practices, before SYRIZA and ANEL, who were also extraordinary, urgent, with legislative acts, is right, in all the Memorandum years. Anyone who says that's not what happened hides the truth and becomes a convict. That's right. It is right, too, that the two and a half years of SYRIZA and ANEL this has been exacerbated. Even the Rules of Procedure of the House on the extraordinary legislative procedure have been declining. Even your own provisions judged by the courts of anti-constitutional law go beyond eleven. But even the articles on brief procedures of the House have become articles that pass through your daily policy whether it is a memorandum or another. We have said a thousand times - and President Kourakis has heard and helped - to make procedures more democratic sometimes. For example - you have accepted and it is your honour - to open a list of speakers. Is that what we're dealing with today? Whoever says that wants to hide the reality. It's a different matter. All this has been invaded. Your negative practice has also been violated. He's broken everything in the past that's happened and he's been labeled as negative. What are you bringing today? You are bringing in prerequisites - as Mr Theocharopoulos said - at the cost of hundreds of millions with any of the constitutional procedures provided for, but with a procedure that is unacceptable, non-existent and unconstitutional. You're bringing them in an amendment. What do you want to avoid? The two days of the political dialogue which the urgent procedure would have, namely, one day in committee, one day in plenary, avoiding all the weapons that a Member has to judge, namely, above all the study, the opinion of the Committee on Research, Technological Development and Energy. In order to save all this, you are bringing us an amendment to the prerequisites for the first time. Are you telling us now about international policy? The one who doesn't understand what everyone else understands, he's happy. But there's no way of pleading here. There's a case of open wickedness. If you want to vote for this and go today in this process, you are a hundred fifty three and you will pass it. But you're now cold, paid pistols. Whoever they show you, shoot him. Please step back! [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Find a sex of figs. We gave it to you. We have proposed to you from the beginning of the procedure something which would at least wash off you, a procedure which would have made colleagues take the floor. Will you have a brief procedure with one of each party to take the floor even for that? You must be ashamed and it's time to get it back. Mr President, there is a clear unconstitutionalism. You are right to say that Rule 100 of the Rules of Procedure speaks of the debate at first instance. But here, Mr President, the debate on what you are going to do raises a need for you to interpret the Rules of Procedure, which you are now presiding in a broader way, so that you can salvage everything from the point of view of the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u168	Thank you. SYRIZA will speak from the point of view of SYRIZA Mr.Nikos Paraskeviopoulos and will support the issue of constitutionality.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u169	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u170	Mr. Carras, I've seen you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u171	Mr President, I have asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u172	In the parliamentary order, don't you go?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u173	I've all seen you. Mr. Paradoxopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u174	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as I know our report, which will present our response to the prerequisites, must be submitted on Monday. This means that there is also a need for some working time to be worked out and also that we have had no other way of responding to the deadline that exists, only the act of legislative content or this procedure of tabling an amendment. I do not think there was time for an independent piece of legislation, which he wants - even if it is under the urgency procedure - its own procedure. Therefore, the procedure followed, namely the preference for an amendment instead of the MDG, is the one that allows the issue to be debated, and with the MDG it would not pass by the House at all before reaching the implementation stage. Because it may be that the MAGP is being debated retrospectively, but of course it would be the critical implementation that would result from Thursday's debate. That is how we ensure a substantial debate, which has already begun with the examination of a question of constitutionality which has been raised and which I shall try to answer. I therefore believe that the only constitutional issue that can be raised relates to Article 73 and mentions the need for provisions which have a pension content to be specific, while they are introduced as an amendment here. First of all, I would like to point out that the Court of Auditors' report itself has no objection to the fact that an amendment is added to a draft law. What is indeed pointing out is that we do not have a special provision here to ensure that this issue is debated in a specific way. What I would like to say is that, however, with the current practice of the House, which is accepted by the case-law, according to what I know, speciality is guaranteed when we have a special chapter in the legislation that is being formed. The existence of a special chapter is something for which there is time and it is a matter of legislation. I think that there is a possibility in this debate to ensure that we do not have this problem. As far as the only regulation which, however, seems to have a substantial content is concerned, I shall refer hereto, because the rest appear to be mainly legal. Let me say in parentheses that the country simply obviously does not want an issue that is not of importance, but of legal nature, to create risks in a wider negotiation and to face up to doubts that are negative. This is all about most of the regulations, you will have seen the amendments, we have no substantial changes in the data and, indeed, a social dimension. The only issue that has a social dimension is pension. But here, I have to say that the essential data concerning this regulation is what has already been discussed in a month ago and even in the legislation of 2016. So what's the matter? The question is whether or not the change occurs is disproportionate in relation to the public interest that has arisen. In the previous debate, which we had in Parliament, we recalled the decision of the European Court of Justice, which considers that this weighting of gravity and proportionality is something that is primarily done by the state and not by the court. I must remind you, of course, that the European Court of Justice in the Koufakis and ADEDY case against Greece ruled after a decision by our Council of State, which acknowledged that weighting these issues is a matter of state. That's all I wanted to say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u175	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty students and students and four educational attendants from the 13th Chalkida Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause of all Parliament's wings]] Mr. Pappas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u176	Mr President, in support of what I am going to say next, namely how hypocritical you are - and I do not mean personally, Mr President, I mean your resignation, but the New Democracy - is that you as a SYRIZA MEP, who also happens to be President-in-Office, have not interrupted Mr Loverdos when he called you all paid guns, that is to say he called you murderers, who are carrying out the European Union's death contracts. If that is to say how hypocritical you are, which is true, a competitor of the Members of the Golden Dawn had said so, for example, Yiannis Ragos, on Wednesday he would be in the Ethics Committee, Mr Kourakis, to whom you are President. So it is hypocritical that both SYRIZA and the New Democracy talk about unconstitutionalism, because if we look at youtube or the archives of the House and see in the position of the government the Samara-Venizelos co-government and the SYRIZA officer's position, we will see that they are just the same ones, but the roles have changed. Just what you did in 2012-2013 now does New Democracy and exactly what New Democracy did in 2012-2013 you, the Syrians. The point is that you commit with your vote and your signatures the country to a permanent comitology and you come here to speak of unconstitutionality. Your positions, and today and the previous days with the fourth memorial, prove that the only antimonetary power in the Greek Parliament is the nationalist movement of the Golden Dawn. It's the only popular voice of national resistance. Be sure because the Minister said "we took the spoon..." and there he stopped a moment forgetting what he said, I will add "...to do the same," that's where the conversation went. But in any case, you should know that when some people take the dog, when the people take the dog, when they become the national government with a pillar of the Greek Golden Dawn nationalists, you all will answer and the thieves will go to jail and the people will actually come to power. Mr President, both liberal and false right-wing and left-wing worship the same Moloch, the same god, in the modern Babel called Brussels. We therefore call 'no' in Brussels, not in Berlin. We are antimony, because we are above all Greek.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u177	Mr President, I would like to speak, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u178	Mr. Tendia, have you asked me why to argue? Because Mr. Vorides spoke far away.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u179	Mr Vorides, Mr President, spoke as a Member.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u180	Okay, you guys will develop the subject of your speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u181	Yes, Mr. President. I, as you know, am usually short and short of Mr Vorides, who, due to his exercise in Criminal Law, tends to be broader wording. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this House has a specific issue to discuss, the issue of the constitutionality raised by Mr Vorides, which relates to Article 74(5) of the Constitution of the Hellenic Republic. This, not something else in general. On the issue of constitutionality, raised by Mr Vorides, they answered by a majority of two. First of all, the Minister of Finance, Mr. Chakalotos. Mr. Tsakalotos, if I understood correctly, confessed to Mr. Vorides, who obviously has fatherly or maternal characteristics, his pain. In other words, he told him how difficult we are and therefore asked for his understanding of the need to legislate. On the issue of unconstitutionalism, however, the Minister of Finance did not say a single word. So the government did not respond to the Minister's reply. Then the professor, Mr. Paraskevi, spoke, and even there was a Minister of Justice. Mr Paradoxopoulos has developed a new legal view, which was not mentioned in paragraph 7, but in paragraph 73, which did not raise any question of unconstitutionality at this stage, even though Mr Athanasios had rightly provided for this, because in my initial position I said that this will be raised after the private articles. Consequently, neither the Minister of Finance nor the colleague, chosen by the government majority to oppose the request for unconstitutionality, has responded. Ladies and gentlemen, this is just a matter. I am not going, Professor - if I may address you the floor - to comment on your argument 'better an anti-constitutional procedure with debate rather than an act of legislative substance because it has no debate', because I understand that you would not tell your students that. Now, why are you telling the National Representation? I don't know. So to be informed, the Constitution is the Constitution of the Hellenic Republic, Mr President. That's it. Whoever doesn't like, there's the review process. From there on, if I understood correctly, is the government's majority prepared to claim that in a fish treaty, is it appropriate to put an amendment to the pension cut? To understand, that's the argument? If that is the argument, if the government is about to ask the majority Members to vote on fish for pension cuts, then frankly, Mr President, the ridicule which the government has in Parliament has, does not have any limit, nor will it be historically possible in the future. In order for there to be no question of whether we are entitled to discuss the principle of the bill, the issue of the unconstitutionality of the amendments, this has been resolved, ladies and gentlemen, on 29-1-2016, when the issue of television licences was being discussed. If your memory does not go that far, when I on the subject of the well-known Savvidis amendment, I had raised a matter of unconstitutionalism after that, which emerged from Mr Kammenos's position at the time, who named and therefore photographed the law and therefore unconstitutional, he replied to me, at your disposal, then the President of Parliament, that the matter should have been raised at the beginning of the bill and only then. Mr Vorides therefore formally raises the question of Article 74(5) and calls on the National Representation to decide whether or not the fish treaty is relevant to the reduction of pensions. If, ladies and gentlemen, you are ready to read this Ruvik and put the pensions next to the fish, then enjoy!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u182	Mr. Amyras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u183	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will simply repeat in an introductory phrase a phrase by Mr Tsakalotou, which I think actually involves the problem. You said, Mr. Chakalote: “We are in custody and commission seven years. We do bad laws, as you did." So you said I'm asking you, so we're leaving the comitology? Bad laws? You're dictating me to a law-enforcement? With the benefit of the parliamentary procedure? One more thing: in the explanatory memorandum to the fourth memorandum, that is, on 18 May, when the majority of SYRIZA voted - ANY the additional measures of EUR 5 billion against pensioners, against those who will be taxed at a monthly rate of EUR 500 - then you said, Minister, that these are the last measures and it is necessary to vote on the fourth memorandum to start the debate on medium-term debt arrangements. I ask, what has changed since then? Can I remind you more of SYRIZA Ministers and MPs? I think they'd rather forget them themselves. We are now coming again for a mini-speaking commemorative memorial through an unacceptable parliamentary procedure, which is not just a parliamentary procedure. And I ask Mr Tsakalotos and I ask for a commitment, a guarantee, one - how can I say it? - fixed placement, if debt, quantitative relaxation, if the exit into the market passes through the current legalisation of this sanction for fish, then tell us that, through the draft fish law, we will take these three major objectives. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Please, ladies and gentlemen. Tell us and we will tell you "good fishing" and possibly help you as long as you guarantee it. But I'm afraid the government's nets are holes. Two more small issues, but of importance. It really is annoying when you see the negotiators decide to tell only the SYRIZA MPs where the negotiation is going and the rest of them are left in the dark. So you're coming now after you've spent hours with the SYRIZA MPs and you tell us "we've cleaned up in five hours". However, a second issue is this and I would like to address Mr Loverdos: you are wrong, Mr Loverdos, who called the majority political pistols. These are water guns. They're unbelievable, and they're being voted on. The normal and genuine 'political pistols' in the good sense, so that I do not challenge Mr Pappas for some of his fellowships and want to take the floor again - please allow me - are raised through parliamentary procedures that are correct, where everyone will be able to place themselves, so that they can also give their constituents, their voters, the electors, a signal of what they really are assembling, because the vote seems to be what you are in favour of rather than the blah. Mr President, we are insisting on unconstitutionalism, and we are also calling for a full list to be opened so that everyone under the sun can be placed for the new bad measures that will affect the lives of millions of Greeks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u184	Thank you, too. Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u185	Thank you, Mr President. Is it a matter of urgency that the Constitution has been made aware of or has it been done? The Constitution is well-consciously drafted, Mr President, and it has set out the procedure for discussing the bills. In this sense, therefore, we should follow the provisions of the Constitution in the way it is discussed. In today's debate we have a ratification of an international convention, no one disputes it. However, we also have a number of amendments, which are inconsistent with Cyrus, which does not open up a debate. I'll remind you of something I've said before. The only body that has the power to decide whether or not a piece of legislation and the interna corporis of the House is the House itself. Why have I explained this, Mr President? For the reason that the courts are not allowed to enter Parliament's legislature. It is therefore called on Parliament today to decide how to debate and vote on these amendments, which, on the one hand, have no connection, so there is a question of violation of the Constitution, because when we call an amendment, they must be consistent with the main text, which is the Convention of the Committee on Fisheries, and on the other hand, Parliament must decide how this is to be discussed. It will therefore be discussed with normal procedure, even in economic terms. What do I mean? If there is a list of speakers, there should be time to place Members in comfort, which is required because of the importance of the issues. I'll say something else. I made use of the concept in economic terms, Mr President, which, if I may remind you, is a church term. When the Church wants to solve a problem and is bound by certain strict rules of the universal meetings, it finds a solution to the economy. We should therefore also find the solution in this House today to the economic regulation of the matter, since there are amendments to it, and since the government majority I know that it will decide on their debate and their promotion, in economic terms, to open up the list of speakers and, if you like, to give the time to be given to Members to discuss. In addition, I would like to remind you of something else, Mr President. In this case, there is no question of time. As these provisions come up, Friday and some Saturday hours are sufficient, since the government invokes urgency. I'll finish by saying that. We must not stand by a formalist interpretation of the question of Rule 100 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. It has been overcome not only by practice, but also by talking about the correct interpretation of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, since specific objections to the constitutionality of a draft law may be raised at first reading, here we are at the stage of the first debate on the amendments, which are not mere legislative improvements, as Mr Paradoxopoulos said, and I disagree with that view, because they are legislative measures which are self-evident. They do not come with a basic piece of legislation, for example, pension and say that the debate on the route has shown a need for improvements to the already proposed law. They come as autonomous legislation and therefore, firstly, the objections of constitutionality, the objections of constitutionality are admissible, if you want us to use legal terminology, secondly, they are essential and I think you should provoke the vote so that the House can decide on the way in which the debate is to take place. But I will say something else, Mr President, before I finish. I think it is more a matter for the Bureau, because the House will be called upon to decide whether or not to vote on the proposals. The Bureau, however, has the opportunity to decide on the seat, in order to use a legal condition, to open a list and a debate, so that the House can decide soberly and calmly. I therefore think that we should not tolerate an infringement of Article 73 of the Constitution. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u186	Mr Paradoxopoulos has asked for the floor for a minute, obviously to say something about what Mr Denkias said. Mr. Paraskevi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u187	I am going to do a very short second, because criminals, Mr. Dendias, sometimes too short, are not just far away. I think this debate is taking place in an environment and in a time period where there has been constant death 'why are you late with the evaluation?' At the moment, the cold 'why are you making it fast?' There have obviously been some comments on these matters in the context of the consultation. Shouldn't we be acting quickly? I really think that all the issues that have been raised - deserving of attention - of course - can be dealt with in legislative terms. I referred to Rule 73(2). Mr Loverdos had referred to Articles 73 to 76, but I think that the issues relating to Article 74(5) which you raised, on the one hand, in the event of a dispute, are under the discretion of the House, so here we are called on to decide on them and to find ways of dealing with them, which will facilitate the negotiation of the country, and on the other hand, I would say that here too, as a legislative issue, they can be resolved in a rather simple way: with a revision of the title of legislation, which shows that, beyond ratification, there are other contents and therefore will not be a subject of relevance. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u188	Mr Ahtsoglou, Minister for Labour, has been asked to speak on the issue of constitutionality. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u189	In short, I will essentially repeat the arguments put forward by both Mr Paradise and the Minister of Finance. There are two distinct issues. One issue is the issue of the procedure, and there is Article 74 of the Constitution and the constitutionality of the procedure, which is obviously before the debate. It is a very distinct matter of constitutionality on the content of the legislative provisions, and that is where Rule 100 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure responds. Rule 100 of the Rules of Procedure does not concern the procedure, it concerns the constitutionality of content. Now, with regard to the procedure, the main problem that exists or may be raised here has to do with the relevance of the amendment to the draft law under discussion today. There is indeed a lack of relevance here, but I think it is a common parliamentary practice to introduce such amendments, especially when there is a urgency. The urgency of the procedure seems to me to argue on this, namely, how this introduction of the amendment is justified due to the narrow margin of time available to the Greek Government. In this context, in view of this, the other option - and that is why Mr Paradoxopoulos argued - of making it through an act of legislative content I think it would not help this debate, because it would not allow an ex ante debate to be held at the moment. It can be done because the Conference of Presidents decided that there would be an ad hoc discussion procedure on the provisions put forward by means of amendments. Why do we think this procedure is sufficient? This is, in fact, only one provision which is essential and indeed needs to be discussed. It is this provision by which pension increases for another year in 2022. All other amendments are of a purely legislative nature. So they don't need any further discussion. All that is essential is that of the pension freeze and we think that a process such as today can give time to discuss this provision. In any case, Rule 74(5) states that in the event of a dispute the House shall decide. For pension arrangements to say that in fact Article 73 of the Constitution states that pension arrangements cannot be laid down in laws designed to regulate other matters. However, the Court of Auditors has said that the constitutional requirement is respected when the pension arrangements are included in a separate chapter and there is a specific reference to the title of the bill. This will be done with a legislative improvement that Mr Apostolos will now present. In other words, reference to pension arrangements will be entered under the title of the bill and a separate chapter will be made. Therefore, this will be the way to overcome this problem. In addition, the Court of Auditors said that we could go beyond this.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u190	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u191	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u192	Two minutes. The constitutional or non-constitutional process has been completed. Now we're on the spot...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u193	Mr President, may I have the floor on a point of order?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u194	No more conversation, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u195	You gave Mr. Paradise the floor twice...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u196	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate under Rule 100(2) of the Rules of Procedure on the unconstitutionality of the bill has been completed. Accepting the objection of unconstitutionalism, i.e. that the bill is not in line with the Constitution, and the doubts raised, I would ask them to rise. [[Responding to the objection]] Evidently, the fewer were raised. The objection of unconstitutionalism, as well as the doubts, are therefore rejected. We shall now proceed to the point raised by Mr Theocharopoulos regarding the opening of the list. I would remind you that the decision at the Conference of Presidents is to complete the debate at 17.00 hours so that we have a two-hour margin for the roll-call vote. I should also like to remind you that, in accordance with the decision of the Conference of Presidents, the procedure chosen is as follows: in the conventions there are five minutes of talks and if there are amendments, five minutes too. This opens the list and places the rapporteurs and the special speakers for 15 minutes. Then we go into the speaker circle. As we have said, there are fourteen colleagues, five from SYRIZA, three from New Democracy, one from the other parties and an independent MEP. Parliament's representatives also have the floor. They have already asked for the floor and for the floor. So we're talking about a very wide-ranging procedure. However, because Mr Theoharopoulos, Mr Amyras and other colleagues have raised the subject, this is also addressed in this House's judgment. The Bureau insists on this proposal and raises the question raised by Mr Theocharopoulos and the other Members, in order to open the list and as far as it goes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u197	Mr President, may I have the floor to clarify my proposal?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u198	It's well known and understandable.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u199	Just five seconds, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u200	You don't have to. No, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u201	I suggested that the list should be opened until it goes, even tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u202	Yeah, okay, understand. Open as long as it goes. Brilliant!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u203	But you're cutting pensions and you don't want to go on Saturday?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u204	Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the vote by lifting. Does this House accept the proposal made by our fellow Members? In accepting the proposal, namely those in favour of opening the list and continuing the meeting until tomorrow, to raise the hand. [[They raise their hand by accepting the proposal]] Apparently the fewer raised their hand. The proposal by the honourable Members is therefore rejected. So we're going on the way we've voted and...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u205	The Members will not speak, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u206	Are we not going to register at all, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u207	It has been given with the agreement of the parties, after consultation, a list of all...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u208	But, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u209	Mr. Kutsuko, now, don't make any impressions. A list of parties has been given in agreement and implementation of the decision of the Conference of Presidents. [[Noise from the Wing of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR]] Please. You have expressed our opinion and voted.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u210	Not even the Members who voted against, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u211	I said at the outset that, after prejudging the procedure - we have already chosen it - we will give the floor to the expedient Minister, Mr. Apostleus...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u212	Mr President, I would like to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u213	Mr. Amyras, you don't have the floor. Mr Apostolos has the floor, and then the floor will be given to the ministers in order to develop the amendments proposed in the bill under discussion.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u214	Mr President, you with another twenty-eight Members have tabled an amendment to the memorandum...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u215	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u216	Mr President, after the discussion which has developed and the debate that has taken place, there is a legislative improvement in the bill, adding the phrase 'pension regulations and other provisions'. At the same time, the architecture of the bill changes. I am making this specific legislative improvement.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u217	I would ask you to distribute the legislative improvement. Mr Papagelopoulos, the Deputy Minister for Justice, has the floor in order to develop the amendment with little and then the other ministers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u218	Thank you, Mr President. Amendment No 1062 amends paragraphs 5, 13,14 and 15 of Article 959a of the Code of Civil Procedure, which was added by Article 59(6).
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u219	Minister, just a moment, please. Ladies and gentlemen, if you are so kind as to have some peace in listening to the proposed amendments that we shall be voting on. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u220	The second subparagraph of paragraph 3 and the first subparagraph of Article 965(5) and the first subparagraph of paragraph 1 of Article 1005 of the Code of Civil Procedure shall also be amended. I think it is a painless amendment and it will not cause the reactions of counter-population. Because the change made in the amendment consists in the fact that the fee for the use of electronic auction systems is paid only by the successful tenderer, while according to the applicable framework, every candidate bidder has had to bear on it. That is why the relevant provisions for the payment of the auction are amended so that the successful tenderer is now obliged to pay together with the auction and the end of the year. The amount of the fee will be fixed by a ministerial decision to be adopted after the vote on this amendment within the next few days. It is also regulated that part of the end-use fee is attributed to the FAO. Such a change shall ensure the uninterrupted participation of several bidders in the electronic auction, allowing a larger auction for the benefit of creditors and, ultimately, of the debtor. Any question of delaying the amendment may be answered that we are within the timeframe, in accordance with Article 60(6) of Law 4492/2017. Paragraphs 8 to 14 provide that it shall enter into force from 31 July 2017. I would mention this in order to inform the parties concerned in good time, to adapt the electronic system and to ensure that it operates uninterruptedly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u221	Thank you very much for the Deputy Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Mr. Papagelopoulos. The Minister for the Interior has the floor, Mr Panagiotis Skourletis, to develop the amendment concerning the bill under discussion.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u222	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment tabled has essentially two parts. One is an obligation for the candidates to inform themselves of the expenditure directly to the Audit Committee and not the credit institutions to which they open their accounts. The second part of the amendment concerns the issues of the funding of the parties. Without amending the corresponding provision which was included in the last multi-annual draft that we voted on in the House, it clarifies the terms of the so-called 'unaccessible amount', which can reach up to 50% of the annual expenditure on the lending of the parties. I would like to say that this amendment actually improves the existing status of lending up to now, because it increases it from 40% to 50%. We are talking about loans which are served and obviously arise with responsibility and understanding from the respective banking institutions. This provision does not concern loans which are not served, where there is the so-called 'indebtedness', as you remember from the bill - not the amendment here - remains at 10%. And this was judged for very specific reasons. At the same time, I would also like to put forward a legislative improvement on the explanatory statement, which is exactly in the direction of what I mentioned before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u223	Thank you, Mr. Panagiotis Skourletis. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, thirty-six students and students and three educational attendants from the 2nd School of Lixouri. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I give the floor now to the Minister of Finance, Mr Euklidis Tsakalotos, to mention the change in the mechanism of Law 4472/2017 on financial adjustment. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u224	I do not know, Mr President, whether colleagues and colleagues want to give me five minutes to inform them where we are with the negotiation.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u225	I think it's useful. You can have this time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u226	Ladies and gentlemen, the basic point we should explain is why we did not accept the last proposal of 22 May. There were several versions of the communiqué. The main thing was not that there was no progress on several points. In other words, both on the debt side and on the development aid side one can say that steps have been taken. In other words, there have been compromises on a proposal that would give the Greek economy hope to build on the shift that appears to exist in the economy. Our main problem that we did not accept was that there the IMF said that, with the measures taken so far, the IMF does not consider debt to be viable. And he said it with white and black. He didn't say it, like, as a suspicion. He said it very clearly. And we thought it was a strange IMF position, because when you negotiate a programme with a country, and then you put 1% growth in your calculations for forty, fifty, years, why did you negotiate such a programme if the outcome of this programme wasn't or is it not to increase growth rates in the next thirty, forty, fifty years? Of course, someone will tell me that it was also a pressure on Europeans. When you have so low growth, you understand that more debt relief must be given to make it sustainable. Since then, the President of Parliament has said so, and other speakers have said so, and I have said so in my brief, first intervention - it is multidimensional. We are fighting for more guarantees for our development policy and for funding development policy. As you know, when you have an indicator that is a debt for growth, a way to make the debt sustainable is to increase a great deal, namely to increase the denominator, and thus to reduce the fraction. So, that's one pillar. The second pillar is to put pressure on more clarity on the measures taken by Europeans at the end of the programme, namely either push back the interest rate payment, or increase the average maturity of Greek bonds, especially in the big part - the EFSF - of our debt. And the communiqué that comes out of this should be a communiqué that, as we say, has a clear solution and gives the prospect through the QE that then has access to the markets. Because, as we said in our first speech, the basic strategy of the government is to get out of the programme. And to get out of the program, it must be able to convince the markets. So I think you all understand the importance. That's the strategy. I think you've all understood that serious discussions are taking place at all levels. I must tell you that the picture created by the Greek people on 23 and 24 May of almost all the press in Greece - so it was exploitable by the anti-population forces - had nothing to do with the international press. None! I challenge you all to read the most important British, French, American, German, Italian newspapers and to see what they wrote on 23 and 24 May, to whom they blamed the responsibility that was not a good solution, to whom they praised for their attitude and to see if it has anything to do with what was written as the main direction from the Greek media. I think I have explained to you what the government's strategy is. I really do not think it takes more than five seconds to explain it to you. Where in the explanatory statement it says that if it is necessary - and no one believes in the Greek Government and the European institutions - that tax should be tax-free, instead of being analogous, it will be on a pro rata basis. I think it doesn't change anything at all. I think it's controll freaks - I don't know how to say it to well Greek, nobody helps me translate this - and many of the institutions have a very long obsession with looking after every detail. I don't think it needs to be said any more than that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u227	Thank you, Minister. Mrs Efi Ahtsoglou, Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, has the floor for the part of pension arrangements and collective bargaining. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u228	Ladies and gentlemen, we are in a week before the critical Eurogroup meeting, which will have the task of discussing and clarifying the medium-term debt relief measures, which is a key issue for the country and the economy. For our part, we have made it clear that we can no longer go uncertain. The Minister of Finance has explained to you why the last draft of the Eurogroup declaration has not been accepted on our part. It was a project that we thought was lacking the necessary clarity and did not provide the necessary space and corridor for the Greek economy to inspire the recovery that has taken place over the last few years. It is a recovery which - incidentally - is also reflected in the labour market, because we saw unemployment indicators falling to 22.5%. However, we have also seen from the ERGANS system having a record of 15 years in creating new jobs in the private sector. We are talking about more than two hundred thousand jobs in the first five months of 2017. We are now bringing specific amendments to this effect, in which the prerequisites for the second assessment are now being finalised, so that none of the creditors and the institutions will have any pretext for throwing the ball to the Greek Government and say that something has not been done, so that they have no pretext for not discussing what has to be discussed, namely the medium-term measures to regulate public debt. What we are presenting today on the part of the Ministry of Labour is the following: The first amendment is essential. It's about the pension freeze for 2022. I would remind you that, with the recently adopted law, the positive adjustment of pensions provided for in Law No.4387/2016 was frozen until 2021. This freeze will be extended for another year. It's not a cut. It's an increase in pensions for one year. It is a measure that comes to Parliament, because achieving the primary surpluses of 3.5% of GDP, as explained in the last Eurogroup, should be maintained until 2022. It was therefore necessary to have this regulation in order to prevent the International Monetary Fund from saying that the primary surplus is not achieved, even in accordance with its own rules. The second amendment is purely legal. I would remind you that in the matter of collective bargaining, with the recently adopted law, the two authorities, the more favourable regulation and that of expansion, were disconnected from the Medium-term Financial Strategy Framework - their suspension was linked to it and was therefore indefinitely - and it was stated that their suspension would last until the end of the current Financial Adjustment Programme, namely August 2018. This is the substance of the device, which does not change. Legally, the words ‘the duration of the medium-term framework’ shall be replaced by ‘... by the end of the programme’. In fact, we repeat all the provision, but in terms of content you will see that in the explanatory statement the date for the end of the suspension remains there, that is on August 20, 2018. On the occasion of today's debate, I should like to make just one misinterpretation to say that in the next few months there will be further consultation with the social partners on the issue of trade union rights and the modernisation of the relevant legislation. In the last changes, there have been partial differences between the social partners, which are useful to end through dialogue. This is not about today's debate, but I had to inform the House. Therefore, with the amendments we are tabling today, we are completing all the prerequisites for the second evaluation. It is obvious that Greece has complied with the agreed commitments, has implemented all of its commitments and has already done more than it should have done in order not to jeopardise the completion of the programme. It is now the turn of our lenders and partners to do what they have to do, what is their legal, moral and political obligation to regulate the Greek debt. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u229	Thank you to the Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity Mr Ephi Achtsioglou. The presentation of the amendments to the draft law we are discussing has been completed. We start with the list of rapporteurs and special speakers. Time, as we said, is 15 minutes. SYRIZA MEP Mr Stavros Arahovitis has the floor to place himself on behalf of SYRIZA for the bill under discussion and the amendments accompanying it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u230	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in this draft law, as amended by the Minister's legislative improvement, which is the ratification of the amended agreement on the establishment of the General Fisheries Commission for the Mediterranean, of public pension regulations and other provisions, the five amendments proposed by the Minister and accepted by the Minister responsible for Rural Development were added. These are five amendments which need to be voted on today in order to complete the prerequisites for the completion of the second evaluation and to reach agreement in next week's Eurogroup. Acknowledging that the way in which amendments to draft laws concerning sanctions are being introduced is not the right way of legislating, we should take into account, before starting to dispel criticism, that in the last eight years the country has not experienced a normality. And this loss of normality is not the responsibility of the present government. It is the PASOK and the New Democracy that put the country in the adventure of the memorials, but it is the SYRIZA - Independent Greek government that will get it out of its adventure. Remember the legislation of previous years, until 2014, with the legislative acts, where prerequisites were legislated that did not even pass by the House. They were only after a long period of time for their ratification, without any debate on the substance of the matter before they were voted and implemented. However, on this point I should like to make a brief comment on the substance of this draft law before I refer more specifically to the amendments. The General Fisheries Committee for the Mediterranean is now called upon to vote on a new institution, but an effort to improve the General Fisheries Council for the Mediterranean, which has already existed since 1952. Then, within the framework of the UN International Food and Agriculture Organisation, Greece, Yugoslavia, Italy, France, Britain, Lebanon and Turkey agreed on the recommendation of this Council, which would be the task of promoting the development, conservation, rational management and exploitation of living marine species in the Mediterranean region and the adjacent seas. With a view to increasing the efficiency of the institution, 50 years after the establishment of the Committee, a two-year process of evaluation of its performance was carried out and necessary amendments to the agreement were identified. Following negotiations between the Member States of the Committee, which took place in Athens, the revised Agreement was adopted by the Committee, adopted by the Council of the International Food and Agriculture Organisation and entered into force in 2014. The aim of the agreement is to ensure sustainable management at biological, social, economic and environmental levels of living marine resources, as well as sustainable development in aquaculture, ambitious target and more timely than ever, as fish stocks are dramatically reduced, while climate change forcefully requires the introduction and installation of alien species into our seas, displacement of local species. The activities of the Committee shall be extended to areas such as the adoption of multiannual management plans, actions to combat illegal and unregulated fishing, to ensure the collection and dissemination of information, and the development of training and training activities as detailed in Article 8 of this Agreement. Finally, the Committee has a considerable budget independent, which can be managed with relative flexibility in order to achieve its objectives and objectives. I therefore believe that voting in favour of the draft law on ratification of the agreement should be universal from all the parties in this House, as only benefits can arise for our country. As far as the imported amendments are concerned, the first amendment, under the general number 1058 and specific 64 of the Ministry of Finance, concerns the recasting of the first subparagraph of paragraph 2 of Article 15 of Law 4472/2017. This is a recast which does not actually alter the substance of the regulation that has been introduced, but it is necessary for reasons of clearer wording and legal certainty. It is necessary to clarify the conditions and the procedure under which the necessary adaptations to Article 10 of that law may be made in the event of a frontal application provided for in the first subparagraph of that paragraph. In addition, according to the report of the General Accounting Office of the State, no financial impact on the budget is caused. The second amendment is the general number 1054 and specific 65 of the Ministry of Labour concerning free collective bargaining. The proposed amendment is more clearly defined - verbal recasting in fact - that, until the end of the economic policy programme, the provision of Article 10(2) of Law 1876/1990 applies, while the suspension of the provisions of Article 11(2) and (3) of the same law also applies until then. In other words, it is essentially recast, it is replaced by the words 'for the duration of the implementation of the mid-term financial policy framework', to be clear, in the words 'the economic policy programme'. The proposed provision now makes it clearer to reinstate the principle of more favourable regulation, in particular in the event of a serial collective labour contract with an operational function, which is the most favourable to the worker. This reverses the deregulation of the system of collective bargaining made by the interventions of Law 4024/2011, with particularly negative consequences for both workers and society and the national economy. It's a law that really dismantled labour relations. The amendment under general number 1060 and a special 66 of the Ministry of Labour also concerns the amendment of pension provisions. In particular, it recommends the transfer of one more year, until 1-1-2023, i.e. the start of the adjustment of the main pensions. The benefit of pensioners from the expected growth of the country's economy in GDP growth is postponed for another year, but in order to save resources for another year, which will be directed to cover other social needs, which unfortunately the winter Greek society needs. At the same time, it is also a constitutional obligation for the government to protect the social and insurance systems of the country and is the only amendment that actually produces a budgetary effect in favour of the state budget. Amendment No 1061, and Amendment No 67 by the Ministry of Interior, concerns the amendment of the provisions on the financing of parties and candidates. In particular, it is now necessary to notify the candidate's opening accounts by him to the Audit Committee instead of the credit institution which has been in force so far. There is also a restriction - and here is the important - on the level of the state grant which can be made to guarantee a party's loan. Control and restriction is given to past phenomena, where the State grant was guaranteed twice and three times for different loans to different financial institutions. Finally, Amendment No 1062 and a special number 68 of the Ministry of Justice concern the amendment of certain provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure on electronic auctions. This amendment does not introduce a new fee, but states that the existing fee for the use of electronic auctions is paid by the successful tenderer. It shall also be adapted to the content of the ministerial decision which it follows from setting out the specific operating conditions of the systems. Ladies and gentlemen, the adoption of these amendments is a final step in order to complete the list of prerequisites for the completion of the evaluation. After this point, the Greek side will now have fulfilled its obligations regarding the requirements of the programme. Furthermore, it is now on the side of our creditors and partners to make their own obligations, to proceed with the decision to disburse the intended dose and to discuss constructively and decisively to resolve the issue of Greek debt and the country's accession to the Quantitative Relaxation Programme. The decision time has come and there is no excuse for anyone. The procrastination and prolongation of the outstanding is not good for the Greek economy, and they all know that. Now that we really have the first signs of real recovery, now that for the first time the sacrifices of the Greek people who, after so many years, seem to at last bear no one - but no one - have the right to stand in the way. This is the first time that we seem to be so close to reaching a real agreement on the settlement of the Greek debt issue, not a sustainability certificate but a real settlement. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Ms. CHRISTOPOULOUou, takes over the President's seat.]] We, all this time, culminating in today's legislature, have done our duty with hard work and targeted promotion. It is the turn of our partners and creditors to do their own duty. It is also the turn of the Opposition, however, to understand the criticality of moments and to contribute to the national effort. It must make the ultimate effort to self-criticize the situation in which it has led the country in recent years, the years of its governance, through scandals in health, armaments and everywhere. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u231	I now call on Mr Brutsi, the special speaker of the New Democracy, to step up his work for 15 minutes. Here, Mr. Brutsi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u232	Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately the SYRIZA Members today in their attitude have confirmed the government's position to hold this debate. The history of the future will record it as the most humiliating process in Parliament from 2000 onwards. I say this because since 2010, and after the national necessity that you invoked, we have lived, experienced, dealt with, but such a process, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, has never taken place in previous years, from 2010 onwards. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] In a national agreement - ratification for fisheries, you are going to add financial interventions to a memorandum. That is the first point. The second point concerns the abolition of committees. This debate could take place in an environment also provided for in the Rules of Procedure of the House, namely to discuss in committee and to come today with the urgent role that the Rules of Procedure of the House give, to vote or not to pass the bill. You got over that, too. This is an originality for parliamentary data. But the third is the most humiliating, what is essentially humiliating and dispersing our national Parliament. With your attitude and vote, the SYRIZA Members, you vote and "vote" within ten days. This has no precedent. Only with you have a precedent. You have voted and you have 'expressed' vote. Such process of parliamentary humiliation has never been carried out in the past for a parliamentary group such as those that you are doing today. In fact - so people know what you are bringing - the content of the debate and the way it is done in this way is nothing but the well-known SYRIZA approach that, on the one hand, attempts with communication tactics to alter reality and truth, but when it is for parliamentary procedure, people try not to know the truth, not to know the reality. And here, that is exactly the way this approach is done today. So what are you doing today and what are you going to vote on? You will actually vote three things. Firstly, you vote in practice that you are legislating and intervening for after 2020. In the Memorandum we remained until 2020. You are now voting for after 2020, as you are intervening in the pension scheme for 2022. Secondly, you are voting for primary surpluses for 2022. So you confirm the five years of primary surplus of 3.5%. That is what you are confirming today, that is, for five years, 3.5% of the primary surplus. Thirdly, and perhaps most essentially, it is confirmed by the amendment on labour that the expectation of the end of the crisis or the Memorandum of Understanding adopted by SYRIZA on 20-8-2018, this expectation is completely abolished. Let's go to 2022 and see. That's what you're voting on today. That is what you confirm by your vote. Now we're going to the point of things. Ladies and gentlemen, I am unhappy to say for once from the Stepma of this House, but also from the public speeches, that despite the fact that the insurance system of the country was illiterate, it was galantomous, it had problems, it became budgetary efforts in recent years, it is the first time in the history of our country that Greece has no insurance system and does not have the responsibility of SYRIZA. And there is no insurance system, not because there is complete chaos with the responsibility of the Government and the political leadership of the Ministry of Labour. We have shown his responsibilities. Lost of hundreds of thousands of insurers who find themselves out of their way and listen to the principal of HEDH say that the problems will be solved after thirty years. If this is not courageous and insolence to the Greek state, what is it? It is that in practice all the pillars of the arguments that you SYRIZA MPs, the government, Mr. Tsipras, have had to break down during the previous period, Mr. Katrugalos, who made it with fine jumps from the Ministry of Labour, but left his successor, said and supported as a reform an insurance which: First, his income is falling apart. There is no prospect of this system. Why are they falling apart? Because this system is being undermined, it is undermining itself. And for the first time in the time our country's finances, while until now the pathogen that we faced in the economic environment was tax evasion, the second is now coming, everyone is inclined to avoid the extermination contributions, the unprecedented, the unprecedented, that Mr Katrugalos and the SYRIZA Members and the government called a "tax mark". This class mark undermines the insurance, it dissolves it. And with mathematical certainty soon it will collapse, Mr. Petersburg. But be sure we'll change it soon, just like I'll tell you right away. The third is the personal difference. It's the big fraud of the personal difference. Do you remember, gentlemen of SYRIZA, when you voted for Mr.4387/2016 here and Mr. Tsipras? The only reform. What reform? We're bringing the personal difference. And we told you, the personal difference is a trap, a trap that SYRIZA had drunken. The parliamentarians may not know it, but the government had agreed that it would be abolished and coming and lying. And you voted for the lies, and you Members of the government represent you. And finally it turned out that our position was the real one. The personal difference was the trap of pensioners and workers. Personal differences have now exceeded 3 trillion in terms of reductions together with 250 million. And there are some 2 billion left, and I believe that you have agreed that you will finally close the gap between the old and the new ones. So Greece doesn't have an insurance system. They are all trying to avoid these extermination contributions. Those who think, I hear the argument that some pay less contributions, be aware, because you invoke studies of friends of the New Democracy, friends really, after the reorganisation of the last intervention, the fourth memorandum that insurance contributions are no longer counted as a deduction from income to calculate the new ones, the previous ones, the previous study, the one you call upon and invoke by the government is completely abolished. The vast majority will pay more contributions than in the past, but the most important thing is that the productive and scientific part of society will be exterminated, which is currently trying in every way to avoid input. And all this is happening today with another intervention of yours in insurance, which is supposed to cancel the last argument for the construction of the SYRIZA insurance insurance, which was about to do with the prospect of increases in pensions. It was the last argument that you said that through the change of inflation and through the growth that will come to the place we will increase annually to pensioners. Today, this intervention is confirmed that this is a dream of summer night. The last argument is rejected and that actually brings a reduction. Because it's a reduction. This is not the argument Mrs Ahtsioglu has said that it is not a reduction in non-inflation. Of course it is a reduction of EUR 250 million. Greece has no insurance system. You have huge responsibilities. You took the 310 million of the insurance intervention we had launched on e-mail Hardouvelis and made it EUR 10 billion. This price is being paid today by the pensioners and the workers who have believed you, because of your own inadequacy and incompetence. That is why our position is that the insurance must be changed. Greece must acquire an insurance policy that is fair, transparent, which invites people to be insured and, of course, to be more rewarding and to reduce the extermination contributions. That's what we'll do and soon. The second part relates to the most critical amendment which you are discussing today and which you will be voting on shortly. It is the amendment that I call it 'Vaterlo Tsipras - Ahtsoglu' or, if you like, the greatest deception of workers. I remember the Prime Minister being at a central night interview on a channel and saying that "all right, we did everything we could. Measures will come, but at the end of the day - it is the victory of the workers." I remember the Minister of Labour too. Well, you're not protecting the Prime Minister a little, you're not letting him know. How do you leave him like this, Minister? But when you yourself come out and say from this Step, from the Step of the House, cheating on the workers, cheating on your parliamentary team that you won a great victory at work, what was the victory? That you would bring in, supposedly, and immediately implement a law already in place, in 4024/11, which on your own responsibility was not implemented because of the change of the previous government, and which you were supposed to act immediately. And what did you do? In order for the workers to hear it, for the unemployed to hear it and for your parliamentary group to hear it. I'm opening a parentheses. For a long time deception. I remember ten to twelve days ago when the fourth memorandum was passed, not a single word about collective redundancies by Mrs Ahtsoglu. Not a word! You are the government that has brought the total release of collective redundancies in the most humiliating way, without any control. This government is and you don't have the courage to admit it, ask for an apology. At least one of your MPs who have deceived them, your right. But by the workers? You've brought the toughest arrangement we've ever had, which we're against. We made the Supreme Labour Council. You have personally heard me say that I am against this perforated and antiquated conception of the administrative veto of the Minister, which has cost the Greek economy. But what you did was the most extreme and you brought it, you voted when you denounced and criticized us for things we never brought and would never bring them. So the workers listen to today's. In the process of voting for the fourth memorandum, a very insidious game was played at the expense of the truth and the disinformation of the Greek Parliament. The government has attempted by a method of changing the essence of things. He brought another provision to the law, to deceive the foreign and other provision in the explanatory statement, to deceive the interior. Externally he said that we will never harm the relationship between business contracts, in relation to sectoral contracts, leave things as they are. Inside, through the recital, he said, basically, that we 20-8-2018 are changing and that there will now be the influx of the branches and that the sectoral conventions will prevail. That's what you did. You were caught, however, by the ears, because this deception seemed to have been heard, and we - and the same night, the Minister of Labour of the country brought you an amendment and changed the explanatory statement, which is not compatible with Parliament's Rules of Procedure. You have changed the explanatory statement, in which you have essentially put this provision that you are bringing today. But that was not enough. This is the definition of the humiliating process of a ministry's political leadership. I don't know how easy you can stand and look at your MPs, when you keep cheating on them, when you break the procedure of the House and, above all, let us leave the House - the workers, who are supposed to be the social field of SYRIZA's sensitivity! Perpetual deception? And today you have the courage, Minister, to relegate a provision which you brought out twelve days ago, with the most degrading procedure that may have a Minister, that is to say, to bring such a provision to the vote again. There's an apology, isn't there? There's an apology, isn't there? Isn't there a philanthropy? Dignity isn't there? I do not want to do this personally for Mrs Ahtsoglu, a member of the government, as a whole for the government. This is a general picture of the government. Ladies and gentlemen, this is what you will vote on today. With this degrading process, unfortunately, which has no precedent in Parliament's time. These will vote for pensioners, the three million pensioners today, all of the workers who do not see any prospect, see the deception on your face. It's okay. Rather, it is a problem, but for you at least, this is what you know, is recorded in the subconscious of the world, which has understood what SYRIZA will say and you can be sure that very soon the Greek people will give the necessary solution, which is the most exotic of the economy and society. It is well known that SYRIZA will invest, as he has invested so far in the next period, in an environment of national division. It starts through the country's worthy and institutional decline, from municipalities and universities, to society. You will attempt to divide society, as you did. The New Democracy, since its establishment until now and in the future, defends the national unity, the unity of the Greek people. A module that is necessary and is the adhesive to get out of this crisis. This unity and this party the Greek people will approve very soon when we go to elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u233	Mr Jellonis has the floor from the PASOK - DIMAR.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u234	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, when we discussed in the Committee on Production and Trade the specific ratification of the International Agreement on the General Committee on Fisheries for the Mediterranean - although this is an agreement prepared by the previous government in May 2014 and to be ratified after two and a half years - I stressed at the end of my speech that, although I agree with the ratification of this two-year agreement, I would like to look at the vote, because I would like to see in plenary how many amendments will come with the fish, Minister! That's where I didn't lie. Along with the bill, by ratifying the agreement on sea bass and ticks, you have also brought amendments that take hundreds of millions of people away from the Greek people and especially the weakest, pensioners and low-wage workers. In fact, we have seen the unprecedented one, the co-presidents want to take the floor away from them and not put them on such a serious issue. At the same time, we heard here at the beginning of the position by the Ministers that 'you did it then, now our turn'. "The association of powers..." says, "...was against you, it is against us, and leave the demagogue inside you." Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA - ANEL, the Greek people have no memory of goldfish, regardless of whether we are discussing today a fishing bill. Did you object without any moral barrier to the most extreme, dangerous and appalling populism, and today you come to tell us in this Chamber about responsibility? Today's sitting with the tabling of the five amendments proves the vateros of the negotiations of the codecision, which have now become the bridge of Arta. The Minister said: 'Whee and alas unless we sign the second evaluation agreement by February. If we go in May, we are destroyed." May I remind you what the Minister of Finance has repeatedly said about dutyfree duty, that he would resign and anything else? These amendments really show that the government has the absolute benefit of it, but also through it and the Greek Parliament, which has been called upon within ten days to correct what it has voted as the fourth memorandum. He was right at that time as the Director of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, Mr Zachariadis, when he unreservedly confessed that you are being taken by the creditors to write the bills. The tabling of the five amendments Thursday night by SYRIZA - ANEL shows the panic of the government and its anxiety that the thigh of another failure of the government will not be severely heard. Why Thursday night? Because you know very well that today when most Members of Parliament are talking about they are gone. Last night the amendments were tabled and today at noon the Greek people will go for summer baths. So whatever the media plays, it won't be heard. It won't cross what you're bringing, what you've been forced to bring back. From where you used extreme expressions toward the previous governments - I will not remind you of them - now you go dragging and taking what you are given and, unfortunately, you are licking where you were spitting. The accident for you, however, is that they taught you and learned you so well, that they impose changes to the laws that you have recently passed, reading behind the lines of your goggles. Because you do not have the courage to say 'no' and if you have to go home, at least maintaining your dignity, you are struggling to mock not the lenders, but the citizens themselves, selling supposedly successes. We are talking about these amendments which the government has pushed and delayed in the fisheries bill. I really would like to ask where the ties, the tugs, went? Have these been quiet too? The fairy tales are over? What about the good words, the big ones? You no longer convince anyone, because everyone knows that, no matter how much you try to falsify the situation, the truth, the fourth memorandum, your second "plus", it is a fact that the heavy bill for the usual suspects who will be invited to pay it is also a fact. Even worse that those who suffer the measures are the weakest, the ones for whom you are cut that you are trying to ease burdens. But let us now go to the essence of the amendments. These amendments do not constitute the establishment of the remaining prerequisites, but they amend the provisions of Law 4472/2017, which you voted on ten days ago. It is clear that these corrections have been imposed by the creditors after having examined in detail the essential and legal adequacy of the legislation, the government agreed with that law. In this light, the question arises as to whether other measures will be adopted in the light of the new Eurogroup, which has been set up by the government. The first amendment is 1058/64 amending Article 15 of Law 4472/2017. The creditors here clearly take the hand of the Minister of Finance, to point out emphatically and beyond any doubt that the forward application of Article 10 of the Fourth Memorandum on how to reduce the tax on the financial year 2019, which means for the financial result of 2018, and not 2020, will be done, if necessary, by agreement with the International Monetary Fund, the European Commission, the European Central Bank and the European Stability Mechanism. In other words, the article is recast so that it is compatible with its original version, so that there is no translational vagueness in terms of the decisive role of creditors. The vote on this provision, ladies and gentlemen, is one of the most degrading parliamentary procedures during the seven-year crisis. What did the law that had been passed recently say? That the Greek authorities may apply the necessary adjustments to Article 10 in accordance with the International Monetary Fund, the European Commission, the European Central Bank and the European Stability Mechanism. What's changed? Nothing, the Minister told us. The new phrase at the request of the lenders is: ‘The Greek authorities may, in agreement with the International Monetary Fund, the European Commission, the European Central Bank and the European Stability Mechanism, amend the necessary measure in Article 10.’. For anyone who has not noticed it, the 'agreement' first came to the phrase, so that we have no doubt and no misunderstanding as to who is doing the task. In relation now to Amendment No 1060/66 on public pension regulations and amending Article 1 of Law 4472/2017, I would like to remind you that in relation to labour, Minister, you are actually implementing the greatest fantasy of the International Monetary Fund and employers. This is probably another delusion of yours. You have effectively liberated the collective redundancies, restored the anachronistic institution of the employers' competitor, which was abolished by Law 1264/1982, and brought Article 656 of the Civil Code, which was inappropriate. You agreed on the next evaluation of the programme in the autumn, along with the trade union law, to do the one-off strike. And we are now moving on to all this. With this amendment, Amendment No 1060/66 goes one more year, i.e. from 1-1-2023 instead of 1-1-2022, the start of the adjustment of the main pensions based on the change in gross domestic product and the Consumer Price Index. It should be recalled that the extension of pension freeze time for another year is only a few days after the date of the vote on Law 4472/2017, which had extended the freezing until 2022. Since the adoption of Insurance Law 4387/2016 this is the second successive extension - prolongation of the pension freeze, as the Katrugalo in the original form provided for the adjustment of pensions from 1-1-2017. Heavy cargo left by your predecessor, Minister! The Court of Auditors’ opinion accompanying the contested regulation points out that there is no such evidence as the studies invoked concern the original, more favourable to pensioners, norms of L.4387/2016. The government's legislative choice reveals the lack of planning for the pension system. In other words, the Court of Auditors reveals indirectly, but clearly, the systematic vigilance of the SYRIZA-ANEL conflict. Your initial promises for a tenth third pension and the standard of living of pensioners were followed by the rhetoric of a so-called social security system, with uniform rules for all. In these words, because in practice the gradual cut in the EVS for all, the increase in health insurance contributions, the reduction in supplementary pensions, the drastic reduction in new pensions, and already, on the basis of the fourth memorandum, the reduction in personal differences in old pensioners by up to 18%. In these cuts, the new regulation on the freezing of pension increases gives pensioners an additional weight of 250 million, Madam Minister, according to the explanatory statement, which you said earlier that there would be no cut-off. With regard to collective agreements, in accordance with Amendment No 1059/65, I would like to say that the proposal for a free collective bargaining amendment shows in the most embodied way the government's unconditional handover to creditors. To date we have seen cases where creditors have asked for a change of provisions. The Government now begins by proposing the adoption of a provision identical to that which has already been voted on in Law 4472/2017 in order to change the explanatory statement by creditors. The government in search of panic a board of communication salvation built the myth of resurrecting to work regularity. In order to do so, Mrs Ahtsioglou presented the provisions on the principle of prolongation and the principle of more favourable regulation as supposedly conquered. What's the truth? Article 37 of Law 4024/2011 already provides for the reintroduction of the expansion of the sectoral contracts and the initial more favourable regulation on the cumulation of collective agreements from the end of the then current Medium-term Financial Strategy framework, i.e. already in 2016. Instead of applying the law and restoring these fundamental principles of Collective Labour Law in force, SYRIZA did the very opposite. He has introduced to Law 4472/2017 heterogeneous arrangements against workers, recognizing the concept of collective autonomy and the potential for effective and effective benefit of collective bargaining workers, at least until August 2018. Since that provision of Law 4472/2017 not only introduced a favourable regulation, but instead constituted a regression towards the pre-existing regime, the Government sought its activism, with the misleading reference to the explanatory statement that for the first time it was placed at a fixed reference point, after which the fundamental principle of Collective Labour Law, namely the principle of more favourable regulation on the drawing up of collective agreements and the principle of the expansion of sectoral agreements, is in any event restored. But the government had agreed, and of course it was hiding it. The lenders, who seem to know exactly what had been agreed, did not tolerate government bilingualism and demanded the explicit reference in the explanatory statement to the precise content of the agreement. What's that? That the much-advertised reinstatement of working normality is anything other than certain. It shall be conditional on the successful completion of the programme. The government, in abundance and complete retreat, added, as a good student to correct mistakes in his work, an explicit reference to the conclusion of the explanatory statement. The principles of expansion and more favourable regulation will come back after 20 August 2018, if and only if the lenders consider that the programme has been successfully completed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u235	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u236	I shall conclude, Madam President. With regard to the other amendments, I would just like to say on Amendment 1062/68 on electronic auctions that the government in good cooperation with creditors has been continuing to reason 'no house in the hands of owner' since August 2018. In conclusion, I would like to say that you are the longest-lived Memorandum Government. You're the government that you're voting for the memorials two to two. And in this dead end, your choices led the country. You cannot, therefore, in these deadlocks that you have led the country to ask for your accomplices. This is your privilege and the bitter glass, unfortunately, you will drink it by the end!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u237	Mr Shahinides, special speaker of the Golden Dawn, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u238	Thank you, Madam President. We see you're competing who's going to high score on the memorials! Unfortunately, PASOK has them and they follow - they have time ahead - and New Democracy and SYRIZA. What we have heard throughout the process and in the process of unconstitutionalisation of the present ratification and in the amendments was populism and nothing more, populism from all sides. We have heard the SYRIZA rapporteur say that we as government have made our obligations and from now on all depends on our partners. But come on, when the Minister for Finance, Mr Tsakalotos, had repeatedly used it - and this can be seen by any of the Minutes - the phrase 'opposite' in his attempt to support the reason why the amendments on the prerequisites should be voted on immediately. So, which one? Are they our partners or are they opponents, gentlemen of the government? We have also heard Mr Vorides of the New Democracy. He also tried to argue about unconstitutionalism, and in the end he ended up telling us that nothing should be given without dialogue. In other words, the problem of the New Democracy is not whether something will be given, just if there is to be any dialogue. I mean, you guys, let's sell them out, let's just show that we fought, that we did something. The Minister for Labour, Mrs Ahtsoglou, has already mentioned the extension of the pension freeze for another year, until 2022, so that a surplus of 3.5% can be achieved. What you do not say in this Chamber, however, is that, by 2020, which is required by creditors to be continuously in the range of 3.5%, a surplus for two and only consecutive years has only been achieved by two of the twenty developed countries! The surplus here, however, comes in 3.5%, on the basis of the statement by the Minister of Economy, Mr Papadimitriou, about a month ago in the newspaper 'Kathimerini', which said that we will be charged by Brexit - and I had said it again from this Step - with an additional 1% to 1.5% directly and with a percentage of 1% indirectly. So we are talking about a surplus of 6% that needs to be achieved, and here we are talking about that only two countries have been able to achieve this for two years in a row. You are plundering and simply plundering. You're not going to achieve anything at all. Tell the ordinary Greek citizen how after seven years of legislation, draft laws, sanctions, measures, taxes that you have imposed not only EUR half the debt of Greece, but it has doubled. That doesn't make sense. Why did you take the measures because our foreign debt has not been reduced at all? Finally, you left-wing left-wings - and I would clarify here that left-wing right-wing pockets are not, because that had never applied, you have always been left-wing, and you will be left-wing pockets - the two years of your administration you have overrun your predecessors, the capitalists. You have become capitalist more than capitalists! Unfortunately, the way in which you exercise your policy does not require a serious opposition. Your actions, the way you rule is ridiculous, so we'll deal with you from now on. Do not complain about what is to be heard, saying that the institution of parliamentism is downgrading. ‘Preparation of the amended Agreement establishing the General Committee for Fisheries for the Mediterranean’. Once, in the years of your careless, lords of government, while you were extraparliamentary, even when you arrived to be opposition, you had a saying that the Aegean was its fish. You've sold the fish, you've sold the Aegean. You've sold out everything, you've left nothing. That's how we get to today. So, with your well-known and unacceptable tactics on last minute's amendments, which are always unrelated to the draft laws, co-government, which acts as a faithful servant of loan sharks, intends once again to close the loose ends for Eurogroup so that the second assessment can be completed and disbursed again. So our homeland is being dragged into a dance of anti-popular and anti-national measures, which will further impoverish the already exhausted Greek people. Therefore, given that we consider the amendments to the Memorandum Responsibilities of Enforcement to be illegal and burdensome as well as equivalent to the full assignment of national sovereignty, we will vote against them as a whole, as will this sanction. What must not escape me and I must stress at some point is this: the new Republic's rapporteur has again come to the elections. Finally, at some point, I can see that all the Members of the New Democracy are missing - get out and state from this Step what the Golden Dawn demands. State that you will not apply and remove all that they have voted on. We have already heard Mr Brutsi say that the increase in pensions has been extended until 2022. Let's tell us that when and when they come to things, they'll get rid of all this right away. Oh, no! No, it's all good for them. That is the populism I mentioned before. They just want to show that they have come to mind, that they have learned from the mistakes of the past and that they will practice a completely different policy. Let me turn to the amendments. We have said features in Amendment 1058/64, which I consider very serious, that you are once again following the technique of misleading, the one that has brought you to power and the one which is still partially maintaining you. It is a misunderstanding because none of what you called countermeasures will ever apply, since it depends on the condition and to the extent that, according to an assessment of the International Monetary Fund and the European Stability Mechanism, there is no deviation from the medium-term budgetary targets as set by the programme. This mentioned Article 15 of Law 4472/2017, which you voted on, and that is what defines in total the fraud of the much-discussed countermeasures, which supposedly fully balance the burdensome measures of the new memorandum. Furthermore, in detail and without rotation, the same article that is a guiding provision for the entire legislation states: Paragraph 2, which you are now forced to amend in the light of the new wreck in the negotiations that are coming, the expenditure resulting from the application of the so-called favourable provisions on the housing allowance in Article 3, the programme on nursery care in Article 4, the school meals - which Mrs Fotio mentioned yesterday, and I said that I was shattered in the hearing that by 2019, which ends your term, you want to apply it in all schools, namely, before you pay that your management of the budget will be such a mess, that we will be forced to have a food programme in all schools, in order not to faint our children -, the child allowance in Article 6, the measures to strengthen the work in Article 7, the Public Investment Programme in Article 8, and the reduction in the amount of the contribution to pharmaceutical expenditure in Article 9 shall be adapted to Article 9. What does that mean? Depending on the approval of the troika. Therefore, not only are they legislated to implement, but on the contrary, even in the unlikely event that the local objectives of the surplus are caught, its implementation is not automatic, as it wishes. Because here you're lying to us. You want to convince us as a government, but on the contrary it is once again up to the acceptance, approval and blessing of the institutions. Accordingly, for the tax reductions referred to in Article 10. If the International Monetary Fund and the others, in accordance with Article 15(2), consider that the conditions for the implementation of the comprehensive memorandum can be met by the objective I mentioned earlier, 3.5% for 2019, then these reductions will only apply to the incomes that will be generated in 2019, namely for the 2020 financial year, but always under the approval of the Troika. Therefore, the reasons in the explanatory statement on the clearer wording of the provision and legal certainty, which allegedly compel you to bring this amendment, can only be considered hypocritical, since the proposed forward application of Article 10 is irrelevant, since it depends entirely on your good intention, not on your good intention, but on the absolute approval of the partners. So the necessary amendment to Article 10, which is mentioned in the explanatory memorandum, is nothing but tax reductions that are included if the International Monetary Fund and the others, as we have said in Article 15(2), consider that the 35% target for 2019 can be achieved from the conditions for the implementation of the comprehensive memorandum. The wording presupposes, of course, the expected failure in the budgetary objectives, which are fully determined by the agreement with the troika. Moreover, as is already known, the European Commission, as is apparent from the official figures it has made public a few days ago, is revising its assessments of the main sizes of the economy, even lowering the level of growth to 2.1% from 2.7% and 2.5% from 3.1% to 2018, which makes it even more difficult for the target for the so-called primary surpluses for 2018. In other words, this means that the well-intentioned implementation of the countermeasures, which you had announced, will never be implemented, but will follow other prerequisites, which will lead the Greek economy to further descent and the citizens of the country into further despair. As regards Amendment No 1061/67, which concerns the financing of the parties, we have repeatedly said as Golden Dawn that we have a permanent position with regard to the financing of the parties. We are not just asking for the full abolition of the funding of the parties - with this amendment you are bringing - it seems clear that it was not your intention to put some order into the financing of the parties, it was simply forcing you once again the Troika and the International Monetary Fund - but as Golden Dawn we have to propose this: the money that the parties owe to them - money that they will reasonably be unable to repay - to be paid, Minister, for those who were active Members of Parliament during the course of the debate. Because otherwise this debt will never be repaid. Because we need this money, like the other red loans, to be auctioned if it is. And since the parties do not have any assets, the Members' assets should be seized for the time they have been parliamentarians. Because, as one of their own parliamentarians once said, we "we have eaten them together". We didn't eat them together. Like they ate them, to pay for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u239	Mr. Lazarides has the floor from the Independent Greeks.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u240	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, I would like to start by saying that I understand the need to vote for the prerequisites and I am clearly positive about them. But, on the other hand, I also understand the embarrassment of counterpopulation, because it usually behaves like this. When an event has preceded, which reveals and surfaces what has been committed, what has been done in the past, and has come out of sins, which are responsible for what the citizens and the country are experiencing, the opposition parties usually do just that: they are going up a lot of tons to hide some things that have been revealed. Yesterday, you know, the Martine exam started, and we heard monsters and signs there. We were expecting it, of course, but it is another thing to hear and confirm what we have been waiting for. We have heard monsters and signs for top ministers from both party and party. So you realize that this way they're trying to cover up the impact of yesterday's revelations from the point of view of Martin. Of course, they can't, because the size of the revelations is huge. You know, on the one hand, we have the revelations about armaments, and now the process has started as far as health is concerned, for which some appreciate that they are of size, maybe even bigger than those of armaments. This means that from 120% of the GDP debt ratio, which was responsible for the International Monetary Fund coming home and entering this surveillance process, at least half is due to this irregularities, which is 60%. If we take 60% off, it means that the country's loan charge was 60%. We would not have suffered these consequences. On the other hand, you see that the two parties react, because I have here in front of me one of the amendments tabled, which concerns the lending of the parties and places the parties in order to borrow them. They seem to mind, because here the explanatory statement at some point says that 'they cannot use state grant unreasonably'. What have the two parties done so far? Only ignorantly used the state grant. They used future rates that they were supposed to take as a guarantee to borrow. They have now come to the point of one party, the Anti-Population Officer, owed EUR 240 million and the other party about EUR 220 million. Where are these going to be paid? In fact, the Vice-President of Officerial Response has come out twice on TV and said that these should be enjoyed. Giving up that money? This is Greek people's money. We're talking about 240m euros. So, are they looking forward to seeking the trust of the Greek people? So, in other words, they think about managing the country's finances, if they ever trust them - which is not going to, why does the Greek people have no goldfish memory? On the other hand, the rapporteur for Officerial Vice-President spoke at some point about pension reductions. It does not talk anywhere, no amendment, no pension reductions. In fact, the rapporteur on the PASOK side said that the amendment speaks of a pension freeze and was placed on it. In any case, the reality is that the amendment speaks of freezing, but of course under certain conditions. If we look at it as it is, in its actual size, the freeze ensures that we don't have a reduction. Otherwise, in five years, i.e. from 2010 to 2014, these two parties applied thirteen pension reductions.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u241	Fourteen!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u242	Fourteen? Fourteen reductions. I remembered thirteen. I heard another colleague from the Qualified Opposition who spoke about insurance contributions and, indeed, made a criticism that is far from reality. He said that people are allegedly wronged by insurance contributions and they pay more and more. I'll bring you an example, because, you know, the numbers aren't disgusting. I'm an engineer. We engineers paid 550 euros a month, with or without income. That is, since 2009, I said it and yesterday from this Step, the engineers have been unobjectioned. In 2009, the SYRIZA - ANEL government did not rule. In 2009, New Democracy - PASOK and so on ruled. I will now give you some figures. A mechanic, had or had no income, paid 550 euros a month. Today, with the existing system, this new system brought by SYRIZA - Independent Greeks, an engineer with an income of 7,000 pays 232 euros a month and is insured himself and his family. With the former system, he or he had no income, he paid 550 euros and the new system pays 232 euros for an income of 7,000 euros. For an annual income of 10,000 euros, the contribution is 280 euros a month. For 20,000 euros income, the contribution is 450 euros. Where does it turn out he's paying more today than he's been paying for in the past? At some point these inaccuracies should be stopped, because they misinform the Greek people. You know the Greek people don't forget those eighteen points, they don't forget the Zappeia and the courage with which the then Prime Minister answered the journalists, when they asked where they were what they promised the Greek people and he said: "No man without sin." You know, even that was arrogant. He used a phrase Christian, a phrase that he had to face with respect. The phrase 'no sinless' is arrogant but humility. When Christians use this expression it shows humility. But he used it to say he doesn't have to apologize to anyone, because everyone is sinners and no one is sinners. In any case, I would like to say two things about the ratification of the convention. Ladies and gentlemen, the agreement establishing the General Committee on Fisheries for the Mediterranean provides for an appropriate framework for multilateral cooperation to promote the development, conservation, rational management and optimum use of living marine resources in the Mediterranean and the Black Sea. The provisions we are discussing today therefore result from the need to protect fish stocks and within the framework of European policy on sustainable fisheries. Of course, however, as the scientists point out, more measures are needed, especially for large fish, which are important ecologically and stocks are in critical condition. These policies aim to bring fishing stocks back to sustainable levels, to put an end to waste fishing practices and to create new employment and development opportunities in coastal areas, by strengthening small-scale fisheries support, improving scientific knowledge of the state of stocks and taking responsibility for foreign waters, through the European Union's international agreements. As the fishermen point out, one of the main problems of the sector is that the country's fish populations have been threatened, especially in recent years, which, because of the crisis, uncontrolled fishing has taken a great deal of weight. Attention and proper management of our seas are therefore needed. Fishing is an essential part of our Greek economy and our tradition and incorrect management will henceforth be a threat, both to the marine ecosystem and to our economy and to our tradition. Ladies and gentlemen, the only sustainable road to protecting the Mediterranean, so that coastal communities continue to prosper, is cooperation between all coastal countries around the Mediterranean Sea. After all, the European Union has made improved ocean management a top priority, and this requires close cooperation with the Member States of the European Union, third countries and regional organisations. The lives of many Europeans are directly intertwined with the sea and marine resources and, as Greece, we want equal conditions of competition for all types of fishing in the Mediterranean. Illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing runs out of fish stocks, distorts competition, creates conditions of unfair competition at the expense of honest fishermen and weakens the coastal communities, especially in developing countries. The reform of the European Union’s Common Fisheries Production, which entered into force in January 2014, sets out precisely those objectives, namely to ensure a satisfactory level of income for fishermen and, at the same time, to put an end to overfishing and the resulting exhaustion of fish stocks. We want to improve the fisheries situation and for these reasons we are looking forward to common rules that enhance the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. We support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u243	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House organises and operates thirty-seven students and students and three educational escorts from the Elementary School of Naples Laconia. The House welcomes you to the Chamber. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Marios Georgiadis has the floor for 15 minutes from the Centron Association.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u244	Thank you very much, Madam President. In my turn, I, too, shall refer to the unacceptable way in which we legislate. In ratification for fish we bring amendments to the Memorandum. You probably have the impression that we have a goldfish memory and we and the Greek people and we can pass it all in the duo. I was also present at the Conference of Presidents, and I have to admit, in my turn, that the whole climate had in no way the image that has been made in the media. The climate was too consensual. The opposition symposium said that it is right that we should be able to get an extension, since on the 15th of the month is the end date. There was no reason to hurry to do it today, vulture. In your honour, Madam President - and I mention you, because you are here - you said 'I do not see why we should not do it on Monday'. However, we move on to the improved version of the memorandum, because it is obviously like mobile devices, that comes out of a device and we remove the "plus" version or "S", because there are some flaws. This also illustrates the clandestineness with which you legislate. None of you read the nineteen pages of the previous memorandum, in order to be able to identify all these improvements that may be needed and we have that from the law entitled "deeply" comes the so-called thriller earlier. Let's go to your narratives. The first record is about the negotiation. Where you are and where you stand, you say that you are negotiating and that what you are doing is an enduring negotiation. But it has ended up being eternal negotiation. Two and a half years you've been telling us you're negotiating. You know what he'll say to negotiate two and a half years for the same thing? That you obviously fail in the negotiation that is taking place there and it would be good to go on to admit that you are doing a leisure trip and not negotiating. Because the successful negotiation has two things: firstly, it closes soon and, secondly, it has the so-called win-win solution to the negotiation. Here permanently wins the lenders, and we eat slaps. So stop this account, it's been demolished. The number 2 record relates to countermeasures. These have also been completed and it has been completed with Article 15 of the memorandum, which we signed a few days ago. ‘If and if’, countermeasures will be attributed. First of all, let us take the goal, let the lenders ratify it, that the institutions ratify it, and even if we exceed 3.5%, then we will see whether something will be attributed to the Greek people. The nickname number 3 relates to the debt candy. Obviously, Mr Tsipras came and told you that he had the debt settlement in his pocket, if and after you voted for the memorandum, you believed it and voted for it. Evidently you may have been deceived yourself. We have reached the end of the day to say that we have not discussed the debt and that we will be discussing it at all. The lenders come out and say that the debt will be discussed if and after the end of August 2018 the third memorandum. At the end of the day, however, I do not see debt being discussed. The item number 4 is about quantitative relaxation. We're talking about the QE, which wings, and about getting out on the market. At what rate do we get out on the markets? You blamed Samara Government themselves, which went out on the markets at around 4.7% interest rate, and you will end up coming out at the same and higher interest rates on the markets. Is that the solution you bring to the economy? Is that how we're going to get out on the market? Conclusion? We will not leave any Memorandum in August 2018. Unfortunately, my prediction, when I spoke about basketball terms during the speech on Memorandum 4 that we signed, saying that you brought back to back and that next year we will discuss "three-peat", for your third memorandum in turn as government, will probably fall in. Let's go to the amendments. Amendment No 1059 concerns collective agreements. Ladies and gentlemen, the negotiations are not going to take place. This is the first time that we have been asked to change the wording in the explanatory memorandum of a bill. We go to ambiguity and undetermined time of collective agreements, which you yourself were selling as something gaining from negotiation. Wings and that! Apparently, the lenders got the news, you got your ear and you're coming now to pick it up. Do you think, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, that, because you do not read what is brought to you and vote and sign, do not lenders do so? Apparently you're deceiving this. We shall now proceed to the next amendment on the reduction of duty. The danger of this amendment, under number 1058, is that you leave an open loop on how to manage duty-free if you do not achieve the objective of the primary surplus. I have nothing to comment on. For more, our Parliamentary representative will also be mentioned. The lending of the parties refers to the amendment by a general number of 1061. This is where we get a passover. We should go to culture like an American system, which we will neither need to borrow to make as parties, either the election campaign or the costs during which we are in Parliament, nor, of course, to take and squander the Greek citizen's money from the subsidy of the parties. That's what they have to go. Let there be transparency of any donations, so that each party can operate on its own resources. The next amendment, number 1062, concerns electronic auctions. There is only one positive here, that the successful tenderer himself will be able to pay the fee for the use of electronic systems and will not be charged by the State. The pension freeze, the amendment with a general number of 1060. We are talking about the only hope of retired people, even if GDP or inflation is positively closed, to put EUR 5.10 into their pockets. And you're freezing that for 2022. This is estimated, on the basis of your explanatory statement, at EUR 250 million, for which we did not see you taking countermeasures. Is there any fat in the previous countermeasures and we do not know it? We're going to move a little further into Civicism. In a few days' time - I have been brought into this before - you will do the so-called'retire' outside the House. You'll concentrate on giving up the government. Go and quit the government and you come. Tell us what you're gonna do. Because at a panel I was found yesterday by a member of the counterpopulation, he said: "We will have a different policy mix." And I say: 'Good, with the mixture you'll have, we'll get out of the memorials'. "No, we didn't say that. We will tell the Greek people the truth." "Not that we will get out of the memorials, but we will tell the truth to the Greek people." So, why would you come to the government? Since we are talking about openness, I would like to refer to something. You yourself refer to the sincerity, but the President of the Association of Centres, Mr Leventis, from the Step of the House, was the one who spoke justly and honestly at the memorial that happened to the late Constantine Mitsotakis. He referred to two unfortunate moments, perhaps even with a dose of exaggeration, I understand your reaction, however, the positive ones he said went through the shower. He said he was a gifted man. He said he brought consensus and culture, because he managed to make a government with a party with which he had quite different views. He said he was a big man and that he still wants to hear truths. He said he could rule and be Prime Minister earlier. He also said that he left a positive sign, both for your prolongation and for the Greek society. All of this was overshadowed because it was sincere and fair and referred to two negative points of the deceased’s political career. To you who are speaking of honesty - and to all of you in the Chamber, because you all stood up - obviously like loopholes, you like licks and you like to listen to songs from people who, when they were alive, begging him and when he left life, were with an anthems and you applauded them here.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u245	Where do you come from?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u246	So, for honesty you cannot talk, nobody in here, because the only one who is telling the truth is the Central Association, which has actually entered the House, saying that it will cut high pensions, pensions above EUR 1,500, and costing in the HELIOS system, - there is Mr Brutsis, who has brought the HELIOS system, a very important pension scheme -, valued the figures of February on the basis of the HELIOS system, if pensions above EUR 1,500 are cut to a ceiling of EUR 1,500 million, the savings for the Greek State are over EUR 1.5 million, without computing the eighth thousand of the wealth, which we say, having incomes above EUR 3,000, with an average pension of EUR 1,5 billion in excess of 1,5 billion, without merge the pensions, without the total pensions being abolished from all the above EUR 4 billion in the Quartet's budget and of the European Union. Not to mention the public, which we are the only ones to say needs to be properly evaluated, to identify the slow-wages and, if they cannot be absorbed, to remove them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u247	And the Lord hadn't spotted them?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u248	Did he remove them? The point is to find them, locate them and remove them. You've all learned to perpetuate this whole client system. And yesterday - you give me the opportunity, Mr. Theonas, and I thank you - when I said that all parties have been appointed, and you are all the same, and you cannot sit at the same table, because you have all cut pensions, you have all increased taxes, you have all signed Memorandums, you have all signed inconsistent appointments, I was attacked by the government and told me 'what are the inconsistent appointments we have made?' Do you want me to remind you of the rappers and their whole family? Do you want me to remind you of PPC's artistic director? You want me to say about the cleaners? Do you want me to say about the two and a half thousand who wants to appoint the Ministry of Culture?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u249	The cleaners?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u250	Of course, you cleaners. With what logic? Don't give up on that. The rhysphetological state is perpetuating it, too. The Ministry of Culture wants two and a half thousand employees for the archaeological sites and at the same time you will have countless unwritten...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u251	The way you say it with the City Police...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u252	All right, keep interrupting.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u253	Let the speaker finish. That doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u254	When you don't like truths, you've learned to interrupt. You can't stand the truth.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u255	Yeah, that's it. You can stand it and we can't stand it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u256	Of course, I can take her because I call her. In fact, the next answer was that you are holy. Gentlemen of government, if you are holy to go to a monastery, because to rule you are incapable! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u257	Last from the circle of speakers is Mr. Danellis from Potami, and then the Minister for Rural Development, Mr. Apostolos, has asked for the floor. Here, Mr. Dannelly, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u258	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the initial government choice to push the closure of evaluation in the future, with the illusion that conditions would improve and the result for the country would be better, proved utopian and particularly damaging. The difficulty of managing a party and voters pushed it into the support of the symbols, while swallowing the important and difficult ones. The multi-annual commitment to achieving unrealistic primary surpluses has been much easier to accept than labour, the operation of shops on Sundays, the sale of MUSYLAFs outside pharmacies. Unfortunately, the government was caught up in the case of debt settlement, while we knew since the 2015 agreement that this will be done after the completion of the programme, namely after July 2018, resulting in the brutal waste of negotiating capital and the creation of high but in vain expectations, which is particularly costing both credibility and market functioning. The inappropriate refusal to draw conclusions and lessons from the 2015 catastrophic negotiation led it back to the last hour. There is no point in complaining, ladies and gentlemen, of the way in which legislation no longer respects the prerogatives. The violation of all concepts of good legislature seals the darkest colours of this parliamentary term. The cynicism of the Quartet arises, ladies and gentlemen, from the fact that no one trusts us anymore. The loss of confidence is gradually escalating from the far 2011 to today, when we agreed, signed, legislated, and then turned, without even the pretext of the engagement. The consolidation of this puppy tactic, the ash in the eyes of pups, and we should not change anything, not to mention the small or the large ones that would unleash our party audiences, obviously depleted its limits, and that is what we are paying today. The main concern of the partners today, unfortunately, is to ensure that loans are returned. This also interprets their obsession with issues that are far from the negotiating reform agenda that the country so much needs. This also means that their absolute inefficiency, which today leads us to the shadow of violating basic parliamentary rules. Potami does not share and does not adopt the hypocritical cries of counterpopulation. The loss of credibility has culminated, but it is not only because of the current government. Refusal to accept the reality, to mock ears, serves nothing but perhaps to achieve micro-party benefits, but only to go for a while. Potami did not just call on the government to close the haunted second assessment, but at the same time said that pension insurance with higher wages, with the production of pensioners in their fifty even today, is neither sustainable nor fair. We were saying that maintaining a tax-free tax that allows 55% of households not to tax themselves is absurd. However, it had to be modified at the same time reducing the low, but painfully high, first tax rate. We also said that it was pointless now to insist on individual predictions of labour legislation which did not take into account the unfavourable reality of vicious structural unemployment and the new conditions of the fourth industrial revolution, to mention just two - three examples. That is what the correct reason and the perception of reality is. I must remind you that the painful 2015, when we in vainly asked for a compromise and agreement as quickly as possible and to God, not after the end of the second support programme, not only did we not listen to it, but then irresponsible to many of us because we were urging you to agree and what agreement might be a yes, until you realised with horror what 'non-agreement' means. However, time is money, and in our case extra sacrifices to the citizens and, of course, burdens on the real economy. I now move on to the amendments. The general title could be in five words: 'The meditation of the partners as a result of an absolute lack of confidence'. In simple terms, you are subjected to legislative capsules, so that we can finish with the big and easy words. Capsule number one: Amendment 1058/64. This amendment concerns the recasting of a paragraph of Article 15 of the medium-term programme, which only spent two weeks ago and does not change anything on the substance. It is clear that the partners simply want to ensure in every possible way that, from now on, any change to the duty-free limit will have to pass first from their own approval. The first is Amendment No 1059/65 on free collective bargaining. The text of the amendment is exactly the same as that of Article 16 of the medium-term programme, to which I referred earlier. Where's the difference? In fact, the Potami legal team and our scientific associates have taken their eyes out all night, looking for what's changing and finally what's changing is only seven words in the explanatory statement. Unprecedented! Who are these? It is "subject to the successful completion of the programme". This means that any more favourable regulation on collective bargaining will not apply exactly from 20-8-2018, but only if the programme is successfully completed. What are they telling us? It goes without saying that the completion of the programme, the completion of the memorandum, is not a matter of a defined time horizon, but of the achievement of the objectives. And the partners do not want to leave any margin for different interpretations of the law. It requires the government to obtain what has been stubbornly refused, that is, the programme's self-evident record of all of us. And they do this by means of a legal correction to a provision of a high political amount and a high political symbolism for you. Capsule number three: Amendment No 1060/66 amending again what was adopted two weeks ago on public pension arrangements. In particular, a transfer is made by one year of the start of pension arrangements from 1-1-2022 to 1-1-2023, when in purely economic terms there is a saving of 250 million in the budget of the EPC for 2022. This, of course, is equivalent to an equal ranch in pensioners’ pockets. What is of interest here in the explanatory memorandum again, which actually tells us what? He tells us that this pension ranch will release resources for other sensitive groups, for more vulnerable groups. Because it has now been understood that, unfortunately, there are also more vulnerable than pensioners or, more rightly, many of the retired people, as we told you, on the occasion of the Christmas one-on-one bonus. In relation to Amendment No 1061/67 on the financing of the parties, we had to blackmail from the "quartet" for a public life provision in the country for the bank loans of the parties. A few months before Potami, on the occasion of the Committee of Inquiry into the debts and financing of the parties, insisted on including in the conclusion of this provision. At the same time, he insisted on a direct government legislative initiative to cut the cord between parties and banks. We are, of course, voting in favour of this amendment. For Amendment 1062/68, which regulates the payment of the fee for the use of the electronic auction system by the successful tenderer, there was obviously no need to come as an urgent amendment if the writing of Article 59 of the multi-legislative draft for the medium-term update of the programme had not been dealt with. Ladies and gentlemen, today it is important to get out of the field of moving sand that we are caught up in, in order to move towards a normality, where the economy will start to function and the government will start to produce governmental work. We hope that the government will now mean that the real red line is the country's stay as an equal partner in the narrow core of the European Union. And this, not for cynical reasons, but as a result of real and unique national interest. Let us all get out of this adventure more wisely, because the road ahead of us is long and inconvenience and, of course, it is dubious to end up and let us worry about the deception of the political system and, above all, a dead-end picture of the opposition of roles between government and counterpopulation, between pragmatism and populist hypocrisy. Let us detect the necessary collective self-awareness, which is the main prerequisite for our finally exiting the crisis and the range of bankruptcy. The sacred wrath of the former government for the zero-destructive and destructive opposition of the current rulers is just but politically deadlocked. SYRIZA, after so much strapta, must now understand the thin limit between cynicism and pragmatism and finally move away from hypocritical bilingualism. The perpetuation of the behaviours so far, that is, our bad self, as a political system as a whole, has tired, disappointed, and ultimately alienates us from our citizens. Notice how from the burning squares a few years ago we are leading to the cynicism of absolute peculiarity. And that, of course, will not help us either as a political system or as a society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u259	Thank you, Mr Dannelly, for the time. I shall now give the floor - as he has asked me - to the Minister, Mr Apostolos. Come on, Mr. Apostle. How long do you want to talk? You normally have eighteen minutes, but could we be shortened?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u260	I don't think I'm gonna exhaust him.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u261	I'll give you ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u262	First of all, I would like to put forward a legal improvement. It's the addition of a word.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u263	Ladies and gentlemen, today's sitting is about fishing and let me turn to it in particular. We, the Ministry of Rural Development and Food, are now starting a series of regulations on fisheries, a sector of neuro-algalgic for our country, which, unfortunately, has experienced the complete abandonment, from the Ministry to the Ministry. This is a sector which may not contribute much to the GDP of our country, but is a pillar of development and a link for the coastal and island regions of our country. The revision of the agreement we are discussing is not a simple formal ratification. It concerns the definition of key elements, which will help the General Fisheries Commission of the Mediterranean to identify the necessary amendments to its internal rules of procedure and to its financing regulation, in order to address structural and operational problems, in order to make it more effective. The amendments relate to the existing obligations of the Contracting Parties to the General Fisheries Commission for the Mediterranean and do not create new obligations. They can, however, be grouped into the following four categories: first, objective, general principles and functions of the committee. Secondly, the organization and structure of the committee. Thirdly, the role of the Contracting Parties and non-Contracting Parties, Observers and organisations in general. And of course, fourthly, the resolution of disputes. The revised Agreement is in accordance with the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea and its provisions on the conservation and management of highly migratory fish species, stocks and the FAO Fisheries Code and the principles of the Common Fisheries Policy. Therefore, its ratification, apart from being necessary, since our country is a founding part of the Agreement on the Mediterranean, is also for its benefit. Furthermore, our country is committed to ratification and as a Member State of the European Union. But I will say - because I had committed myself - to the plenary on the next day of fishing. Despite the problems we have inherited from the economic crisis, despite the problems in public administration by subscribing the services, we do everything we can to bring the industry into a sustainable, sustainable situation. The challenges that we have before us are complex, but with the synergy of all of us and the conviction that it is our common goal to create sustainable and sustainable fisheries - we insist on that - we will succeed. The beginning will be with the next bill that we will bring to Parliament for a vote on the trade union law of our producers. It is crucial that producers' organisations and, in particular, the fishermen are organised so that we can reconcile the necessary interventions that are an undeniable need for the industry. The organisation of producers, together with scientific advice, will form the basis for building the sustainability of fisheries. We're talking about a trade union from primary union to central representation. At the same time, we are working on a draft Presidential Decree on the professionality of fishermen, which is also a request from our fishermen to clarify the sector and lay the foundations for the creation of an organised, so that the term of fishing may be allowed. Fishing respects water resources and the environment and contributes to sustainability through principles that serve blue development. At the same time we financially support the sector with the financial instruments available from the Operational Fisheries and Maritime Programme. In June, calls for innovation in fisheries and aquaculture will be published, the modernisation, the energy efficiency of fishing vessels’ control systems, the promotion of the added value of fishery products and the use of unwanted catches, the investments in fishing shelters, ports of landing and traditional investments in aquaculture and processing. It is a total budget of EUR 181 million and we are committed to being activated by the ESDP by the end of the year. Let me also refer to the amendments, starting with the pension amendment, which has also been strongly opposed to unconstitutional objections. State care for compulsory social security, main and ancillary, also includes care for the protection of the capital of socio-security institutions, for their sustainability, for the sake of future generations. The State is the guarantor of their capital adequacy and bears the main responsibility for covering deficits, in accordance with the relevant opinion of the Court of Auditors. In cases of extremely unfavourable budgetary circumstances, however, it is justified that the State cannot provide sufficient funding to its insurance institutions and that there is no possibility of ensuring their viability by other means, under Article 22(5) of the Constitution, the intervention of the legislature in order to reduce even the pensions awarded and those to be awarded is not excluded under Article 22(5) of the Constitution. In exceptional cases, however, this possibility for the legislator to reduce insurance benefits is not unlimited, but is delimited in the first place by the principle of social solidarity and the principle of proportionality. There are specific articles in the Constitution that state it. In accordance with the principle of proportionality, this measure must indeed be appropriate and necessary to address the problem. See the relevant case law of the Council of State. In particular, the measure is necessary when it is considered that there is no other as effective instrument, which would not limit or less significantly limit the right to social security. In this respect, the present intervention in pension expenditure is based on overriding reasons in the public interest, namely the successful completion of the second assessment of the economic adjustment programme, which will enable the direct and stable financing of the Greek economy and the regulation of the public debt. It is the most appropriate and most appropriate measure to protect the sustainability of the socio-security system. Furthermore, the reduction of pension costs by extending until the end of 2022 of the entry into force of the pension increase will allow for the release of funds to support other social costs, in which Greece is considerably short of the other countries. Ladies and gentlemen, we are living in a shattered and uncertain international environment and in a Europe that has lost its pace and does not find its democratic reflexes. The difficulties are increased, so our own responsibilities are to "cut" a different azimuth to direct Europe in a philosophical direction with a fair distribution of goods and stop the provocative unequal distribution of wealth, reconstruct the economy of our country so that the Greek people can breathe, get rid of the comitology in which you, fellow Members of the counter-population, who had the responsibility for governance of our country in previous years, led us. You threw our country's economy on the rocks. Don't pretend innocent. You are absolutely responsible for our country's situation. You led her to the collapse, the memorials, the suffocating status of the committee. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Madam President, allow me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u264	You have two more minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u265	If you can't do anything to help the country, at least don't put any obstacles. Find the courage to join the needs of the Greek people for a while. Our government, despite the unprecedented circumstances it had to face, launched the resolution of economic, social and institutional problems and broke abscessions that had been afflicting Greek society for decades. He showed negotiative resistance and determination in a long-distance race, aiming to win, to ensure as much as possible for the Greek people. No, we're not going to claim that everything was done well. But in this environment, international and internal, we are fighting it, not without mistake. However, because we have no dependence on anyone, with creative dialogue with all the institutions and collectives, with all the Greek society, we are prepared to launch what we can do. In this fight, what you did was ask for elections on the next day of the elections. What is urgent today is within this environment to be able to develop these productive and creative activities that will have a real impact on the daily lives of the Greek citizen, to create an environment as much as possible free of aberrations and atrocities, with a modern democratic framework of operation, by reconstructing the services of the public administration to truly serve the citizen and the needs of the country, with principles and rules in the economy that mobilise the business world and investment, with an honest political education and education for the citizens, so that society wants to feel the breath of the state rather than discomfort. You, ladies and gentlemen, are looking forward to the government's failure and you are doing everything you can to help in this direction. Mr. Brutsi, you are baconed with the idea that the Greek people have nostalgicized you. Irresponsible misfortune. Leave the impoverished demagogy, Knock off the need for the Greek people. And this need is now being served through a national consensus, so that the Greek society will come out of the crisis as quickly as possible, with which you have loaded it all these years.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u266	Mr Amyras, a Parliamentary representative from the River. Ladies and gentlemen, before I give the floor to Mr Amyras, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and the way in which Parliament is organised and operated, twelve students and students and two teachers of the University of Pittsburgh. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Then will Mr Theocharopoulos, Mr Venizelos, and then Members of Parliament, and alternate Members of Parliament, speak to move forward. A request for a roll-call vote has now been tabled by the New Democracy. Here, Mr. Amyras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u267	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me to begin with a little comment on something I have heard at the end of the day by the Minister, my dear Mr Apostle. You say the Opposition has done its utmost to fail the government. There's nothing the Opposition is doing. Alone you've screwed up as a government. We don't have to do anything. That's a little comment, if you'll excuse me. Reading the agenda for Parliament's sitting today, one sees the following debate and vote on the principle of Articles and all of the draft law: 'Following the amended agreement establishing the General Committee on Fisheries for the Mediterranean'. Instead of discussing the Committee on Fisheries, the Ministry of Finance brings another mini, an express memorandum in the form of amendments. As I mentioned at the beginning of the sitting, this is a complete parliamentary humiliation. The government brings the change in the memorandum to the fish bill, because it thinks that the MPs and citizens have a memory of goldfish, as if we have forgotten what the Prime Minister and the first-class ministers have said recently, twenty-two days ago, when on May 18, about three weeks ago, the hundred and fifty-three MPs SYRIZA and ANEL were celebratingly voting on the fourth Memorandum of the country, and now we are called upon to vote again in one day on all that the troika sent yesterday. Before we move on, then, to the substance of the provisions, it is important to refer again to the procedure, to stress it, to point out that this parliamentary approach does not bring honour to any of the Members of Parliament, in any parliamentary procedure. I am sorry - I said this earlier in my first speech - that the MPs, in particular SYRIZA and ANELs, are treated by their own government as a herd. They give them everything in times of dt, underestimated both their role and their opinions and possibly their reactions and, of course, the composition that should exist, because I thought and believe that something good always comes out of such a process. Now we're actually going. Today we are talking about the absolute conspiracy of the government. It's the government's ultimate conspiracy! It is the ruthless retreat of the Ministry of Finance, the painful failure to negotiate with the Prime Minister. I'm not talking about the Constitution, it's a rag. You are not every word of the Constitution, you have become every word of the memorials! The Court of Auditors has now said that there is unconstitutionality with the pension provisions. Let us look at the content of these amendments. A few weeks ago Mr. Tsipras, the Prime Minister, visited the parliamentary editors and said the most well-known "too good to be true", that the news about the debt is almost incredible. In fact, he even said charmingly that he would be forced to wear a tie. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the House is occupied by Mr. SYRIDON LYKOUDES.]] So that was on 18 May 2017, and then you, the SYRIZA and ANEL Members, voting for your second memorandum - the fourth memorandum of the country - said that this was, finally, that these were all the measures and that we would not have to vote for any further measures. It's been exactly twenty - two days since. What's changed? First of all, you have lost - unfortunately also the country, apparently - the debt. In the explanatory memorandum to the fourth memorandum you said that the Memorandum of Understanding of about EUR 5 billion, such as the reduction in pensions, such as the increase in taxes on employees of EUR 500, who will lose one month a year from duty-free reduction, was necessary to start the debate on debt, the medium-term arrangements in any case. In their speeches, the ministers said that these were the last measures and we were taking the debt with their vote. I do not want to remind you - because I imagine that neither will they want to remember - what some ministers and MPs were saying at the time, twenty-two days ago, about the debt and the measures you had taken. Finally, as emerged from the Eurogroup of 22 May, you have received nothing about the debt. Jiph! The debt debate is switching for the summer of 2018 and the hard line of Siomple comes from and finds documentation and "track" to the signature of Tsakalotou, who, on the Eurogroup of May 22, had of course signed that the discussion on the debt begins with the completion of the fourth memorandum. That's what Shoeble says. We have had a new opportunity and we have, ladies and gentlemen, another chance. As you said three weeks ago that, if the debt does not enter a groove, then no measure should be applied, there is now an opportunity to add another amendment to the effect that nothing will be applied by what you are voting on if it is not accompanied, at the same time, by arrangements to deal with the debt. The country's second major defeat is the famous QE. It seems that we are also losing the quantitative relaxation of the European Central Bank. Let us finally know what's going on. Will there be an explicit commitment by the European Central Bank to Eurogroup of 15 June that the country will be included in the quantitative relaxation programme or not? We also see from the Minutes of 22 May that the Government has brought a memorandum of understanding in the form of amendments, as we see it, but in Brussels it will take the Soible solution, which Mr Tsakalotos himself had described as the worst for the country. In the report published at euro2day.gr - and of course it was not disproved by anyone - we read the following dialogue: The President of the Eurogroup is taking the floor and says: "I will ask the IMF to join a program, even if it does not give money, before it closes the issue with the debt". Tomsen intervenes in the debate: 'This is an interesting proposal that we can discuss. We should go to the board with a schedule and give money later." Then followed by the - justified reaction from Tsakalotou: "If that is the choice, then it is the worst of the worst for Greece. We have negotiated a hard program with the IMF on condition that it will come with a program and say that the debt is viable in order to return a page. The participation of the IMF must be based on the fact that it must say that the debt is sustainable." That is what Mr Tsakalotos said at the Eurogroup. He called the Prime Minister and Mr. Tsipras told him not to accept the proposal, Dieselblum and Thompsen. Three weeks later, you, the MPs of the Co-Population, will vote for the "great" of the memorandum to get the worst solution for which Mr. Tsakalotos said it is the worst and will create a political crisis in Greece. This is therefore a real political vatar at the expense of the citizens and especially the economically weaker. Really, what will the Prime Minister say today to political editors? Will he go tell them he'll wear a tie or wear a phase? Or will he avoid talking? He says Mr Tsakalotos - and what I am telling you is important - according to the text that leaked: 'We have made enormous efforts. But if one of the institutions says that debt is not sustainable, then there is no clear solution that the markets want. If I signed this now, I would create a huge political crisis in Greece and if that were done, I need more time to think." In other words, Mr Tsakalotos was more concerned and concerned about the political crisis, despite losing the debt, losing the quantitative relaxation, losing the eggs and baskets for the country. I don't see any political crisis, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u268	Is that how you get it?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u269	You, ladies and gentlemen, can you understand everything, can you tell me when you went from 'we're going to tear up the memoirs with a law and an article' in the 'every evaluation and a memorandum'? What's that with you? Two reviews, two memos! You, the hundred and fifty-three, will vote again. The draft law for the Committee on Fisheries for the Mediterranean will be passed, because in front of the memoranda you have long stopped fishing. You will also allow me to make a point, because I have already heard Mrs Ahtsioglu say that the pension freeze for 2022 is not a reduction, but a freeze. Here I would like to ask Mr Petropoulos, who is responsible for this: How then does he justify that, according to the General Accounting Office of the State, this provision will save EUR 250 million? If it is just a freeze of growth rather than a secret reduction in pensions, is there any benefit of EUR 250 million for the public sector, Mr Petropoule? One more thing. I would remind you that from the cancellation of the development clause for the period 2018-2022 pensioners will lose a total of EUR 1.2 billion. These are not my elements, they are your elements, your ministry. It was supposed that the Katorugalou law had cut pensions to increase according to growth from 1-1-2018. I remember Mr Katrugalo saying that when the growth comes, pensions will increase. Now, with the Ahchioglu amendment, all scheduled increases are being cancelled until 2022 and, indirectly, the State General Accounting Office actually tells you that you are further reducing them by EUR 250 million. Cutting off pensions, at least cut the lies. Ladies and gentlemen, the country needs a design, a vision, a signal, a reference point. If we ask any citizen of this country "where does Tsipras go", "where does this government do it", "what their plan is", I fear you will see that no one understands, nor will. Much more, you don't even understand what you're doing either. I close my position by returning to our original comment to the dear Minister for Rural Development, saying that you do not need any help, Mr Apostleou, from opposition to sea. You've made them your own sea and proof is this draft law on fish, about "fish" MPs, about "fish" citizens - you think - who all download them, eat them all and don't make their minds work. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] I, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA and ANEL, after you react, will ask you this: How many of you will you speak today? Why are you hiding again? Why didn't you, like us, demand that the Opposition open a list of speakers to hear what you are saying about the secret pension reductions or the new Memorandum measures? Silence. Your silence in answer to everyone! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u270	Is that how you draw the conclusions?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u271	Mr. Theonas, please. Mr Athanasios Theocharopoulos, Parliamentary spokesman for Democratic Partnership, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u272	Minister, you've been left alone today. You only have with Mr. Petropoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u273	Can't we hear you?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u274	You have been left alone to defend what you do not defend. They put in your fish bill, fishing, prerequisites for a process of lenient inadmissibility.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u275	Others said that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u276	You'll hear them again, Mr. Apostleu. You'll hear them all the time. As long as you legislate in this way, the unacceptable, you will have our hard criticism. A few days ago the government's majority voted here in Parliament for new austerity measures of 5 billion euros. Today it is here to amend these provisions to the most important one. In fact, these provisions come in the form of amendments to the debate on the ratification of the amended agreement establishing the General Fisheries Commission for the Mediterranean, completely derogating the parliamentary procedure. After all, the bill also speaks of fish smuggling, but you've been smuggling hopes all the time. You probably have the logic of "fake eyes" in your entire policy. This is your logic and is linked in this way even with this bill, which you have really screwed up in all areas. That's the reality, no matter how bothering you. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, you are constantly voting for extermination measures and the evaluation does not say to close. What about the crucial issue of public debt? Even today no one knows what the government's positions are on the question of public debt. The government was saying that it would clear up the measures if the debt was not set. Debt has not been settled, the Prime Minister has not put on the tie, and despite the fact that it has not been regulated, not only have the measures not been cleared up, but we are discussing new measures today. That's the reality. So have you achieved something to restructure the public debt? Nothing. The government had to close the negotiations as a whole, not first measures and then debt. All together, quantitative relaxation, imprudent primary surpluses and not inevitable high primary surpluses for many years, debt regulation. He didn't do it. He voted first and then he negotiates on the rest. With inefficiency and delusion, however, we risk not taking the regulations that had been guaranteed in previous years, not even the 2012 regulations. The communiqué propaganda, however, cannot last long and is unfortunately succeeding in mocking it. From the humiliation of the parliamentary process today, we are also going through the self-armourism of the rulers with what we hear in arguments. I will explain: After the heavy statements on resignation and vote, you have brought and voted for a tax reduction. Now you come with a change in the wording, by moving a single phrase, to open the way to speeding up the tax reduction, since, as it turns out, if it is decided that the tax reduction should come earlier, instead of 2020, the government, in agreement with the institutions, will be able to bring about amendments to the tax-free version. But this new change once again completely dissolves the account of your so-called social policy. This new reversal in the order of words - because that is what the troika forced you to do, I will not change, I will not rename the term 'troika' with the term 'institutions', as used by you - actually restricts the role of the Greek Government again. You demonstrate the 'left' - within introductory terms your word - policy and the question of the complete deregulation of industrial relations. Since you have not prevented the door of team redundancies from opening, since you have indirectly legislated the payroll lockout, you yourself dismantle your account of restoring collective agreements. What did you do? You initially agreed to extend their suspension for two years until 2018, while it was essentially predicted that when the previous medium-term, in 2016, would have ended this process. You extended, therefore, why you were unable to negotiate effectively - you lost this too - and you arrived to bring in August 2018, the previous arrangement, in May. You come a few days later and bring back - in fact you get out - and on the 20th of August of 2018, you also undo this date and connect the return theoretically to the end of the memoranda. Such a "success" in negotiation really couldn't be imagined either by the workers or by the entire Greek people! We have Mr Tsakalotos today an analysis of capitalism - an analysis made us at the beginning of the model - just talking to us about a serious amendment from five. While we have amendments to tax, pensions and collective bargaining, which are not innocent of the change in order and the further commitment requested, he says: ‘What can we do? Our opponents are not single," while your Government is "single" in this strategy? In fact, a very'single' strategy. If we take every day what you state, what the government officials say, you will see a "single" strategy. Of course, he admits that 'all play both for debt and for quantitative relaxation'. He came to say today that 'Everything is playing'. We also had the Minister of Labour say: 'Don't shout, it's not cut. It is a 'freeze' of pensions of EUR 250 million in 2022, which are substantially cut down, as there will be no expected increase. Of course, we also had Mr Tsakalotos mentioning at the same time that "the image created by the Greek press in May". "In the international press, things are much better," he says. It is not because of the inefficient negotiation, but in the press, according to Mr Tsakaloto. If you think that these arguments can convince the Greek people at the moment, you really are deeply naughty. Of course, there will be a freeze on pensions by 1-1-2023. This is where you commit the next government. We told you that you were committing the next government because you probably thought the New Democracy would come, but you might also commit the next one, because you are sure you would never come back - what we told you - after this policy. It doesn't explain otherwise, to bind all subsequent governments with this policy. However, it has not all been enough, ladies and gentlemen, but you are once again putting your hand on all these issues. By the Katorugalou law, to be specific, the pension freeze went until 2018. It was then extended until 2021. Now you are bringing new regulation on this issue up to 2022 with the EUR 250 million. Why am I saying that? I say this because I want to say that the EUR 250 million freeze for those who have not read exactly what the explanatory statement says. So you say in the explanatory statement incredible things. That proves the way you think. The explanatory statement shows governmental thought. The government act is the articles that exist. Your thoughts are the explanatory statement and it seems that the troika has entered the government's thoughts and the explanatory statement, because the explanatory statement changes what you planned in May. So you say about pensions that you choose "this freeze from all measures, what respects the principles of social solidarity, equality and proportionality, and that this option will allow you to release resources to support and other social costs in which Greece is lagging behind against other countries, such as the costs of education, health, etc.". According to your explanatory statement this will result in adequate protection for vulnerable social groups. Do you freeze pensions in 2022 and do you, as you say in the explanatory statement, in favour of vulnerable social groups, in favour of protection and social justice? These arguments, these lies, which are self-proof to be lies, can they convince anyone today? Honestly, is there even one Member of the government majority who can support these here in relation to the pension freeze? In the opinion of the Court of Auditors, ladies and gentlemen, 'the delay in such a long time makes it impossible to express a sound assessment of the country's budgetary situation and the financial capacity of the retired people of the public sector', as well as the fact that the invoicing savings do not justify intervention in pension expenditure. This view of the Court of Auditors expresses the grim reality. We are committed to extremely painful measures and all this without a safe assessment of the country's budgetary situation in 2023. The only safe result, which this policy will have, is the progressive one - only here, you are making progress - impoverishment of pensioners. After you are mocking once again by saying that there is a need to strengthen social spending, why has the government still not solved any of the existing problems that could increase revenue and reduce expenditure, such as the issue of tax evasion, the smuggling of fuel that has become a serial? Why does he insist on an easy solution, painful for the citizen? The answer is obvious, of course, if we consider what has been revealed in the previous period on this matter and on the amendments and on various issues brought by your Government. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Apostleou, we cannot proceed in this way. Minister, on your own issues, as rural development and fisheries are serious issues for the country's productive reconstruction, you have done absolutely nothing at all at this time. There is no programme which 'run's' and actually creates new jobs at the moment. You have money, EUR 19 billion this seven years, which are essentially there because of painful negotiations. So this money is not being exploited at the moment in a way that will be productive, which will create investment, create new jobs, bring young farmers to the profession, create a new system of advisory services, what really involves a productive reconstruction plan. As far as fisheries and rural development are concerned, only taxes, overtaxes, at all levels. And, of course, no use, no use at all of the resources that you have at your disposal. The country cannot go ahead with this negotiation and with the nonexistent productive reconstruction plan in all areas, with the most characteristic sector of rural development and fisheries. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to say once again that we need to change the lines, to set up a progressive plan for overcoming the crisis, without populism, without delusion. The Democratic Reconciliation is here, working systematically for it. We are not going to let the country in this situation sink through policies, whether in negotiation or in the internal political scene, which are ineffective and lead not only to the expansion of the deadlocks but also to a new deadlock. This situation must be stopped and we must finally be able to give our country a vision, so that it can come out of the crisis within the European Union and the Eurozone, so that extreme nationalist voices do not come back, which cannot solve the painful problems today of Greek society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u277	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, thirty-one students and students and four teachers from the 16th Municipal School of Chania. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, my colleague, Evangelos Venizelos, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u278	Ladies and gentlemen, just twenty days ago the House passed Memorandum 3 plus, Memorandum 4 and opened the way to the ongoing memorandum until the debt was repaid. Unfortunately, the degrading development of the Eurogroup meeting of 22 May has taken place. Nor was the assessment completed, nor the disbursement of the infamous instalment for the payment requirements of July, nor was the depressing debt solution, which would allow the government to find any pretext, decided at that meeting. Should the Greek Parliament, in other words the parliamentary majority, think about what it has done over the last two and a half years, for the second time in twenty days? How is this second crisis developing in the crisis, in fact, when we were about to get out of the memorial cord in January - February 2015? What has happened in the country? Because all we are now living is due to the fact that the country has opened up a new world-wide cycle and, above all, a very large cycle of uncertainty. We are now paying and will pay for decades for this national retreat, this crisis of confidence that is not the confidence of foreigners, partners to Greece, but is primarily Greece's confidence in itself, in the confidence of society towards the political system. This national defiance is causing huge costs. And costs are summarized in the inability to define and implement a national strategy. What is mainly what has happened since January 2015? It is - I would say, technically, the dramatic worsening of the dynamic debt. It is sufficient to make forecasts of the annual growth rate more unsustainable in order to create an avalanche, to create a dynamic shortfall in terms of debt, to make the debt unsustainable, to lead the country to a negotiating deadlock in relation to issues that, whether solved or launched in 2012 with great intervention in the debt. Why have debt sustainability studies changed? Because the forecasts have changed in relation to growth rate. Why did the forecasts change in relation to growth rate? Because it ruined what was built with trouble by December 2014 and, above all, because all the signs of optimism, confidence and perspective were lost. Then what happened? Then came the complete submission without any resistance, without any plan, without even specific and substantiated demands on the mining of creditors, who, of course, also have very important strategic differences confessed to one another. The naive myths, new generation myths, myths for the debt, for the ties, for the QE, for the return to the markets, for the development package, which will come to solve the problems of the Greek economy and, in the meantime, none of what constitutes this route is. At times the government shapes transitory myths, lasting a few days, for everything to the contrary. We have never had conflicting myths before about all of the scientists, but also the completely opposite: as a promise, as a narrative. The result is that we have no longer entered a Memorandum 4, for which we have spoken, not in Memorandum 4 plus with the supplementary measures of the amendments of today's, but in a lasting Memorandum forty-five years, as our friend, Mr. Viser, said the other day in an interview with the newspapers of his country, Austria, where Greece is explaining why it is heading forty-five years. That's the result. The big question here is why should the government come today to clarify after only twenty days or vote, correcting the provisions it has adopted? Because in the infamous negotiation, which does not exist, it is an illusion of negotiation, it has no opportunity to put forward any arguments and it does not really have any line of resistance. Why? Because there is no worthy system, because there is no ideological criterion, because, as I said twenty days ago, SYRIZA has been ideologically and politically liquidated. There's no solid condition. He can't have peaks, corners. It is ready to hire the shape of the container that is offered to it each time and, of course, the container is narrowed each time. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Now we have full proof of the policy of the liquid situations, which I spoke about twenty days ago. As far as pensions are concerned - look at pensions - I said on 18 May that the financial benefit resulting from the abolition of the legislation for days, Mrs Katrugalou, increases pensions is 3.3 billion. Because the pension increase clause is half of GDP growth plus half inflation. Even if as a GDP increase we take the real and not the nominal one, by 2021 we have an increase of 9.5 billion. If we take the nominal data into account, the increase is 12 billion. The loss for pensioners is 3.3 billion and the loss of the entire 2022 is now added. They fight, I see, various analysts and the government, if the additional write-down for pensioners is 90 million, 250 million. But look, with this calculation, it is either 500 if we take into account the real GDP growth or 750, if we take into account nominal. Total loss exceeds 3.5 billion. Read the previous bill and the explanatory statement. There's a gray line. There are countermeasures that are unsubstantiated, unfunded, 3.5 billion. These are the losses of the retired. That is what the government meant from the previous bill. Not to talk now about the explicit extension of the suspension of the power of collective agreements, which is an act of symbolic, degrading and general anti-constitutional powers, in order to speed up the implementation of cuts, such as the reduction of duty-free, in breach, as we said, of Article 78, but also of Article 43 of the Constitution. All of this is explained by the government's involvement, by its imprisonment in the great austerity. He accepted the high primary surpluses before he had an elementary solution to the issue of the interest curve. Here we have accepted primary surpluses of 3.5% with Tsipras formula, 3.5%, plus 1%, again 3.5%, where 1% enters and exits are the infamous countermeasures and no one says that in 2022 for accounting reasons we have the accumulation of interest in the grace period 2012-2022. One thing is the priority now: the normalisation, the accounting of interest 2022, 2023, 2024 and 2026. Then you can talk seriously about the primary surplus. First you will normalise the interest curve, then you will have a serious conversation about the possible interest rate on the markets, the reality, after a fundamental debate about a proper growth rate for ten years - not for for forty-five years, it is a scientific fantasy of this assessment for for forty-five years, in an unknown perspective of the world - and then you will see what is going to happen with the primary surplus. The reversal of the terms is the absolute imprisonment of the country in the absence of a strategy. And the debt is avenged. Avenges psalmology and vulnerability for 2012. It is not enough for anyone to come in and say 'we lick where we spit' or 'we called you germans'. We regard this as a title of honor when some people speak it. A title of honor, because it's a title of honor to curse you and be slandered by someone who doesn't have a conscience of his patriotic responsibility. Let's go further now. The deeper theory of debt, with which you have disciplined part of society, is that everything will be solved out of the way, without effort, easily, with an intervention made by the partners, by a charismatic move again, while there is no solution if we are not organized around a recovery plan, by a growth model, if the growth is not financed, if the banking system is not back on its feet, unless there is a national synergy around a goal. What do you request, ladies and gentlemen of the government and of the majority, for the debt? Say, what do you want? A fundamentally friendly statement of general wording, as Mr Tsakalotos says now? Do you want what they give you? What they've prepared and given will be sufficient? Do you know what has happened since July 2015? You have accepted and signed several times, in May 2016, in November 2016, on 22 May that there will be no other nominal reduction, such as the one that took place in 2012, i.e. no other nominal haircut. In addition, however, the parametric changes made will not bring additional costs to lenders. Therefore, there will be no reduction in present value at the cost of creditors. Now, the stabilization of interest rates, which is the short-term measure decided last year, is the conversion of the variables at a constant cost of Greek. That's why the 2060 yield will be so small. We are being returned to measures that were abolished in 2015 as a "pilot" for the barbaric end of the second programme. They give nothing new and will not give parametric changes that increase their own indirect costs. All margins the ESM has to make financial operations. This, at no cost to the Member States, which are shareholders and partners. The margin is too narrow and you have made it even closer to this tragic story of the earlier primary surplus. What do you want for the International Monetary Fund? Is he an enemy or a friend? To remain means without funding? To remain with funding? What program? Third or fourth? Leaving? I would tell you that what is best for the country is the IMF to keep the attitude that will not cause problems in the Member States, in their parliaments and in their courts, regarding the smooth completion of the programme and the transition to the next phase. For after the end of the third programme, in August 2018, what do you request? Are you asking to make use of the rest of the third programme? Are you asking for IMF funding, which will replace Europeans' reduced or non-existent funding? What do you want? I would tell you to ask what we had won in November 2014: a preventive credit line, with the balances of the third loan and with any participation of the IMF, which will otherwise be involved - and will be involved anyway because the ESM regulation provides for it - as an expert. For the country's development future, for banks, for investments, for liquidity, for the real economy, what do you want? QE? But what does the QE mean in terms of liquidity for the economy? Can corporate bonds join the QE? What level? Even if it's all right. What should we ask for? Two things I've said, but no response from the government. A system of specific European deposit guarantee for the Greek banks, with the rest of the approved funding for Greece, because there is no pan-European deposit guarantee system in order to obtain a banking system and the possibility of financing. And secondly, a special subsidiary for Greece of the European Investment Bank to make this leverage over the so-called non-bank funds, which are mainly Community development funds. You do not have an exit plan for a simple reason either: because you now have only a raw desire for power. This is enough to prolong the life of a government, but it is also sufficient to prolong the anxiety of an entire country. You damage this way, you damage the future of the nation. And that's really unforgivable.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u279	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Constantine Pavlides from SYRIZA has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u280	Thank you, Mr President. Honestly, ladies and gentlemen, I do not know what is humiliating. I've heard many lines here. We have several satirical shows on Greek TV, such as Radio Arvila and others. It's good to watch them and leave the line for these broadcasts. I do not know whether an amendment to extend the time of raising a pension with a fisheries bill is humiliating. You've obviously confused the term "modernizing". It's a humiliating society to lose its wealth. It's humiliating to build a political system so, living with borrowers, a society that lives with borrowers, a client system that lives with borrowers and is now forced to legislate with orders and manuscripts of lenders. It is humiliating one in four citizens of this place to be unemployed. Humiliating is one in two children under twenty - five to be unemployed. It's humiliating that a family has three unemployed at home. It is humiliating that a free professional after twenty years of work cannot have insurance and have access to medical care. It's humiliating when you led free professionals to the self-defense, because they owed 5,000 euros to TEBE. It's humiliating to live in the dark because you can't pay your PPC. That's humiliating. You have obviously not experienced humiliation and it is important that you do not use such conditions that you have never experienced. Ladies and gentlemen, following the '15 summer agreement and the second September elections, we committed ourselves and served a specific political design: Compliance with the agreed, financial results within the objectives of the programme, implementation of the reforms, implementation of a parallel project centred on development measures, possible use of European programmes, reform of the public administration, protection of those who carried the crisis on their backs with strong policies on social welfare and health, tackling unemployment by strengthening employment. The position that the country has complied with the commitments is also recognised by the European institutions and by most European governments. The financial results not only responded to their goals, but also brought their impressive achievements in the area of surpluses, disproved the Cassandras of destruction inside and outside the country. Indicators of the Greek economy at short-term levels are encouraging. This is confirmed by the economic recovery figures in the increase in industrial production, in processing, in exports and in the increase in retail sales. The development of 0,4 GDP for the first quarter of 2017, despite any estimates each had on material phenomena, shows that the bases have been laid in the Greek economy for another uplift course. The figures of "ERGAN" for two hundred and fifteen thousand new jobs in the first five months of 2017 and even with increased percentages of full-time contracts give us the highest performance in the last fifteen years since 2001. Our route we walked it both at the level of the obligations and at the level of the results. There are many governments and there are many political forces who recognize it to us. Unfortunately more outside the country than this Parliament. Some people owe their own obligations in this country and in this people, and this is a political position that we must both state and defend and defend all of us without micro-political purposes and second thoughts. No one has to lose from it. Winners will only be the society that suffers seven years now and the prospects of this place. This thing they owe, especially at this time of the economy, is the message they need to send in order to shape the steady growth conditions and in the medium and long term. That was what our compromises served. That is what their people should do. We insisted on the need to settle the debt, the time and the quantitative determination of surpluses, because we know well that the clarity of the debt, the clear road we have asked for is the sure way to provide a positive result for the sacrifices of the Greek people, so that growth can grow on solid legs, create investment, strengthen employment, leave the inhabited rates of unemployment and reduce GDP, keep the insurance system alive, turn new scientists back to our country into an environment that fairly rewards their knowledge so that they do not live in working middle-ages as employees. We have insisted on self-evident, served with all our political forces, whether they were compromises or positive bills, this objective, and that is what we are continuing to do. We are choosing to close the debate on the prerequisites, whether they be necessary or absurd, because many of them have been absurd in the past, and now, to leave the Eurogroup to a net table the debate on debt and growth, so as not to give any alibi to creditors and institutions to continue this impasse debate on the prerequisites and to throw the debt can into the ditch. I don't know if anyone from the opposition has testified another tactic against the negotiation. And if we're gonna hear it. What do you suggest? Shouldn't we close the negotiation? Should we turn the prerequisites back? Refuse them? I think we refused all three scenarios in the Eurogroup in May, not because they had a partial write-down of debt - but because they would give a wrong signal to the markets and the investment environment. No one is investing and no one is buying bonds in a country where the debt is not sustainable and is not taken from any initiatives for this. The IMF has promised to participate in the programme since 2015. Two years later and fourteen months before the end of the program has still not decided on its position. Berlin uses the IMF's presence as a "yes" card to the IMF its policy of austerity and recession, "no" to the IMF of active debt write-down. The different positions and estimates of the IMF and Berlin must find a common denominator, but a common denominator capable of giving the green light to both the European Central Bank and the markets for the prospects of the Greek economy. No one can predict the situation following the German elections, the presence or not of the IMF in the programme, the prospect of the status of quantitative relaxation, the treatment of overcompensated economies of large countries, such as France and Italy, the budgetary stability pact and the management of German surpluses. You're charging us the obsessions of our lenders. I don't know what helps this place at such a difficult time when everyone outside recognizes the sacrifices of the Greek people and the implementation by the government of the agreed targets and the achievement of the goals when everyone looks out at the moon, New Democracy looks at the finger. When the Cooperation Government SYRIZA - ANEL called for a single front to the irrational requirements of lenders, the New Democracy openly expressed the IMF positions within Greece. When the negotiation reminded the IMF to ask for new measures every day and for new measures, Mr Mitsotakis went to the German Minister of Finance and asked for elections and presented his own financial programme. We were invited to sign what they gave us or leave to sign those who have no ideological obsession with collective agreements and labour. There can be no national line on debt without direct and clear intervention by the Vice-President of the European Allies at the last moment in the next Eurogroup. I am pleased that Mr Mitsotakis has dared to call some of the creditors' demands unreasonable. However, it remains in front of a dilemma: whether it supports the country against the intransigence of the partners and the IMF secreto with Berlin, or it will choose again to hide behind the German Finance Minister with a cheap micro-political feasibility, risking the future of the economy and the country as a whole. Times, ladies and gentlemen, they are not easy for anyone, but especially for the Greek society that has been trying hard for years now. Let everyone stand to the level of political responsibility, at the end of the four-year period, anyway we will all be judged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u281	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Christos Stakouris from New Democracy has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u282	Mr. President, then who's gonna talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u283	Then there's Mr. Theocratic and then you, Mr. Loverdo. Unless Mr Megloumoustakas, who has been generally speaking at some point as a parliamentary representative, was preceded by Mr Megloumustakas.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u284	After Mr. Theocratic, I'll talk to him.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u285	Good. Mr Stavura, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u286	Ladies and gentlemen, today's debate is the culmination of self-determination of the government, which has brought the House, even in plenary, and not even in committee, a number of prerequisites for the completion of the evaluation in the form of ministerial amendments, all of which have been delayed, in an irrelevant draft law on the ratification of a fisheries convention in the Mediterranean. The fish stinks from the head! It is a question of the absolute benefit of the parliamentary procedure, so that the amendments are not debated in substance and that citizens are not informed in depth. Proof of a surplus of political hardship and a deficit of principles. However, the fact that the assessment has so far not been completed solely by the government, since it has not yet completed the prerequisites, which it had committed itself, despite the constant reassurances of the government officials, whom I am presenting in the Minutes, that the country has fully complied with its obligations. Today it turns out that this had not been done. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Stagiras, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Lies, negotiators and self-disputes are the tripartite of government failure. In fact, the government has been so dissatisfied that no denial is capable of smuggling it. The government, which constantly sets the bar high and permanently passes through the bottom, puts supposedly'red' lines, which it stumbles very quickly. It continues to bring up theatrical performances of supposedly tough negotiations abroad, but it turns out that it is only internally negotiated, only with its MPs, in order to help them conspicuously to meet the constant retreats. It refers to spectacular successes and eventually leads to painful compromises. She talks about resistance to foreigners and cynically accepts, as her officials did, that the bills are written abroad. He promised debt write-off, went to his settlement, moved to the clean solution, so that today she could just have a good word. It says that it will not implement the measures without a solution to the debt and it today brings additional measures without having ensured something about the debt. Without strategy, he keeps moving in his logic by seeing and doing. She's constantly retreating and trapped in her signatures. It accepted new austerity measures, even after the expiry of the third memorandum, recommending the fourth memorandum. It accepted high primary surpluses. Every Eurogroup adds one year - now for five years, 3.5% of GDP primary surpluses - to trap the country in multi-annual, long-term austerity and remains, of course, caught in the decision of the Eurogroup of May 2016, which it has signed. According to this decision, medium-term debt measures will be taken when? After the end of the program. And under what conditions? Provided that the country fully implements its commitments and most importantly, in 2018, it is considered necessary. By who? The institutions. Ladies and gentlemen, with the government's amendments, austerity is expanding and measures are evaporating. There are measures up to 2022, now bringing the total account of SYRIZA and ANEL to EUR 14.5 billion. I repeat, EUR 14.5 billion. It's the heaviest, socially unjust and inappropriate Memorandum Account. It's an account you told us and it actually started from EUR 9 billion. It went up to EUR 12 billion and climbed up to EUR 14 billion and was made up today at EUR 14.5 billion. This is an absolute addiction in voting for austerity measures to the extent that fellow governmental Members do not have time to vote on them. We have said, however, that everything about power at all costs, in every way, by every means! Ladies and gentlemen, what is the point today? The issue is an integrated strategy, a coherent plan on four main axes. The first axis is the completion of the assessment, already due to the long-term delay the economy has been deprived of resources from the instalments that it should normally take on the basis of the updated memorandum - I am also conservative, I do not go to the 2015 Memorandum of May 2016, EUR 13.3 billion, so that the government has made an extensive internal lending, a stop to payments to the private sector, drying the economy from liquidity, sending the economy to recession and jeopardising the achievement of even the downward target for growth. Second axis, it is the implementation of structural changes that will convince partners and lenders that the growth potential they themselves had in their reports in 2014 is returning. Because the problem is that now their reports are at a growth rate of 1% for the next forty years, when their own reports were at a growth rate of 1.9% three years ago for this period. How's that gonna happen? By adopting an integrated strategy to change the productive model of the economy aimed at moving to a competitive and extroverted economy, by modernising their structure and functioning of the state, by improving quality and efficiency, limiting State embrace and promoting the internationalisation of education, training, lifelong learning, research and technological development, innovation and entrepreneurship. It is precisely the opposite of what the current government does with the draft law which promotes higher education. The third axis is the launching of an agreement on more realistic budgetary objectives. The government, unfortunately, accepted high primary surpluses for a long period. But it is not possible without lasting austerity, so it is also anti-developmental. Fourth and final axle, the implementation by creditors, as soon as possible, of substantial interventions to enhance the sustainability of the debt burden, particularly in the last two and a half years, which has been pending from 2012 and has not, in particular, been the responsibility of the lenders, yet. The New Democracy since May 2016 has submitted its proposals. Ladies and gentlemen, combining these initiatives on four specific axes can gradually lead the country out of the crisis. Their achievement, however, requires a reformist, serious, coherent, credible government, which will carry out structural changes and negotiate another fiscal policy, with more realistic budgetary objectives. The current government does not know either and, above all, does not want to implement them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u287	Thank you too, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, forty-three students and students and four educational attendances from the 2nd Gargalia Messinia Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] This is followed by Mr Anastassios Megalamustakas from the Association of Centres, as a parliamentary representative, for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u288	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will not dwell any further on the way we are legislating, as we have said this in the debate on the procedure, and I think that everyone here understands that this way of legislating is not a feature of our culture. It's something you were accusing before you, before you became a government, and you still do, unfortunately. You didn't bring any change at all, nothing new came with your co-government. I will go through the amendments and I believe I will be very brief in relation to the time you are giving me. I shall begin with Amendment 1062/68, which I think we should all be building in here, as you who had as a flag the 'no house in the hands of a banker', which you were talking about defending the poor and all of them, are today bringing an amendment that we do not understand how to defend what you were saying before becoming a government. You see what the citizens' reactions to auctions are, how the world accepts all this policy, and you come with this amendment to tell us what? That, according to the first paragraph of the amendment, the fee for use will not be paid by all the candidates but only by the successful tenderer. What do you do with that? My own reading and interpretation is that you want to do something similar to what happened in the channel auction, that there are 'fucking people' in there, who will have nothing to lose, and not even the amount of participation, to raise prices. So, we don't care to defend those who lose their house and save those who are going to bid? Also, the report by the General Accounting Office of the State tells us that the state will not have any loss. So, the same thing is to pay for the use fee one and the same is to pay the use fee for all those who participate in the auction? Has the Greek state not been wasted? It's paradoxical. As also, I am disturbed by what I am reading in paragraph 2 and paragraph 4 of this amendment, according to which the Minister decides which part of these fees will be allocated to the FIFG, the Court of Justice Finance Fund, which we are opposed to. If you want to show your social policy and social policy measures, you should strengthen another body rather than the FIFG. I have no wish at all to go into a break with the judges and the judiciary, I just think you would show that you really care about the people if this money were given to the OAED. We've seen how many unemployed there are. You do not fight unemployment with labour-employ­ment schemes, nor is unemployment being fought by persecuting our young people abroad, because that is how you have achieved this very small fall in unemployment. Five hundred thousands of young people, mostly, have left for the outside, as they cannot stand to fight in Greece with the aids and the privileged policy you are allegedly doing. Why, how are you gonna make a family with the help, the aid, which you want to say is a panacea? And that is clear from the countermeasures you have brought, because none of them can be described as developmental, unfortunately. We would therefore propose to this amendment that the money from the fees go to the OAED rather than to the OAED, because that is necessary for our society. Now, as regards Amendment 1058/64, which deals with duty-free, with this amendment, you are re-drafting the provision that allows for the speeding up of tax reductions not from 2020, as planned, but from 2019. In fact, you are making a different editorial wording. That's all cuffy is showing. Did you make a mistake in the translation? We can't figure out why, a month later, you're bringing us this correction. Say it clearly, so everyone will understand it. Because that's what I think is that the lenders didn't want to help you with this or they didn't accept what you wrote and you just did back. Where are the red lines? Where's your strong resistance? Why do you not state clearly that what the lenders want, we will serve and if they do not agree, we will not bring it into the House. We shall also talk about Amendment No 1059/65 on the status of collective agreements. We all remember, again before you became a government, what you were saying, the red lines you put for collective redundancies, that you would restore collective bargaining. And what are you doing with this amendment? You are making a hole in the water, in fact, as all this amendment proposes is that, by the end of the economic adjustment programme, it will not be as long as the medium-term budgetary strategy framework is in place. In Greece, for the last seven years, these two have been the same. I believe that you only do this to golden the pill, to grapple the ears of your MPs who ask them to vote on articles, provisions and bills that they do not believe themselves - and it is not something I say, but they say that, with a heavy heart, they will vote on them - and just to sweeten them a little, you give them something so that they have something to say when they go to their districts. Unfortunately, we are not going to get Greece out of the crisis. And that's not what the Greek people ask of you. As far as Amendment 1060/66 is concerned, you are extending the pension freeze until 2023 and it is not a trivial amendment, as has been mentioned by many. We have given the pensioners a light and said that, possibly, they may increase their pensions if the economy grows and it goes better, which, as you say, we will have surpluses. And now the government comes and gets it back. Is that how you bring hope to the world? These are the policies that have led the world to look at the central political scene with such disgrace. Many times I have faced our fellow citizens, who say "and why should we go to vote, since whoever comes out comes and brings the same things that the previous one did. I don't think that's what you wanted when you were fighting to get up to the government. That's not the new one. Do exactly what the previous ones did. You admit that today our city has been destroyed and what the lenders are doing. Is that the Left? You know that very well and your conscience tells you that you should not legislate like this, you should not behave like this, as we do not find any very small ray of light so that hope may recover. In conclusion, I shall also refer to Amendment No 1061/67, which we do not consider to be so negative. However, the first paragraph prevents us from voting for it. According to this, the accounts of all the members of parliament should be opened with the obligation of parliamentarians or elected representatives. Why? So we can lighten up the banking institutions a little? Is that what a left government has to bring? That's not it. We would vote in favour of this amendment, because in the second paragraph it says that the parties' loans cannot exceed 50% of their subsidies this year. That is very right, because we have seen what has happened in the past: the two largest parties in the country, which are and are responsible for the situation in which we are in, owe money, which they will never pay to the Greek people. And I say 'the Greek people', because the banks' recapitalisations were made with Greeks' money. We can see clearly that any red line you had, both in politics and in the codification of welfare and social state and in development-related issues, which we all call for in this country. So we understand that in the end you had nothing but'red' dawns - not red lines - which end the Greek economy and slowly end the Greek society. Unfortunately, we cannot go on like this. You must understand that the solution will come only if we go together with our lenders and ask them - always having a plan, which will not change if the government - what we deserve, the right, the hope of development. Because if growth does not come, there will be nothing left to stand in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u289	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The President of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, Mr Fofi Gennimata, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u290	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are following the absolute humiliation of the Prime Minister, his Government and his MPs. Mr Tsipras, I am sure that from somewhere you are watching us, as usual you are not in the Chamber on such a serious issue - take the decision, you are a bad Prime Minister, and if you are cutting the issue from the pan-Hellenics! He's not saving you anything! [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] After telling us about a measure we were loaded by 4.5 billion, and now new measures are being put in place. Both Mr Tsipras and his ministers assured us of two things. The first was that, with the adoption of the previous measures, we have completed the agreement with the lenders and now there are no loose ends on the Greek side. And the second was that a solution is now coming for the public debt and that he will wear a tie. Two commitments, two lies! What is left of you now, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA - ANEL? The humiliation. The humiliation of voting new provisions that reveal your secret commitments and stifles all your supposedly red lines. You assured us a few weeks ago that pensions would increase after 2018. But you have disguised yourselves. Freeze the pensions. And you did it first for 2021 and now you come and do it now for 2022. Cuts, cuts, ice on the ice! And, indeed, all of this at the same time that the evidence recently seen the light of publicity is tragic. Eight out of ten retired people live within the limits of impoverishment. You assured us that the influx and expansion of collective agreements would come back, not immediately as provided for by Law 4024/2011 but even in 2018. Now that date goes for a walk. And do you actually assign the whole thing to who? Tomsen. That's exactly what you did with the countermeasures. Open the way for worse duty settings. What does that mean? New burden on employees and retired persons. You allow lenders to apply the tax reduction one year earlier. Of course, we are voting against these provisions of shame, provisions which you do not dare bring under the normal parliamentary procedure, but which you are trying to pass - without any real debate as amendments to the ratification of an international convention - do not do so! - for fishing. But listen, no one gets caught in your net this time! Be sure, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA - ANEL! Once again you are brutally deceived of Parliament's institution. You refused to give the floor to the Members. With your vote you are sneezing the MPs. This debate concerns half Greece, half Greeks and you are looking at how to undo it through a few amendments. Listen, we are not prepared to legitimise this process! [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Ladies and gentlemen, as far as public debt is concerned, I fear that we will once again have a government defeat. And, unfortunately, that means defeat of the country. We will not actually get anything tangible and we will have the fourth Memorandum left without funding. Commission and austerity is your government's dowry for the new generation of our country. What specific positions will you come to the Eurogroup on 15 June, with which of all the narratives you have bombed us? And I ask you directly. Will you claim the implementation of the 2012 Eurogroup decisions, which included forecasts of lower debt levels in the medium term, smoothing the current financial ‘loss’ for 2020 and relaxing its funding? Will you claim the return of profits from Greek bonds - I remind you, are those 6 billion that you gave in 2015 to European bankers - or will you be content with reports of the type 'if','maybe', 'if necessary', 'if necessary', that is to say will you send the decision to the Greek bells and the moods of Mr Shoeble and Mrs Lagard? Because it looks like you're moving in this context. However, as the debt solution moves, the country is being caught up in objectives for unbearable primary surpluses for many years, the development perspective is being undermined, taking away measures for households and businesses. The commitments to high primary surpluses trap the country in dilemma, lasting austerity or Grexit. And you do not convince anyone when you complain that these measures may not be implemented. Who are you kidding? There is no heresy clause in all that you have voted on. We, on the basis of our debt to the country, tried - and we continue to try - with our constant interventions to the European socialists, to help to provide solutions and to address the unacceptable obsession of Mr Shoeble and of Europe's conservative circles. By the way, I would like to open up a parenthesis, because I would like to congratulate Jeremy Corbin on the significant increase in workers in the recent elections in the United Kingdom. It is a positive message that all European progressive forces must take advantage of. I'll be back to ours. Unfortunately, this government cannot make use of our own efforts and support for the European socialists, who had no government before them. We have said - and we repeat this - that the sooner they leave the place the better and leave the fairy tales for supposedly conciliation and dialogue on both sides. Now that they're with their backs on the wall, they come looking for accomplices and co-responsibles for their failure. We're not gonna do them a favor. Now, of course, we see that they have been back in the last few days with a new account. You're used to us in these transformations. Now you've started the development and investment fairy tales. Of course, after you have slit the memorials, after you have recovered national sovereignty, after you have abolished austerity, once you have again made proud of the pensioners, after you have implemented the parallel programme of Thessaloniki, you are now bringing growth with a coarse investment! In words, you build upper and lower. This is against you, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA - ANEL! [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] But the truth is that you are unable to implement a development policy. You have no plan or strategy. It is your ministers themselves who undermine investment and close the door to investors. You have neither the will nor the strength for reforms and changes progressive, twisting, ruptures that this place needs today. You're trapped in your ideas and in the state of rule. That's why you're not going far. The condemnation of the Greek people comes relentless. Ladies and gentlemen, to be clear, however, I would like to repeat this once again: only a strong government of broad popular support and a parliamentary majority can get the country out of the crisis safely, can strengthen its credibility, can move on to the necessary progressive reforms, negotiate reliably with our partners and bring concrete results for both debt and primary surpluses, and, of course, finally create this development shock that the country needs at the moment. Weak governments in polarisation and division will simply find themselves in front of new deadlocks. SYRIZA and the New Democracy refuse to agree. They prefer the logic of polarization and division, because they think that's how they hold or increase powers in small partitionism. That is why we are calling for a change in political relation and for the decisive reinforcement of the Democratic Integration and in society and in the House, so that national understanding can finally be promoted and a national line can be implemented, a national plan for the place, to get out of the crisis and the memorandums and to return the real hope for Greeks and Greeks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u291	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being held from the top Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, thirty one Canadian visitors as well as eleven other foreign visitors. We welcome you to the Greek Parliament. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The speaker of SYRIZA has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u292	Thank you, Mr President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all let us make it clear that, with today's amendments, no pensions are cut, no wages are paid or redundancies will be made, no auctions or new measures, because the opposition is saying a lot that is not the case. Not only does the negotiations continue and will it be closed for the benefit of the Greek people. What we started, we'll finish it. You, gentlemen, do not want the evaluation to be closed and are you now shouting about these simple reprints? Do you want the sacrifices of the Greek people to be lost? Do you want what has taken so many years to go to the bronto or do you see little of the measures as the Vice-President of the New Democracy said: 'Get so much more', and who knows how many others you didn't think of at all? Does it seem strange to you that the recasting in the articles and some simple additions or deductions without essential meaning to the amendments? Weird are the ones who brought us here and they have us in the commission. Funny is the memorial to which you put the country. You brought them, you bankrupt the country and put it in the memorials, you with your policies, scandals and money laundering. Mr. Venizelos spoke of a lack of patriotic responsibility. I don't mind if my name's Germany, those who don't have patriotic responsibility. patriotic responsibility was Akis Tsohatzopoulos, who, due to age and health problems, is sentenced out of prison and indicted for many more? Did Yiannis Papantoniou have patriotic responsibility, which is today with committed property, since, of course, 12 years have left him hanging around free and doing nothing? Around them was the party against the Greek people - are we paying today and will we also pay tomorrow - and are they talking about patriotic responsibility? Their colleagues, the ministers, sitting next to the chair that they were succeeding, didn't find anything when they were succeeded? Yesterday was Mr. Martinis, a convicted convicted, who reported the thousands of millions. Whatever rock one can pick up and look for, it finds that the country has been bankrupt, by a large percentage, by your scandals, gentlemen of counter-population. And keep talking and moving the finger! Mr. Brutsi, not the most humiliating process. The history of the future will remain in one law, an article - that cannot be forgotten - so that a Member cannot say, 'I do not vote for this article'. A law, an article! That's all they left us. Since this morning we have explained that we do not want to take the initiative of lenders, to deal with supposedly prerequisites and say, "When you act like this, we pass and finish the so-called tails." And do not, gentlemen, say, 'you are voting - you are voting'. You, of course, only voted for negative measures. On the contrary, we have the parallel program. Indicatively two and a half million uninsured in health, a humanitarian crisis card, etc., and we have the countermeasures that you have made so much fun of. But such was the negotiation that, when we got back on one issue, we won on another. You're talking about the FBI, too. It's a great effort. And in what she said, Mr. Brutsi, Mrs. Gennimata, the President of the Democratic Association, that: "You can't do...", I would like to say this. Only we can make such motifs. Those working on the insurance system say that for seventy years now the funds had to be consolidated. Why didn't you do it for 50 years? Only SYRIZA can do cross-sections and mess with the system. You can't. Do you know why? Because you're the system. I shall say a few words, Mr President, in particular on the amendment by the Ministry of Justice, which amends two three things, not so essential. But I have the opportunity to make it clear that the borrowers are not at risk from electronic auctions. And I'm explaining why. Because we already have the institutional framework for protecting borrowers at three levels. Firstly, those who do not have bankruptcy, natural persons, households, as the world says, have kept the Katseli law alive. It will apply and will apply. It was indeed extended for the tax office and for the insurance funds. The small traders must pay great attention to this, namely those who have a shop as an individual business. They must know that they can join the law of Katseli when they have many debts. So there's no danger from the electronic auction the household or the small merchant, who can enter the law of Katseli. Now after the resolution of Law 4469/2017, the extrajudicial mechanism, the shoppers are also protected, namely those who have bankruptcy. Of course, the New Democracy, when it was time, was with the banks when it passed this law. That is to say, now that shoppers also have a positive use that is easy to do - and in any case, for a deaf can't bear the burden of society - they can get into the extrajudicial mechanism. No 4469 has been voted and will be valid as of August. All over the country, the information and service centres of borrowers have been set up and set up. We also have the Code of Conduct, which is valid and has been amended by our Government since 2016, in the most favourable way for borrowers, for example, with extended deadlines for replying from the borrower so that it is not easily described as ‘uncooperative’. The use of technology has been widened in justice. We have the electronic deposit of an application, the electronic plaque, electronic subpoenas, electronic meetings, etc. It is reasonable for the technology to reach the stage of the case and the enforcement to be enforced. I can barely recall some positive things that have been introduced by the Ministry of Justice with electronic auctions at the stage of Political Procedure. And what Mr Megamystakas said is completely out of reality. Participants give 30% guarantee, so we get rid of the appearance of virtual candidates who were actually blackmailers. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Yes, Mr President, I will not go into the other amendments. I'm hanging up with her, and I'm finishing up. It makes sense that the payee will give it to the payee and go to the FTL. Finally, in other words, it is inspired that the auctions will be conducted transparently so that no debtor falls victim to sub-world circuits. So far, ladies and gentlemen, for decades the underworld has been dominating the auction procedures. We all knew that, but did we do something? It's a chance to break these abscesses and break that way. So the opposite narratives do not tell us, the opposition tells them. For example, when we negotiated on labour, they said 'the government is delaying because of its ideas'. Then when we succeed in the ten that we wanted, say the eight, they say, "you're humiliated about the two that you didn't succeed" and they silence the eight that we have achieved, which of course don't care why we did it. And our difference lies precisely in the fact that the opposition is the same that continued within the memoranda to do the same, that of the country, scandals, hatreds, corruption and that all powers are exercised against the people. That's our difference. Taking the country out of the comitology and the memorials, powers are exercised in favour of the people and serve them, and that is where the arrogance of counter-population, which are already struggling to enter the lists, already sew costumes. You guys put on suits! Win the polls, but when the time comes, you'll get what happened to England and we'll have won the elections again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u293	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Andreas Loverdos has the floor from the Democratic Independence, followed by the Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn Mr Christos Pappas.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u294	Mr President, please, on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u295	There is no staff, Mr. Comrade. A reference to your speech did not make you anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u296	He said I was out of reality. I ask you ten seconds, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u297	Mr. Bigfoot, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u298	I won't need a minute, Mr President. Thank you. My question was why not pay fees too. Don't they use the electronic platform? They do. Why not pay when they want to get in? It's not a great amount. I also do not think it unreasonable to give the money, instead of the FIFG, to an institution that needs more, such as the OAED. You know that very well, and I don't think I was really out of reality.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u299	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Loverdos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u300	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that the speech by the President of the Democratic Integration has retained the phrase that we will not legitimise today's process. The government's choice to vote today on the last prerequisites for the closure of the evaluation, which had to be completed for some time now, marks your failure, respond to your duties as regards the governance of the country, but builds and fills a glass of bitter content, which you will have to drink, as Mr Tsipras and Mr. Kammens and you are the fifty-five Members of the majority who support them. This glass will be bitter, because it contains all the measures you have agreed, all the policies you have said that you claim and failed and all the hatred, all the poison, which you have put to the Greek people for years, at the expense of your political opponents, at the expense of everything that goes beyond your own policies. Today literally in the nearest five tours in front of the deadlock that has led you to another failed so-called negotiation, you are bringing about a vote and other policies that once again affect the interests of Greek citizens, such as the freezing of reduced pensions for another year - we are going to 2023 - such as the content of the reduction of duty-free - we have said so - such as electronic auctions that since 1 January of the new year - we have said this for too long - will not cover the first residence with an objective value of 140,000 euros and, of course, the last of all, labour relations in the other shrine of SYRIZA and its supposedly progressive worldview. When do you vote for these arrangements, ladies and gentlemen of the Couple? Literally at the turn of time with the sieve on the bone and the strap on the neck that Richos said, but from the back, because you torn apart are not going, because you can't. And you are voting in a procedure - and we have told you this in the morning - which is the worst possible, which has no precedent, which looks like nothing and the worst of your two and a half years, which did not even make one of your Members react. It did not make a Member of your Parliament react and say no, even though in your protests we understood that you are ashamed of it, but from the result you are not just ready but coldly determined for everything. I said this in my speech last week that your political failure is directly proportional to your social analgesia. You are the party and the majority of the House, which reduced pensions more than all the governments of the crisis and you are subject to deep political amoracism. Count here in return. I repeat measures and others in return. We are addressing the Finance Minister, who is responsible for the country's progress and the supposed negotiation he is negotiating, to tell him that what we have read in his interview and not what has been attributed to him for the wording, which, if he is good, covers him, that is to say, does not constitute a policy which would enable the government to demand consensus and political consensus. Ladies and gentlemen, for the public debt, you have no chance of calling for political consensus, because you dare not say the policy you have. You have bilingualism. But you say outside, but you're trying to tell the Greek people. You are bilingualians, and you are not bilingualists of misunderstandings, you are bilingualists, because you cannot accept the policies of 2012, the policies of 2011, to be precise since July with the small haircut, the October 2011 policies, the February 2012 policies with the PSI, the OSI, 2012 with the written assurance that with the end of the program we would have parametric changes. You cannot accept this because you cannot accept that the parametric changes are a national objective. It is now, of course, what your Members, Mr Mandas, are saying here as a Parliamentary representative, the Deputy Minister, Mr Amanatidis, who was with him in a public debate. Slowly say it. The Minister also said so in an interview, but you cannot say that as your main political reason. You are ashamed, because you will have to confess what your services do when they respond to parliamentary control, which accepts the 2012 policies or your legal services when they defend the PSI in international courts, in the international area. But this refusal to admit the truth leads the country to a great deal of trouble, because you refuse to identify the Greek debt with its great peculiarity in relation to the amount of its present value. It is very different that the present value - it is original in the European data - of the Greek public debt in relation to the rest of the Eurozone and the others of the European Union that they owe, which have a high public debt. However, since you refuse to make this assumption, you are creating in Greece the problem that you cannot create comparative data and show a relative supremacy that the country has, which would help it in its claims for public debt. When all of this is done for reasons of micropolitical wickedness, when all of this is done, because you are ashamed to say that you have made mistakes all these years, this leads you to the inability to propose a national line and therefore nobody knows why you are calling him to consent. That is why we have all told ourselves from the area of the Democratic Partnership, ladies and gentlemen of the Couple, that asking us now, as the Prime Minister did at the Association of Greek Industrys, consensus, it is obvious that you are asking for a divider for your political responsibility. We will not become part of the division of your political responsibility. You own it all. However, this is a debate from Wednesday, Thursday and then, when we do well to go to the Eurogroup. It's another conversation. [[At this point, the end of the time bell is ringing by the honourable Member.]] But it is important, Mr President, that I close with this phrase - something for today. You brought an unacceptable procedure. Mr Theocharopoulos also gave you a'sheet of figs'. He told you - and the President-in-Office seemed to accept it at the time - at least to open a list of speakers. Oh, no! You didn't accept anything. You appeared to be determined and cold performers. That's why you're going to vote all on your own. DISY departs from the farce of this procedure, which abolishes the parliament. We are not going to participate in the abolition of the House. Keep going on your own.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u301	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. My colleague, Christos Pappas, has the floor. Mr President, Mr Leventis, it's you after Mr. Pappa. I have announced he will speak. I'm so sorry. We're glad you're here. Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u302	There is no problem, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u303	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u304	We waited for the plan to be deposited for the medium term, namely the fourth memorial, suspected of the provisions that it would contain, which indicate that coexistence has delivered 'health and water', providing for provisions that literally remind of Ottoman occupation. And the measures offered as compensation, the countermeasures you say, will surely never be implemented. Because for you once it is not enough, for you who are pilgrimizing foreign loan sharks, the same project is being played again and today in a draft fish law. The majority of the government is tabling the amendments, which will legislate on the outstanding prerequisites, which creditors claim to have become the law of the State, before deciding to disburse the instalment to Greece to Eurogroup, which must be noted that part of it will be used to repay interest and loans, which our creditors and our supposed rescuers themselves have entered into. Firstly, while Article 25 of the draft law clearly states that the multi-advertising countermeasures are being implemented, provided and to the extent that, according to an assessment of the International Monetary Fund and the European Commission, there is no divergence from the medium-term budgetary targets, the amendment is now in place to strengthen the position of creditors, stating that only if they agree to the IMF, the European Commission, the European Central Bank and the ESS - then - can the countermeasures be activated, that is to say, ever. It is clear that the Greek Government no longer has the power to legislate alone but with the agreement of the lenders, the IMF and the European Union. Secondly, I will be placed on the amendments relating to the extension for one year of any increase in pensions and collective agreements with corrections of the relevant passages in the explanatory memorandum and the relevant article in the newly adopted memorandum No 4. This amendment is even more burdened with the framework for industrial relations and is mitigates the left-wing government's account of restoring collective agreements. The fiscal austerity for the next few years in which the economy is called to achieve very high primary surpluses will negatively affect households' fiscal capacity, the possibility of covering their loans, their liabilities and consumption. In view of the fact that many Greeks are currently unable to meet the basic needs of their own and family, we understand that the deadlock in which these policies lead the country is planned and aimed at impoverishing the Greek society. Thirdly, as regards the amendment to the electronic auction system, the standing position of the Golden Dawn is the protection of the residence of the Greek citizen. We fully understand the sanctity and importance of the residence for the Greeks and we are against any way to protect the property of the Greeks either by court or by electronic means or in any other way think and have stressed it many times in this Chamber. If you intend to provide the first residence of the Greeks, the houses of the Greeks at the various funds at prices much lower than the value of the loan that each borrower had entered into, why should the first bidder not be the Greek borrower? Why not propose to the borrower? Can you pay your loan so much and it'll be yours and the mortgage's gone? Why would he take the fund and not take it from the Greek? Fourthly, on the question of the financing of the parties and the transparency of their financial data, we see a single view of our own crystal. No government funding for any political parties. Full transparency in all economic movements of all political actors and movements of each party. Full financial control on a regular basis. Withdrawal of "the thief - PASOK". On September 27, 2013, we filed press reports on PASOK's finances. On 28 September PASOK and New Democracy in good cooperation began the construction and persecution of our political movement. Lucky? We do not have state funding, Minister, and yet we are not harmless lame, as are the various political parties in the so-called democratic arch. We can go down to the elections with the Members' contributions, with the contributions of the supporters and fans of the Golden Dawn, our party, and we have neither cartel nor agreements under the table you have made, which you now want and institutionalise, what amount you get, how you get it, etc. We do not want state funding, as we do not want any party to get state funding. It is also interesting to point out that, for the alleged restructuring of the Greek debt that the ESM will prepare and to speak with the language of truth, in no case will the following be done, it will not freeze the question of the payment of interest, as are falsely left by many to be understood and released and, secondly, it will never become a nominal haircut, the Greek debt. This is also demonstrated by statements made by representatives of the ESM, which were published in the press. On the contrary, this permanent support mechanism is considering a new extension of the loans granted to Greece for twenty years, creating a suffocating situation for our country and for the primary surpluses, but also for the prolongation, which will become fifty-two and thirty-two years. So we'll have half a century of comitology. For those of you who do not understand, by the methods followed by the government, there will be no exit from the memoranda, no exit from the crisis. The lenders will stay in Greece, the economic conquerors will stay here for more than half a century. I said this morning that the memos are a national disaster. You know that, too. You confess to it in the conversations between you two. It escapes you in various interviews. The Memorandums will also lead to greater destruction for our country, in a national disaster, literally proportional to '22, analogous to '74. It's mathematically certain. Instead of you, as our Chief, Nicholas Michaloliakos, pointed out many times here, to use the Greek debt, said it in Samaras, as a lever for Greek pressure towards Berlin and the other members of the Eurozone, you did exactly the opposite. You were subjected to the jewels of the loan sharks and Berlin. To prove, Mr President, our words reveal what and how to the Greek people, how it was voted a few days before Memorandum No 4 was voted in Washington. The American Congress called experts on the Greek debt issue. Here is the classified document of Congress. The Minutes that have not been released on the Internet confirm completely the Greek nationalists' position regarding the International Monetary Fund and the Troika programme, namely that their programme will never succeed, because it is not designed to save the Greek economy but is designed to save the interests of the major economies. Before I go any further, I would like to point out the important fact that in the opinion of these experts I mentioned before, the neologies used in Greece since our country entered the International Monetary Fund, such as the stability of the international monetary system, the restructuring of the Greek debt, the sustainability of the Greek debt, structural changes, international GDP, global economic activity, etc. are being used. So we understand that all these bills brought by you government - either left-wing or right-wing - come to the hands of the government in English and the terms translate themselves, with the sole aim of matching the demands and orders of foreigners. But we reveal that political pressure has influenced the decisions of the International Monetary Fund. The Fund changed its special access criteria until then to make an exception for Greece, which was and poses a threat to the collapse of the global economy, allowing the International Monetary Fund to start and continue until today. It is said in particular that the monetary union, the euro, has contributed to the Greek crisis, while in order to repay the private creditors of Greece, the private sector debt has been transferred to the public funds and these people who have done so, not only have the courage to teach us from the Step, such as Mr Venizelos of PASOK, but also to withdraw from the Chamber, also benefiting from this parliamentary procedure. Unlike the government propaganda that wants the lenders of the failed Memorandum governments to try to save us, in Washington it is noted that the aim of the International Monetary Fund is to speed up the stability of the international monetary system. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need two minutes, Mr. President. They're not saving us, dear. The economies save them and they would be your own care - the Memorandum Governments - to rekindle the Greek economy by implementing the plans - we would have no problem with the national proposal of the Golden Dawn, which says that the only road and the only one that can save Greece is Greek, the only way to save Greece is Greek production. In other words, the rescue program was not designed to get the country out of the crisis, but to transfer this crisis and to enclose to Greece this toxic problem of the American economy, which started with Lehman Brothers in 2008. I conclude, Mr President, and I say that the International Monetary Fund should be faced with the crisis as a whole and not as a crisis of an individual country. They have all taken care of the interests of their states, apart from the Greeks, from the Greek governments, these governments of the dangerously incapable and conscious and disastrous traitors who brought the International Monetary Fund to Greece. The final conclusion is that seven years after the first programme, the International Monetary Fund that entered Greece for the economic crisis admits that the crisis remains acute and that there is no clean long-term plan to stabilise the Greek economy. For you in Europe who are supposedly epic talks and are supposed to be fighting, the last revelation came in May, Minister, on how you accepted them all, and you said, "I should call the Prime Minister and tell him to wait a few days, because we cannot handle this crisis, bring it more smoothly to the Greek people." It's at the "CONTRIBUTION", I'll give it to you now. In other words, the sacrifices you have made to the Greek people and you confirm with your signatures are not part of a country's exit plan from the crisis but are a service to the great players of the world economy, who want to safeguard their interests. If this is not the last treason, then what is it?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u305	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, the President of the Group of the European People's Party, Mr Vassilis Leventis, has the floor. The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Mr Nikolaos Xydakis, is next, then Mr. Syrmalene and Mr. Besiropoulos. This is the turn, ladies and gentlemen. Here, Mr. Leventis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u306	I should like to welcome the Bureau, the ladies and gentlemen of the Council, the present and the present. Today's debate is under an electric climate because, in the form of amendments, the government goes on to go through some things to the satisfaction of creditors. And I wonder, after ten days ago, some very tough measures were taken, because not all of them took place in the previous vote. Was it something unknown? What do I think? I believe that when the government gave the bonus without asking the foreigners and forced Mr Tsakalotos to take a repentance letter, this vote is now taking place. Because Tsipras said: 'I will not implement the measures if I do not take something about the debt', for the punishment of Greece this vote takes place. Why don't you tell me now that they care about lenders if in 2022 there will be increases. I tell you that before 2022, there will have been four, five more reductions and don't tell me that the lenders don't know. In other words, they slowly did not want anyone in Berlin to make sure that there are no increases in 2022. As if the lenders don't know that by 2022, the country will have become an intrusion of fire! I therefore think the House is punished, the country is punished for this debate by Mr Tsipras. That's what should lead us, public men before we open our mouths, watch out. Because what Mr Tsakalots has signed the declaration of repentance for the bonus is not to the credit of the country, because it is not Tsakalots. Chaakatos like a Chaakatos can do whatever he wants. He's the Minister representing Greece. Greece was humiliated on its face, not Chakalotos. Now, then, Tsipras is not humiliated. It's a mistake to think that Tsipras is humiliating. The country is humiliated, compelled to vote purely ridiculous things and to vote in the form of amendments. I said last time that the question of the financing of the parties has become a serious mistake. The funds were cut off by legal persons, i.e. companies. Why? When a funding is legal and you post it online, you record it in the party's books and the supervisory authorities see it, why don't we like it? America, which only has state funding, is a country which is involved? We are a country that reigns under the funding table. In the way that the contributions of legal persons to the parties are cut, only the state remains, while it could slowly begin to give companies clearly EUR 500, EUR 1,000 - let us reduce the amount of EUR 20,000 per year, let us do it at the highest - so that we can slowly get rid of the state and stop the system being state-owned. This was a great mistake by Mr Tsipras if he inspired it. A party that takes 500 euros from here, a thousand euros from there evidently, firstly, will not have to take them out of the table and secondly, the state will also get away from bleeding. You saw what is happening with the New Democracy that owes 210 million euros, the PASOK that owes some 200 million more. All parties got loans. Would it hurt us to go to a privately funded system, obviously? Now what do we do? We only got the state to see them, and they'll all get them under the table. Do you doubt it? Or have we suddenly become saints in this Chamber? It was a great mistake, therefore, to cut funding from companies clearly, legally, because it leads to illegal and obsolete. I'm talking about a government of technocrats. And I'll say it until it's done and you'll be sure it will. Maybe you don't understand what I mean. You think I'm disrespecting politics. I don't deceive her. Politics has been deceived on its own, with what it has done over the past fifty years. With customer relations, the appointments, the scandals of all kinds denounced politics. Technocrats had all the governments. Horseman, for example, is a remarkable man, but the New Democracy did not leave him. I'm sure he would make five suggestions, too. He's an economist, I believe. The New Democracy did not adopt its proposals because it wanted to lose no votes: 'No, we will lose no votes'. The same would happen with Hardouvelis. He would have said five serious proposals too. I'm sure Chakaloto's got five serious things on his head, too. However, if he goes to do so, he can frustrate the ideas of the Left: 'Don't do it, Mr Chakaloto.' They are being misused by the technocrats, because each party has the vote in mind. He's ripping them out. This has led me to propose a government of technocrats, which is not even forbidden. Make a government for two, three years. I don't propose for twenty-two years. To build a government that the parties will trust in the House. The parties that will support this government will set up an action plan. These will agree on the policy to be followed, which can be no more than the implementation of reforms and the country's euro stay. There can be no other policy in this place. Anything else will be shameful and disastrous. So this government of technocrats will have that purpose. On the eve of the country to the euro and the implementation of reforms. Would it hurt the country to become such a government for two, three years, to give an image of conscientiousness outwards? I didn't underestimate any of the politicians. But haven't politicians bankrupt the country? Politicians are connected to this place with ruffles, with customer relations. I am constantly visited by various institutions in the House and they say: "Help, let these things simulate. There's a few of them. It is three thousand.’ Something like that. What can I say to them, yes? I'm sure from all the other parties, you'll say yes. I doubt you have the courage when they visit you and ask for party ruffles of this kind, such as simulations of contractors, etc., to say no. Indeed, SYRIZA has fallen into the treasury, taking the initiative to permanentize all contractors, as if this country had the opportunity to do so! So the government of technocrats, I ask, because it has failed the political system and why Mr Tsipras is now injured, is not a normal Prime Minister. He raises the debt issue up, and now he tries to convince us that we can suffice the dose. What else does he have to say? Why did this matter get so high? I in this Chamber four times said: ‘Why do you relate the question of rating to debt, since I have information that Germany insists on discussing debt in August 2018? Why, Mr Tsipras, do you raise the issue of debt?' No one answered and the country was humiliated. It was a national defeat that you didn't need. We could discuss so many other issues with strangers. As of 2012, they had said about August 2018. Why did Mr. Tsipras insist earlier? To humiliate the country? I mean, for Mr. Mitsotakis, some things. Mr. Mitsotakis came out with some sectoral... Why are you laughing, Mr. Brutsi?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u307	I'm not laughing for you, Mr. Leventis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u308	Oh, do you have your own issues and you're laughing? Fortunately! Among other things, I've isolated a fabulous phrase. He said the lenders are just looking to get their money back. So we have the SYRIZA that says Symble is blackmailing him, like Merkel, etc. We have the New Democracy, which says they're an entrepreneur, and they're just looking at their money, that they don't care about either Greece or anything. And he wants to be Prime Minister, Mr. Mitsotakis? Does this Prime Minister need Greece, which feels that our lenders and partners are the ones looking to save only their money and anything else? Is that what we believe in this room, that foreigners only look at their money? Then why are we coming to a contract with them? I, as Vassilis Leventis, would never have come to a contract with people I would have thought of as benefactors and who are only looking at securing their money and not the country! [[Applause from the centre of the Union of Centres]] How does Mr Mitsotakis want to become Prime Minister? Greece needs a European Prime Minister who convinces Europe, a man who loves Europeans. You saw what happened to the Englishmen. The English have gone to history in Europe for a moment. They voted for a May to get them out of Europe. So she, unrespectful of anything, did an election at any time she liked, considering that she would win them. The English people's answer was to degrade it. Now, if she stands there, she is to the extent of her anesthesia, to the extent that she respects the popular mandate to keep the lady alive. It is important, however, that the English people have repented. There were journalists there who did what antimony do here: in England careers on antimony and Euroscepticism. Do not think that only Greece has the phenomenon of antimony. They have it there, and so they have led to the vote on Euroscepticism. They saw what that means. They saw what money they're being asked for. They saw how difficult the procedures are, because they don't want to give the 100 billion to them. Now the English people are backing up. Do you want me to tell you the ending? They'll stay. They're not leaving Europe. They calmly found things to be a big mistake, for they were carried away by journalists in populists. That Farage was even wiped out of the map. Mr. Mitsotakis also held some meetings with retired people in Kallithea and with delivers. So he said: “What good people! They work long hours and often they don't pay them. They are working beyond hours." Good work in New Democracy that was perceived in 2017 as oppressing workers in this country! Does Mr. Mitsotakis know what a dealer would say not to be paid? Does he, then, have such financial difficulties that he sees the deliper, so that he can say it as an example? Now he's been in touch with the delinquents and now he's in touch with the retireds who don't have to give their grandchildren! Not all of this is bad, but when did we see it in this Chamber? And PASOK was there for so long against the government. Right. I have no objections. It was cold, etc. Let the government go. These, when in power, did not all the bills go through urgent? Have you been through one with normal procedures? I have told you before and I will tell you in this Chamber that he visited me as a general who took a pension of EUR 2,800 and told me that Samaras and Venizelos took her to EUR 1,300 and Tsipras to EUR 1,050. What does that general have to vote for? This general is also right-wing, too. Imagine being left! Ladies and gentlemen, I'll tell you something. The New Democracy has taken the slogan 'The Agreement of Truth'. The Gennimata, which wants to climb and its percentages, while it is ready to triple the party, to the other side Diamantopoulou walks, to the other side Venizelos walks, to the other side, came out "Agreement of Greece". You "Agreement of Truth", the Genemas "Agreement of Greece". I will tell you the motto of the Centro Association to hear it in this Chamber, whether you are all taking it into consideration or at least listening to the Greek people. The motto of the right, if you want to leave the memorandum, is: "We reforms, lenders." No money, because the dose, when we take it, with the debts we have left right away. It evaporates like throwing a glass of water into steel and nothing else. It's all evaporating. Investors to show that they are putting back on Greece and we reforms to prevent them from being mocked, because all the European gap and all the governments, when we speak with factors, say that all the Prime Ministers have made fun of the fact that they will make investments. So what the country needs is credibility, it needs reforms. There has been no reform. These prerequisites you're going through now are ridiculous. Professions haven't been opened. Three hundred and thirty thousand pensions are triple. Three hundred and thirty thousand people take three main pensions each. One million two thousand people get two main pensions each. I have recommended abolishing the pensions of the rich. It is eighty thousand cases of people with interest, rent, dividends, receipts of over 3,000 euros a month. If the pension were to be suspended, that is to say, if the pension were to be suspended, we could, on a temporary basis, save a substantial sum not to cut off the pension of grandparents or the very poor. But you didn't. The government didn't show courage and he'll pay for it. The Prime Minister wants to stay further in power, it will be at the expense of this. When a Prime Minister promises things that are not done, this Prime Minister may remain in power, but will have a bad end. You should be aware that those of the Prime Ministers who have remained are ignored in the opposite society and who have acted on anti-grassroots measures. They had a bad end to the last. If Mr. Tsipras nostalgiced that kind of ending, it would be very bad. It is a mistake that the government is self-sufficient, bringing to Parliament a vote by means of amendments things to the satisfaction of Berlin. It's a mistake because the country is humiliating. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u309	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty-two students and students and four educational attendants from the 1st Elementary School of Serres. Welcome to the Greek Parliament. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Nikolaos Xydakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u310	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we appealed to SYRIZA's pragmatism at the beginning of today's reluctant meeting. The answer a little - not all of the speakers - is a mixture of arson and moralism lessons. We have previously heard the parliamentary spokesman for the Democratic Incorporation Mr Loverdos with an arsonistic reason to fuel his own staff, his own struggle for a bitter self-justice. His word never contains a single self-criticism. There's never been a ruling Mr. Loverdos! He's not hitting himself with anything! He's not bored with any past! Yet, for many years, he took part in governments and at some peak moments in the altar of the 2nd constituency of Athens sacrificed innocent creatures, the positive ones. We should remember that, and those who are here and those who listen to us.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u311	Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u312	I listened carefully to the Head of the Democratic Incorporation of Mrs Gennimata on the one hand to invoke her contribution to the Socialist European camp in order to support the position of Greece and find a fair treatment from the lenders and on the other hand, without even listening to what the Portuguese Socialists say when cooperating in good cooperation with Marcello De Sousa, the right-wing conservative president, without listening to what the French say or what the Italians say, when he comes to Greece, changing his hat, changing its shape. We hear a single shallow reason for denounce the SYRIZA Government - ANEL as a source of all evils in all post-war Greece. I would therefore like to advise her to look first at the renamed PASOK to see and measure how many convicts, how many convicts and how many inquiries there are in this mortal speech by Mrs Gennimata. I would advise her, however, to look forward, to all of us looking ahead to see what we can do for the country and for the mortarism that we hear today from all sides. We need to look back and then go ahead, leave the SIEMENS takeover industry behind, let the Lagard lists investigate them by the competent authorities, the Borgians lists, the Luxembourg lists. They're investigating them and we've got the morals and the material value to get out of the way.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u313	Ladies and gentlemen, be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u314	Mr President, the order is up to you and I trust your skills and your will. Today we are closing a chapter of painful decisions and compromises that might have been less painful, if there could be - and I think there could be - the least common denominator of a national front, and if the major opposition and members of the minus had decided not to join the government, but with the country, against an attempt to disguise or tackle in the most prudence that the German elite's unambiguous attempt to categorise in Europe at zero costs for itself, at zero borrowing costs, at a maximal political gain on the back of the weakest states. Still, we're moving on. We close our assessment with all the effort and the pain we are making, and our aim is to get out of the markets so that we can somehow serve the financial needs of the country and get rid of the Memorandum Force. We could follow the words of Portuguese Prime Minister Costa a few days ago in the German 'HANDELSBLATT': 'We have implemented less austerity, we have declined Berlin's political strategy and we are starting to have some fruit, a relief for our people'. What this assessment and conclusion of agreements - which, let us not be fooled, have been imposed on all governments since May 2010 - is the lifting of the climate of uncertainty, a spirit of confidence among Greek citizens and those who want to invest, so as to see unemployment drastically reduced, as it already seems to be falling, back in a low decade, to increase liquidity, to enable the country to show its many possibilities. In a strategic context we support, we understand with all our powers the choices of the negotiating team and the leadership of the government. We understand that there are very few other options. We have the experience of all the years of the Memorandum of Integration, we have the experience of the first semester of 2015. We hope and are confident that with all our forces beyond the Memorandumic Political Framework, how we will be able in the coming years, with institutional changes, with practical interventions, to raise the morality of the Greek people and to improve the lives of the citizens in line with the concepts of the Left and the democrats who are the great social majority right now in the country. And we'll do it. However, within the time that comes, we must be aware that there is no room at national level for these reasons of retribution and blind self-justice, for the resentment that many of us are firing out in this Chamber and the requirement that everyone should be humiliated, that all should be slided to four and that they should be kneeled and defeated. There is no margin for the country for the vigilance of every aspiring or bitterness of any rejected leader to further plunge the country into division and enslavement. The political memorandum of the universal subjugation of the political forces is the plan of the extreme reaction elite wherever they exist in Europe. Is this part of the Europa project...? the nuclear Europe of the "Doctor" which speaks as it speaks of Greece. The present division, the coup d'etatism, the scattered hatred and the reunification that has no objective, does not even lead to a conflict in politics, a conflict in the evacuation and rebuilding of political games at another level. They lead to structural defeat of all people and social implosion. Without compositions and commitments, without convenings and rebirths of politics from all the honest democrat politicians in this Chamber, I am very afraid that we will hand over to our children a looted colony on the basis of the lasting low-voltage civilization and the backdrop of implosion. We have room for not sliding into this unfavorable historical possibility. Thank you very much for your attention. Thank you, too, for her attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u315	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Nikos Syrmalenes has the floor for seven minutes, followed by Mr. Vésiropoulos and the President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group Mr. Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u316	Mr President, thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think that today the bill was really to talk about fisheries, as the Minister responsible said. Unfortunately, however, we are not talking about fishing, because other concerns and other issues have arisen, other programmes. I will just say three words because I spoke to the committee. But I'd like to remind you of some things in titles. I think it is very positive that the Minister, Mr Apostolos and the committee, but also today, made reference to some of the announcements relating to fisheries, which so far I think has been degraded over time in our country, and can play a very substantial role. First of all, maritime protected areas. Secondly, the defence of coastal fishermen, which is the vast majority of fishermen. Thirdly, the management plans for other fisheries. I think that should be the Ministry's prerogatives and priorities in order to move forward. I now come to the issues on the agenda itself. First, I'm going to make a statement. The attitude of the Opposition as a whole and the Officer and the rest of the parties, as far as the procedure is concerned, is absolutely hypocritical. And it is absolutely hypocritical, because I think that even if there was a bill on Monday under the urgency procedure, it is certain that we would listen again to any arguments put forward in this Chamber, such as 'why should we not discuss them, because the government has failed, because the government legislates in procedures that go beyond the logic of the parliamentary procedure'. So it is a pretext that we are talking this way today. And, of course, this is not the right procedure. None of us, any Member of Parliament and any Member of Parliament is pleased that we have been legislating in this way for the last seven, eight years. But we know very well that we are living in genuinely exceptional circumstances, in which exceptional circumstances have brought us the logic of the country's bankruptcy, for which the current government is not responsible. This government has been ruling almost two and a half years. The New Democracy and the PASOK, which have been ruling this country for decades. All the rest have no objections and no persuasiveness to the Greek people. I think that Minister Tsakalotos clearly explained exactly what we are talking about today. He said that the prerequisites, which we are discussing, are a strategic issue to those who want to divert the country's path towards clearing on Thursday at the Eurogroup. In other words, instead of discussing debt, we are discussing the prerequisites, which have not been done. That is why we are discussing these prerequisites, which were not required until 22 May. They were demanded immediately afterwards, which shows that some of the lenders want cynically to raise issues in the country's course. Since 2015, ladies and gentlemen, it has flown too much water into the groove. Our country's gain is the concrete results that the economy has brought into all areas. I would remind you: a surplus of 4.2% compared with 0.5% in 2016, a growth of 0.4% in the first quarter of 2017, two hundred and twenty thousand new jobs in the first five months of 2017, better performance since 2001, gradually leading unemployment from 27% to 22.5%, an increase in industrial production, a spectacular increase in exports, etc. Therefore, these results brought the country out of defending an attack, while the Greek Government's initiatives created these two years of wider support alliances in favour of the country's interests. I am referring to the South Summits, on the basis of which we now have active support for Greek positions. You can see in the last Eurogroup the attitude of France and Italy and other countries that for the first time supported us, Austria, Slovakia, etc. I am referring to the broader alliance between the Eurogroups of the Left, the Greens and the Social Democrats, with the intervention of the nine MEPs on the upcoming Eurogroup on 15 June. I am also referring to the publications of the entire international press, contrary to the reports inside the country. Indeed, it is impressive that the domestic socialists - social democrats - in or out of the market - who rebelled before and left, follow the line of overthrowing the government and not the line that their counterparts follow in Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, we are indeed at a key point. All the elements of the markets, the historical low 10-year bond, the real elements of the Greek economy show that we are in front of a signal, a 'click', for Greece to enter the path of growth. As you know, both the ongoing contacts and the communication of the Prime Minister and the government in America, China, Russia and other third countries, within a multi-dimensional foreign policy have opened roads and space for successful results in the area of economic cooperation and investment. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will be done in a moment. This key point is not only about Greece. It concerns the whole course and the existence of the European Union itself. The situation after Brexit, the referendums which have taken place successively in all the countries and which were negative to the demands of the Brussels and Berlin technocrats, the result yesterday in the great Britain which is hopeful of the success of the workers and Corbin - not of Blair, remember that - shows that the responsibilities of those who play in the course of the European Union are enormous. Because everyone understands that this Europe, Europe of austerity and neoliberalism does not work for the benefit of united Europe and much more for the benefit of its people. It works exclusively in favour of a single country and its own establishment, namely the German establishment.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u317	Finish, Mr. Comrade, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u318	I shall conclude, Mr President. Opposition in our country and in particular New Democracy does not have a plan, does not have a strategy. Its strategy is only the re-establishment of power and the re-establishment of that political and economic establishment of the interlocutory that erased growth rates by 2009 and led us to bankruptcy. Ladies and gentlemen, it is the only strategy that we are following a step forward in suffocating conditions, an exit strategy from the memoranda and the comitology. I told you and I told you again: don't bet on destructive. It's not good for you because you're always disobeying. We may have temporary difficulties, because some of the lenders are cynical. And I would like to say that unfortunately some of you have complete communication with these cynical lenders and their positions. The government will win. The people will win and judge us in September 2019. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u319	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Apostolos Vésiropoulos has the floor for seven minutes. Immediately after the speech, the President of the New Democracy Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis will be given.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u320	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, on 8 February 2015 in the debate on his government's programming statements, Mr Tsipras said, with the theatricality that the SYRIZA - ANEL Government will be every word from this country's Constitution. The reality has proved, ladies and gentlemen of the government majority, that you are every word of the two memorials you have brought within two years. You are every word of the EUR 14.5 billion measures you have brought and voted on, aiming first at the middle class and then at the low income levels and the weak. You are every word of the decision by which the banks closed down and were imposed for the first time in the modern history of the country capital control. You are every word of the absolute humiliation of Parliament that is currently taking place with amendments tabled at night to be voted on in summary procedures and changing the lives of thousands of people and undermining the country's recovery course. Mickeys Theodorakis wrote in his verse in 1968 "Your humiliation will be perfect". It obviously did not take into account the fact that forty-nine years later a final left-wing government would not only devour itself, but Parliament too. Ladies and gentlemen, the question through these procedures is no longer what kind of negotiation the government is doing. We are all aware of that. The only thing that is negotiating is that she stays in power. The question arises and will become dominant in the next few days is whether Mr Tsipras' government has democratic legitimacy to lead the country to a memorandum that can extend until 2060. And the answer is no. The only essential way out is by appealing to the people's verdict. As far as the amendments are concerned, and in particular Amendment No 1058/64, amending Article 15 of Law 4472/2017 on tax exemption, I have to say: what does the content of the amendment mean, which the government is trying to reduce? Quite simply, ladies and gentlemen, with the full and broad interpretation of the content of the amendment, the reduction in duty at EUR 5,681 will not apply in 2020, but earlier if it is decided that the high primary surpluses that you agreed and signed are not achieved. The road opens in the most official and unequivocal way for the reduction of duty in 2019. And, of course, the Government acknowledges that any intervention on the so-called countermeasures should have the consent of the lenders. Obviously, the primary surpluses of over 3.5%, since there is no strong and sustainable growth, will come from overtaxation. That's our difference. We do not just believe in the need for realistic surpluses, but also in the primary surpluses that are a product of wealth production and not a product of wild overtaxation. Basically, with the acceptance of these primary surpluses, apart from the fact that you are prolonging the absurdity of overtaxation to approach them, you are canceling every discussion of a substantial debt relief. The acceptance of these high primary surpluses leads to a pension freeze after 2022. The payroll account and cuts to the insurance bill with the second memorandum that you have brought, goes further up to 3,050,000 euros. With your amendment, we are not talking about pension freeze in the period 2019-2021, but about extending this time limit to 2022. As far as the amendment to the free collective bargaining agreement is concerned, we have the full humiliation of the government, since you are forced to take back what you have voted on in the bill. From there on, the government considers that with the amendment on political money and the lending of parties it can change the agenda and disorientate. I've told you many times. By 2015 you managed to make fun of many. Today you cannot mock and mislead a single citizen in this country. The New Democracy in principle is in favour of interventions aimed at transparency and control of political money. The New Democracy as a political organisation has streamlined its finances and gradually reduces its liabilities from bank lending. Ladies and gentlemen, some people have now remembered the consensus, with the exception that they are not seeking consensus, but seeking consent. There will be a consensus, ladies and gentlemen. Before, however, the citizens must speak, the real popular will in this House must be reflected, because today's composition of the House is in complete discrepancy with the electorate. The consensus will force it into a new, firm and serious government, the New Democracy government: It will address the whole of society with the language of truth, without divisive logic and aiming to unite the Greeks, what you do and cannot do with poisoning society, preachers of hatred and division. Do you remember "we or they"? The "German girls" and the "dollars" you have addressed to your political opponents, all that you remember? Really, if our government had given the superstition you gave, giving for ninety years the entire public property, what more would you say? Consent to what? The absolute dead end that you led the country? Conspiracy to caging the Greeks in a constant trap of overtaxation? The catastrophic choices between universities and self-government? In debt regulation? Nor do you know exactly what you are claiming for debt, when it is known that from 2012 there has been a commitment to debt in the direction of rationalised debt yields that do not exceed a percentage of GDP. It remained and remains to be specified and quantified, and it is assumed that this agreement binds the lenders. Let me remind you that the New Democracy in July 2015 set back to stand the country, because otherwise you would leave night and the country would have changed to ruins. Ladies and gentlemen, the biggest threat facing the country, now exist, is our integration into a lasting memorandum. That's where you drive things. If you think that you have democratic legitimacy to do so, you will face the consequences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u321	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, the President of the New Democracy, Mr Mitsotakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u322	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by expressing my deep regret at the unjust loss of the young student in Menidi by a stray bullet. Because of the human dimension that has this tragic event, I do not want to say more today. I think we can all draw our conclusions. Now, with regard to the agenda, I would like to reiterate once again that we have noted in this Chamber in time that the Greek Parliament is systematically despising the Greek Parliament. I have recently had the opportunity to visit the President of Parliament, Mr Voutsi, and to inform him of this. We talked to you when we had to. However, there seems to be nothing to stop a government that does not have the basic political honesty, which does not have the basic political equilibrium, which shows little respect for the democratic institutions and Parliament's institutions. Ministers who, in this Chamber, in the plenary session of this House, said but are not ashamed today to sign amendments that have been placed on the 'pre-time' seal and which are usually tabled in bills completely irrelevant, which recast pre-requisites for the second assessment, which, Minister, was supposed to have been closed. But it seems that every week it is closing. I wonder whether it is accurate what my colleague, Mr Armalene, said in speaking before, that you were asked for additional prerequisites, following the vote on the fourth Memorandum. I would like you to answer that. As was supposed to have shut down the debt issue, of course, but also the issue of the country's accession to the quantitative relaxation. Of course you've done it before. Amendments to unrelated bills at the last minute, even if the Constitution does not allow it, as you know, Mr President of Parliament. The Constitution also requires, and even for voidity, that pension provisions be found in a special bill and each bill be accompanied by special opinions and reports. But to introduce fiscal amendments to ratification of an International Fisheries Treaty, for fish, for fish, you have never done so before! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Apart from the abuse of the institutions, which is an extremely serious issue, there is also the element of ridiculousness, or rather there would be the element of ridiculousness if you were not so brutally insulting the institutional order and the intelligence of the citizens. Of course, all of this is well known to you. Who are you trying to hide from? Societies? But she sees you, Minister, no matter how much here in the previous debate you told us that society sees 'Survivor' and not the House. I've already referred to the element of ridiculous. I will not come back or comment on how you handle your parliamentary group. But you told your Members that they would vote for the measures in order to get the debt agreement. And now you are bringing them back here for amendments with prerequisites that come after the assessment that was supposed to be closed and while, at least so far, you have not reached any agreement on the debt. As I have already said, the evaluation has not been closed, it is closing. The prerequisites come before and come back after, are constantly written and corrected. That's the truth. You take what they give you and do what they ask you to do in a negotiation in which you do not participate, but simply attend, in a negotiation where decisions are made on criteria that unfortunately do not concern our country, with criteria relating to and serving political circumstances in other countries, as well as the priorities of the international organisations involved in the Greek issue. Ladies and gentlemen, the failure of the government is described in the Prime Minister's own words. Once again, I would remind the National Representation of what Mr Tsipras told us, who I see is missing from today's debate. Mr. Tsipras, then, had set three goals. I would point out that, firstly, the closure of the assessment, secondly, of the country's accession to the quantitative relaxation programme and, thirdly, of the debt regulation. The government has lost all of these three objectives, and together the country loses and is going to lose any positive prospects for the economy, because the tragic delay in completing the assessment is the one that has again plunged the economy into recession. I would remind you that the government itself, which, a few months ago, predicted a growth rate of 2.7% in 2017, has already revised it to 1.8%. And, as a general rule, the OECD optimistic in its forecasts for the performances of the Greek economy predicts, Minister, growth of 1.1% in 2017. This is the cost of delaying the completion of the evaluation. Of course, they do not need figures, because citizens are living the situation of the real economy, they are locked in fear and poverty. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS VARENTIS takes over]] I now come to the question of quantitative relaxation, the second major objective set by Mr Tsipras. It seems, unfortunately, that he goes away too. I would remind you that we should have entered the program of quantitative relaxation since the first half of 2015. And that would have happened if your government hadn't intervened. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We're struggling to get in now and I wish we could make it. But what we considered in this Chamber, Minister, as a given few weeks ago and absolutely necessary condition for the country to be able to borrow from markets at reasonable rates, today is a request. Indeed, it seems extremely precarious, especially if there is no agreement on debt that will enable the European Central Bank to have a sustainability report to integrate Greek bonds into the quantitative relaxation programme. Of course, since I spoke about debt, all the opportunism of the government is revealed. The government constantly forgets to tell us that it agreed in May 2016 that the final debt resolution decisions will be taken after the end of the programme and that if necessary. That is what you signed, Mr Chakalote, in the Eurogroup decision. After you have wasted time and finally lost full control of the negotiation, you have raised the debt issue yourself. Why? As an alibi to your Members to come to vote on the measures. They did, they voted for the measures, they voted for a fourth memorandum, and today we are again here for prerequisites that come as amendments. No matter how much austerity you take, no matter what prerequisites you have to bring back with amendments, the country does not stop paying your two and a half years to power, because you have power, often even abuse power, but you do not actually govern. What did Mr. Skourletis say recently? Can I remind you? "We live under constant political defeat." Like the problem of the country is your political defeat! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I would therefore say to Mr Tsipras if he were here, but I say to you, Minister, that after you have been defeated by the facts, which you have created with your lies and your mistakes, hand over power to the people! He's a sovereign! Make elections and enable the people to decide! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Anyway, there's time now. Until the elections in Germany there will be no decision either on debt or, unfortunately, on quantitative relaxation.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u323	...(not heard).
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u324	Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister ask you, not me. Mr. Chakatto ask, not me. You're asking me? Aren't you ashamed to ask me? Have you laughed at the Greek people and had the courage to ask me? Mr. Chakatto ask what Mr. Shoeble says in his ear.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u325	One memorial after the other you bring. We can't make it anymore!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u326	I know very well what I told Mr. Shoeble. Over the past few days, the feeling that Greece has again been at a critical crossroads. The Government of Mr Tsipras and himself, apparently, are exhausted. The worst thing, however, is that society has also been exhausted and the reserves of societal endurance have also been exhausted. An entire winter was lost in a negotiation that puts the country in a worse position than it was a year ago, without even bringing a solution to the debt and the economy in constant instability. So give a solution to stop the dissolution. Election is an election, because only through the elections can a government emerge with momentum and credibility, really determined to make the big changes that the country needs. Since I saw you so excited about Mr Corbin's very good performance in Britain, you have nothing special to be afraid of since Europe is changing, to remember what you were saying some time before the January 2015 elections. The country needs, ladies and gentlemen, a new government that can claim from its partners to implement the debt commitments they have made since November 2012, but a new government that will not only be talking about debt, but at the same time put forward the development machines, will bring investment, create jobs, engage in the denominator of the 'GDP' fraction, not only with the numerator. And, of course, a government that will put Greece back in the right place on the geopolitical chess board, as it is clear that we are going through a period of major change, very upsetting in our region. We must not waste any more time. I would once again call on Mr Tsipras to stand up to the circumstances, to prioritise his responsibilities, which are commensurate with his office and, of course, to remind us that history is judged in retrospect, but by society we are judged on a daily basis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u327	Mr. Dousina from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u328	Mr President, it is a great honour to speak after the Chief of Officership, and I want to start with a riddle, an enigma. What is the political or political party that, while its country is in a huge crisis, is in huge and difficult negotiations with a sacred alliance of great powers against it, this political party or political party is asking for elections?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u329	Remember yourself.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u330	Come on, you're talking. You'll talk already!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u331	We don't forget.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u332	We're in 2017, we're not in 2014. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Wait till you hear the enigma. It has some positive demographic results. It precedes 10%, 12%, 20%, 24%. Of course, this gives this politician and the fact that he has the power to ask for strong mandate, strong authority and to return to where he belongs, to power and the state. Do you know who this politician is? Mrs. Theresa May. It was Mrs Teresa Mae who, because she went forward with 25%, had an election and we have the result that is the greatest disaster for the Conservative Party in England and for Mrs Mae herself, who will stay in her election campaign as a global example for avoidance. It is the enigma of this paradox too. Who was it against her? Mr. President of the Officership has named him. It was Mr. Jeremy Corbin, a politician who comes out through the heart of the radical and democratic Left, a politician who put two basics...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u333	..................................................................................................................................................................... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u334	Mr. Kelles, why this childhood atmosphere now? Please, be quiet. Anyone who doesn't want to go out. Mr. Dousina, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u335	Mr President, as a university I am used to having arguments and counter-problems with a particular style and spirit. If some colleagues want to call, what can we do? It's probably their style and morality. Mr Corbin put two main directions in his election campaign: against austerity, opposition to neoliberalism - a class mark - and on the other hand, defending half the British people, 48%, who voted to remain in Europe, and at the moment had been demonised by systemic means and we currently have a great national leader, who I think has put the pretext to become a Prime Minister on this issue soon. I'll tell you something else that matters to us Greeks. Mr Corbin said the day before yesterday that the first act he would do if he became Prime Minister would be to make a Prime Minister decision and then legislate, so that the three and a half million Europeans in Britain are immediately entitled to full rights, what they now have as European citizens, and then Brexit. And he said: 'I will do it unilaterally, regardless of whether Europeans make us such a concession for British citizens'. This is the moral advantage of the Left, unilaterally giving Greeks, Greek students, Greek workers, my friends - who have been there for forty years - the right to remain in their country. I want to talk about this moral advantage, dear friends, because for me, I came to Greece in September 2015 after forty years in Britain, a circle is closed today and it is the cycle of exactly the moral advantage of the Left. For the majority of us from here and I personally, who are not professional politicians, who did not enter the left because we expected to become MPs or ministers or to take office, we are here, following the mandate of the Greek people and if you win tomorrow in the next elections, because this is democracy, we will go back to our schools, courts, fields and universities...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u336	How many of you are working?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u337	...because we're just such people coming out of the people, Mr. Javarra. You're well-read, and it doesn't make you say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u338	How many of you are working?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u339	Please, Mr. Javarra!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u340	We're all working because we're not professional politicians, because we're not born with the Silver Spoon, which the English say, with the silver spoon in our mouths, and we don't think we have any right to be in the state. We're there because the people have put us in. As long as it keeps us, that's where we'll be, and then we'll leave, go to our university or at our school. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Are we satisfied at the end of this cycle, in which we decided that we should retreat, compromise? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like a slight extension, following the extremely interesting approach I have from the Vice-Presidents, who prefer the hips to the arguments.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u341	As is the case in the British Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u342	Are we satisfied with what the government has achieved so far? No, we're not satisfied. On the other hand, for the first time yesterday some of you and colleagues in the House held a joint meeting of three committees, and we brought great professors of European law, the European economy, from Germany, from England, from Scotland and from Greece to discuss where Europe lies. What came out of this conversation? On the one hand, we have had a number of colleagues who seem to be completely ignorant of European issues. And what we were told was that you either have a problem with your partner, either with your work or with your football club, the answer is'more Europe'. They have not realised that Europe is currently going through a huge existential crisis and that, if we do not take steps to change Europe, it can be dismantled. And Brexit is one of those conditions that leads it there. What comes out of the debate on university, academic, but even in foreign newspapers - which seems to be not read, and all you know is to say 'above Europe' and nothing else - is that the Greek negotiations, as was the case and at the moment, showed three things. Firstly, they showed the growing authoritarianism, the authoritarian character of the European Union and, above all, Germany, which, as Hubermas said, lost 50 years of symbolic capital in one day in July 2015, which Germany had won. They also showed that the European Union has forgotten its history, the fact that the greatest success is that it has pacified Europe and we currently have nationalisms to return because of its policies. We also have the third, which is the divorce between markets and social justice, the social state, which is in the areas of the European Union. We need to change these things, we need to discuss them, we need to find ways to rethink architecture and not just Europe's policies, that is, the relationship between the institutions and democratise the institutions, rethink the relationship between Brussels and the nations - states, but above all the regions, transfer resources and power from Brussels here, in the neighbourhoods of Greece, Cyprus, etc. They are enough, dear friends and dear colleagues, historical moments, in the history of a place where political leadership is obliged to forget its party interest and fight with others for a national purpose. So do not vote for the measures that we will pass by closing the cycle that we started in 2015. Don't vote for them. Leave, if you want, as the Democratic Alliance did. On the debt issue, however, you need to forget your party and party tendencies and interests at this time. We must do what you say repeatedly, the National Greece, so that we can earn the debt. The debt was 120% in 2009 and in 2015, when we took it, it reached 180%, even though GDP had disappeared. You did the big debt, and now you have to help us, so that we can free the future of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u343	Thank you, Mr. Dousina. As we have exceeded the predetermined time frame, I would ask for the consent of this House to determine the speaking time of the speakers at five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u344	Mr President, the last ten minutes spoke.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u345	It'll be for five minutes on the relative tolerance. Mr. Barbarousis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u346	First of all, I would like to express my warmest condolences to the family of the eleven-year-old. As Golden Dawn we sympathize with the drama that his family experiences. We've said a number of times about the Roma invasion. I don't think we need to say anything else right now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u347	Those who want to get out, get out, but be quiet. Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u348	Five years ago and a few days ago, one morning in the AD1 studio, the competitor Elias Cassidy cooled with a glass of water the former MP of SYRIZA and now the district manager of Attica Rena Douros, because he told him that if we go out, we will bring the country back fifty years. Can you tell me how many years you've brought the country back? You realize you've been bringing a memorandum for 50 years? And if you've understood, are you interested in that? Run again and beg behind Merkel's dresses as ministeres to give you some crumbs for a while. Is that a Greek Prime Minister? Are you Greek politicians? Do you have the right to represent the proud Greek people? Is that the Greek people, a beggar? Calling Greek is a title of honor and you have humiliated the Greek concept worldwide. From where the Greeks walked high-headed and they were proud to be called Greek, now you have made them ashamed of what they are. It comes out yesterday and someone from PASOK shouting that "to blame us by fascists, something good we will have done in this place". Let me tell you what good PASOK did to this place when it was government. He was taking hate from the German state through the 'SIEMENS' and not just the PASOK, of course. In order for the Greek people to understand what we are saying, the official German state has made a mistake to the official Greek state, to buy German armaments ten times above their value, and now that the state has gone bankrupt, the official German state is asking the Greek people to pay the broken bills. Of course, the state has not only been bankrupt by the excesses in armaments. He was also charged with overheating in health, the Olympic Games and so many scandals that took place, since here in Greece for what was bought by the Greek State and for what was done, he was first supplied to the Minister and then the agreement was made. That is why we are saying that this debt is not recognised, it is burdensome and the Greek people must not pay for it. To pay all of you who have taken the hates, who have been well-built and filled the place with offshore, like some of your other comrades, who are no longer here now, known names and unexplainable, like Laliotis, like Simitis, etc.. We don't have to report everything. The only way to stop this catapult is to come out of a law that will criminalise election lies, because it is not possible - so as not to go to the oldest, to stay in the years of the memorials - to get Giorgakis out of the election and tell us "they are money", to vote for the gullible Greek people and from the "they are" to the size of the IMF. Samaras can't then go out with Zappeion 1 and 2 and instead of doing what he was saying in the election, post-elections not doing anything and bringing memories from the Zappeia, we went to the famous programme of Thessaloniki and the greatest political liar, which the country had known here. You're the ones who finished it. How did Alex do that? 'Go back, Mrs Merkel', 'I'll tear the memorials out with a law and an article, the same night' and so forth. Let us not forget, of course, your partner, Kammenos, who told us that 'we will not go to negotiate on four'. Now tell us, Pano Cammene, what your favorite attitude is. Tell us how you negotiate. Why don't you go away, Pano Cammene, from the government, after breaking the so-called red lines you've been putting? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm about to finish. Let me tell you why you're not leaving. Why, where will Panos find a military helicopter again to have it as private and to sever free rides? You bring in here to vote for things like this that never happened before. You blamed the previous ones for the way they were legislating and you were right to blame them. What exactly do you do now? You are bringing us here, so that we can vote on various amendments, so that the bill is not exaggerated as an emergency. That's never happened in time. We are called upon to vote in this regard - in the form of amendments, the remaining prerequisites for the closure of the evaluation. Next time, to start again, bring the amendments to the reports so that the Bureau can communicate them directly. Anyway, whatever you want to do. Democracy, and that's an order. In fact, we are talking about a ratification of an agreement, which consists of amendments such as duty-free and how it is calculated. In fact, there is a speeding up of the reduction in duty, not from 2020 but from 2019, of the collective agreements with corrections to the relevant passages in the explanatory statement and, where appropriate, of the newly adopted memorandum, the pension, which relates to the pension freeze and to the 2022; after the start of the adjustment of the main pensions is switched to 1-1223, the parties' finances and electronic auctions, where you refer to how this system will operate, i.e. how it will be collected and assigned to the end of the use of the systems.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u349	Finish now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u350	I shall conclude, Mr President. I had seven minutes for normal. What else can we say about the amendments? What can we explain to the Greek people? That by pressing a button you'll take his house? What I have to say is do a favor to the Greek people, for the first time in your life. I don't know where, where you might have the money. Or even you do what the Prime Minister has promised. He promised that if there were no debt relief, there would be no agreement. Because debt relief is not going to exist, there will be no agreement. But I think there's going to be a deal. You will give food and water to the international loan sharks, because the chairs of power are sweet, very sweet.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u351	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u352	I will say one thing and close with it: Do not think that the Greek people will be patient forever. The knot arrived at the comb. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u353	The President has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u354	I think it is not possible to close this cycle of Mr Barbarousi's speech, without a clear disapproval by the House of the praise of violent energy, which was renamed here that he 'watched' the face of the later District Mr. Duros, at a national hearing and visual transmission by ANT1 three years ago. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] If all these years have passed and there is no minimum shame about the start of violent explosions, which have taken place for three years, beginning with the slapping and the "washing" of water, it is the least one has to say. The disapproval must be complete from the Parliament's point of view.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u355	I ask for the floor on personal grounds, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u356	Give him the floor. The President referred to him in his speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u357	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u358	Has the President here once condemned a terrorist attack at the Golden Dawn offices? Did the water glass hurt him? Once the president has condemned the left-wing attacks on the goldsmiths...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u359	The President of Parliament will address you with respect! Sit down! Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u360	Firstly, there has never been praise for such actions by a Stepping-up of the House and, secondly, to ask his parliamentary representative if in the Conference of Presidents for violent events which had taken place in their offices there was either complete disapproval or not. Let him ask Mr. Pappa, he's next to him. Do not seek to set aside all these years after that all these violent actions, which continue as a perception! It's a huge mistake, understand it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u361	We didn't rob a bank with a kalashnikov.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u362	"Working" isn't violence? What is it?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u363	Mr. Poppas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u364	Mr President, please, by force and by 'creating' mercy! You convicted, literally, not with the cameras. You said some halves at a Conference of Presidents and you have never condemned Members of the Golden Dawn, against Mr Hatzisavvas, against Mr Germenis, and you have been horrific about the water of the Dures. But they are, hypocrites and want to change the agenda of treason, which are doing today what you are bringing, as the last betrayal, the memorials. Shame on you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u365	Sit down! Mrs Theodora's speech is on the agenda.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u366	Thank you, Mr President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the limits of total depreciation, not only the rules of the Greek Parliament, but much more the substance of democracy. We have gone beyond the stage that we have brought the urgent and urgent bills, and we have moved to the stage of seeing a ratification of the fisheries agreement come in the form of last minute's amendments in the form of major changes to provisions, fiscal, economic and labour. Surprising has become the second type of government, apparently surpriseing the parties of Antipopulation and the Greek people. But I would suggest that the members of the conflict have no illusions. The Greek people are well aware of what is happening. He lives every day through the cuts and the great deprivations that have been imposed on him. So, that kind of stumbled tricks, such as today, not only do they not have the desired effect, but they succeed exactly the opposite, they make the world even more angry, whose intelligence you constantly underestimate. However, I would like to refer to both previous governments, which have been changing forty years in government and have held the fates of our country and of the people in their hands. Forty years the New Democracy and the PASOK were changing and brought with these governments Greece, our homeland to bankruptcy and to the edge of the cliff. Let's not forget. Mr Mitsotakis, whom I respect, does not think that the people have forgotten and that if elections are held now he has forgotten his own or as far as Mrs Gennamas is concerned, he has forgotten hers. Don't talk at the hanged man's house about rope. Let things go the way they are. Don't forget yours. Forty years you have ruled, and when you ran into New Democracy and PASOK I have not seen you bring any development work too. Don't talk about it. Let them go, as they go, and don't talk any more. Let me go on with the amendments. Let's go to the amendment with a general number of 1060 and a special number of 66. This is the most important change being made because it affects a large part of Greek citizens in terms of the amount of pensions. In order to save an additional EUR 250 million for the Greek state, the commitment to increase and adjust pensions goes further than 2022 to 2023. So until then, until 2023, we cannot expect any restoration to the injustices of the cuts in the main pensions. The Centro Association had consistently stressed and proposed a completely different approach to pensions so that the weak would not be penalised. Unfortunately - I do not want to talk about it, Mr President - we have not heard our proposals for the unification of double and triple pensions, and I am opposed to them, since the President has mentioned them. So, we are once again faced with a regulation which disappoints the average pensioner, who has lived too much, has seen too many haircuts, already thirteen times from New Democracy and others in recent years. Indeed, it is very important that this time the Court of Auditors' plenary raises very serious objections to the regulation, since it considers that in reality such a distant transfer, initially from 2017, is not justified, then 2020 and now 2023. I think that perhaps the SYRIZA-ANEL coup d'état estimates that between 2017 and 2022-2023 are intervening six, seven years, so that's why it made all 250 million euros, because in five, six or seven years, too many pensioners, from misery and hunger will have migrated to the Lord. The amount may be higher. There in heaven or in hell, where they've gone, there's no need to retire. Therefore, they have been very accurately predicted. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, your tolerance for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u367	Carry on, Mrs. Big Housekeeper.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u368	As regards Amendment No 1061 and Amendment No 67, once again it has been voted on a month ago. All of this shows that we are voting on both sides of the line. Now we're talking about banks. We are in favour of the parties having transparency in their financing, but let us not forget that the banking system has been very burdened by the financing of the parties and especially by the loans received by the two major parties, the owners of the New Democracy and the PASOK. You owe the New Democracy 200 million and the PASOK 240 million and you do not pay them back. You took them for voters' reasons and you don't pay them back. And now you say 50% is being held. But they'll never be repaid. You were partners and transferred to your voters - for a vote you took this money - such as a company or a father who entered a guarantor for a loan. Pay them with your parliamentary allowance, with your real estate, to repay these loans. There can be no three refinancing, three recapitalisations of the banks with the blood of the Greek taxpayer, because you owe the two major parties you owe the media. Pay them, then, so you can talk. If you owe it, you won't be able to speak. I would like to end by saying: Amendment No 1062 and specific number 68...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u369	Mrs. Big Economics, you're making it easier for the process, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u370	I would just like to say a few words, Mr President, about the electronic procedure. This electronic process will bring a great turbulence to borrowers, because it will take part anyone who cannot be controlled, will not pay for this paradox that must and will be...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u371	Put a perfect one, Mrs. Big Housekeeper.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u372	Yes, Mr. President. Honestly, give the borrowers the right to buy their loans first, and if they cannot, then proceed to auction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u373	Thank you, too. Mr. Mavrotas from the river has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u374	Thank you, Mr President. We are no longer surprised by the government's sloppiness, even if there are five prerequisites for closing the evaluation in a fishing penalty. And the thing is not whether we are dealing with school lenders or control freaks, as Mr. Tsakalotos said, or with irreparable cooper Greeks - you remember the contract with the "COSCO" that the Chinese caught you “with the sprout on your back” - the issue is that the insolvency of the SYRIZA Government - ANEL leads us to submit to parliamentary capsules. So we have arrived here a few days before the critical Eurogroup, to close the evaluation and vote for the latter - we hope - of the tails of the prerequisites. An evaluation we were talking about shutting down as quickly as possible to get the clouds of uncertainty out of the Greek economy. The government, however, made the mistake of pronouncing the debt as the sacred diaspora of negotiation, choosing the worst Timing before the German elections. In the basic debt ratio, i.e. the debt-to-GDP, he put all the eggs in the definition of the numerator in the debt, undercutting the denominator, the real economy, and we see this result. From 2.7% budget growth, the Ministry of Finance says 1.8% now and the OECD 1.1%. We have said so a thousand times, but have you mocked us, saying 'to sign whatever it is, without negotiating?' So we repeat this. Negotiation “with the back on the wall”, as you now end up, does not exist. It is not called a negotiation, it is called an invoicing of the kindness of others. And within everything, you come to ask for a consensus and a national policy. What we told you, that is, from August 2015, when you were calling "or ending them or ending them", sowing division and polarization and I heard Mr. Dousina earlier referring to the country of Greece as a disfellowshipped Saul. Of course, and the New Democracy then followed the polarization's kite, disguising in SYRIZA 2014, asking for elections here and now. First of all, you are due to a great apologies and to acknowledge your mistake, and then we see whether and how there can be national understanding. But let's go to the current. In the problem of the Greek crisis we are living in, there are exogenous and endogenous variables. The exogenous are not dependent on us, such as the international situation, the IMF, Germany, etc. The endogenous, however, is what we can do. What can we do? We're a bankrupt country, so we don't have any money, and we have to produce wealth. How? We need to attract investments. "A hundred billion in the next five to six years," some say. In other words, we must make certain privatizations and build the public sector so that it works for the benefit of society and the economy and not at the expense of it. Don't say it again, because it's not much time: Axisia, colonization, acceleration of justice, digitization of procedures to avoid bureaucracy, changes in education. As I said changes in education, I will take some time on this issue, because here is something that we can influence now, while in the prerequisites we have to discuss, we cannot influence anything. Let us not say that it is out of the question in this particular bill, with the specific amendments, because it will also be the greatest horror. The new law on universities entered the consultation the day before yesterday. Plural expressions such as "academic freedoms, restoration of democracy, asylum of ideas, knowledge is not a commodity" etc. They are used, an academic verbalism for the audience of the 1980s, but the seasons have passed it. These are not the problems of the Greek university. The problems of the Greek university are the ever fewer state money that goes to universities, which have to acquire extroversion, to survive in the international environment. How can these things be done? Of course not with what the bill dictates. The stadium is no longer the Greek state to collect paper students, but global competition. Knowledge may not be a merchandise, as is well said, but it can't be a rag. Because, if the cubit is constantly lowering, no matter what quality, then, yes, it becomes a rag. I'm going to be more specific about the arrangements in postgraduate schools that create such a suffocating framework that clashes with the self-employed of universities. Yes, he wants the subject of postgraduate, but no levelling. Yes, of course we should give the opportunity to those who do not have the financial opportunity, but how? Saying, for example, that 20% of students should necessarily be able to obtain a scholarship in postgraduate programmes, with income criteria, with incomprehensible criteria and not with exclusive academic content services, as the bill says, which those present in Jerusalem know how and how they develop customer relations. We should also point out this. In many postgraduate courses, they sometimes pay their employees to attend to them, so that the employers can then enjoy their services. The Greek taxpayer cannot be fully burdened with the burden of postgraduate studies of those who want to do so. There'll also be pseudo postgraduate conditions, because there'll be some teachers...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u375	Mr Matutes, please leave something for this particular debate of the bill in this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u376	Only one of our parties speaks, Mr President, and let me speak at least seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u377	Okay, talk, but I'm saying you're talking about another bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u378	Yeah, I'll see you around. In the end, then, the Ministry that wants a postgraduate without a tuition will end up having a tuition without a postgraduate degree, because all the good teachers will leave, all the students will leave outside and eventually, there will be no worthwhile postgraduate programs. Not to mention SYRIZA's enthusiastic desire for the abolition of institutions' councils, the undermining of the Quality Assurance Authority, the PPP, the strangling of the special research funds, whose reserves go to the Bank of Greece, the partiquitarians, which would be very interesting to hear the views of all parties on party domination at universities. We'll say a lot more then, because we don't have time today. I'm hanging up with this, Mr. President. I do not think that this particular debate on higher education is out of the question, when we talk about prerequisites, because to get out of the crisis, higher education I think it is the main prerequisite. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u379	Training for all suffering is capable.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u380	We don't talk much about her, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u381	Mr. Carras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u382	Thank you, Mr President. I think I'm the last of the speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u383	And not the last.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u384	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Ministers, 15 days ago, we were discussing the high-level reduction of the famous personal differences between old pensioners and the reduction of family benefits from 2019 onwards for a three-year period. There was a great debate in the Chamber on the constitutionality or not of these provisions. I had stood up and had, in my view, put forward objections of constitutionality, that unilaterally, the ruling majority had decided to cut these pensions by about EUR 2.5 billion a year, without looking for alternatives. And what did I mean by saying 'alternative solutions'? That it is not enough to cut off these pensions, because we are creating a further real climate in the economy and should have been examined, if these amounts were kept in the economy without the cuts, how would the multiplication of money function, what financial benefits could we have from the use of pensions and pensions to the consumer, so as to make the comparison and thus, whether or not they should have been circumvented, in the form of creditors' demands. Today, my conviction that these provisions had not been studied, had not been dealt with and that they have a question of unconstitutionality is being strengthened. And you know why? Because if I take note of the amendment, which concerns the amendment of No 4472/2017, I see a luxurious report, which is not linked to the proposed regulation and relates to the extension of the non-increase in pensions instead of 1-1-2022, until 1-1-2023, but is trying to fill the gap in the previous regulation, which had this whole pathology. So, in order to speak today about the new amendment to Law 4472/2017, we need to think about what sought and what errors were made in the regulation introduced by Law 4472, at least in Articles 1 and 2. I would also like to point out something else, before coming to a later point, a regulation which I think in the debate before a fortnight passed everyone's attention to the Chamber. Who's that? That the personal differences of post-L.4387/2016 pensioners are cut to 31-12-2018. That was not discussed at that time. They are being cut and this creates an interpretative problem. Are all personal differences cut and the pensioners' advances after 31/12-2018? I think it is a legal imperfection here, a regulation which can lead to misinterpretations, if you like, and there, it will be very difficult now if the conditions are used by the specialist in general terms. The reduction of personal differences and family allowances for the future is announced, which will come down by the adjustments of the fortnightly N.4472/2017. Of course, in terms of regulation, which comes with the non-increase amendment, it was expected, after the vote on No 4472, that the insurance system had now been suffocated. I have to say this. I have firmly formulated the conviction, ladies and gentlemen, that the pension cuts no longer relate to the insurance system itself, because they can be financed, but they concern the requirement of creditors to reduce pension expenditure as a percentage of GDP. They probably consider it high - rather high - but without taking into account the specific conditions of non-productive Greece, without taking into account the ageing population and unemployment. At the moment, the ageing population maintains whole families. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, if you are kind enough.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u385	Please facilitate the process, Mr. Carras. Go back all the talks.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u386	Thank you very much. The second issue is this: another amendment reiterates the delegation of supervision to the International Monetary Fund, the European Commission, the European Central Bank and the European CFS. We talked about it in the previous law. These were discussed. I don't see any changes, but I'm concerned. Is it already a repetition of a returning regulation? He'll tell us what? The substance does not come out of the explanatory statement either. But something else comes about, a stronger legislative mandate, that this supervision will be generalised, so as to ensure the primary surplus for the financial year 2019 onwards. I would also like to hear from the government what this time period is. Or will we leave it to say that now the primary surplus, 3.5% of GDP, still exists with this arrangement, which promotes future arrangements? So I think I should call these arrangements as non-friendly to the Greek people, as a result of many times unscheduled solutions and I will be in a negative position. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u387	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how it operates, forty-seven students and students and seven teachers attendants from the 15th Municipal School of Larissa. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Athanasios Papachristopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u388	Thank you, Mr President. I have listened very carefully to what the honourable Chief of Staff has said. Not a little, not much, the two and a half years of this government is the great cause of evil for this country. That's true, isn't it? Allow me, because I now live fresh in two committees, to say that it took thirteen years - and I wish the presumption of innocence to be verified - to refer Mr Giannis Papantoniou to the money laundering of black money. Thirteen years also took a second reference to tax violations. I remember the first day, when this committee went to be done. That's how the country ruled. They stood up in the air and in the Democratic Alliance, not so much by the New Democracy, I must confess. They said it's a fiasco and they need to come back. The results we saw and it's no coincidence at all. After thirteen years - and I say again that I wish man to be acquitted - something had to be done. The second case, in fact, has not been seen anywhere, on any channels and on any newspapers. They are what is happening now in the Health Committee for Henry Dunn. It is a response to what happened in the country to the two and a half years of governance by SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks. So we have seen the unprecedented, unprecedented one in a hospital where the mandate of doctors by law is calculated as a pre-service to the National Health System - that is, it is not a private clinic, it is a normal public-private institution, a hospital - in how a forced auction took place. Unprecedented phenomenon throughout the planet. I challenge you to tell me when, under what circumstances and in which country a hospital, mutually beneficial establishment is literally being thrown into the private sector. Of course, and all the privileges the doctors had until then. And I see it being on the Management Board names - I am not referring to Mr Martine who will be judged - such as Mrs Sala, Mr Costas Bourras, Mr Samaras' right hand. I see Mr. Lykouros Liaropoulos taking 30,000 a month. I, with 30,000 000, would not just say "They grow strong, they break the chump." And more than I'd say. I don't want to lie, but I'm only saying one thing. That's how the country ruled. Mr. Salas, 20 April, referred for a felony by the Prosecutor of Corruption, and referred his case to Mr. Bree. I should also like to say that Mr Bulutas and the tax that they live in - because the late Vegeopulus no longer lives - are indictees. With bail they're out with 200,000 and they don't dare go to Cyprus. These two people negotiated the sale of a mutually beneficial institution, which has never been on the planet before. After ten years, the trial of “SIEMENS” was finally held. What took so long? Now the Post Bank trial begins. That's how the country ruled. I want here - and I will be brief - to mention the risk of 4% surplus, while 0.5% was to catch, the danger because exports went close to 6% for the first time, riskology and devaluation, because normal investments increased to around 12%. Unemployment is falling even slightly, from 27% to 22.5%. Nothing. ELSTAT comes in and reviews the data on the recession and says "development". Nothing. We are told: 'You are dangerous'. Sixty-sixty-six applications of small and medium-sized enterprises are currently coming out to invest 2 billion in the new development law. We're throwing all this in the trash. And I ask: Because virginity does not even exist in nature, almost abandoned, will you finally answer us, who are worthy and capable and who are able to move our hand and you want to rule again: Where did the billions of the stock market go? I'm addressing this party, where no one is here. Where did the Olympics overpriced go? The billions? Where did the overprications go to armaments, health, ‘SIEMENS’, to the Agricultural Bank? Who are they, in fact, on the Boryans lists, Lagard, Panama Papers? I say that because it's not two and a half years, gentlemen. This country was looted and when that government took over in January 2015 had a debt of 325 billion, which was not its fault. It had from 120% GDP 180% and it wasn't for it. Already the Greek citizens had lost 1/4 of their property, and unemployment was already in an unprecedented figure of 27% and you've been coming here for two and a half years. Does anyone really believe you? I'm one of those who's self-criticizing. Yeah, we made mistakes. We've said too much. We were ignorant of danger. We made wrong choices. One thing we did and we would not do and we would never do: 'the hand in honey'. Because if this country is suffering right now, it is suffering because some politicians - not all of them - "driving deep hands" and so the whole political world has been deceived. [[Applause from SYRIZA and ANEL wings]] Yeah, I'm not apologizing. I only apologise to the Greek citizen, who is actually suffering. I respect that thing. I may hear evils, and he's right, because I rule, and I have the political cost. On the 15th of the month we have a titanic match. He knows the financial staff better and may be repeated on the 22nd day. What were we supposed to do? Not to vote on what we voted a long time ago and not even today on the prerequisites? If, indeed, you do have a reasonable thought and you also have a sense of measure within you at night answer: could we say 'no' at the moment? Who made us a weak link? Who made us a weak link after forty years of plundering? [[Applause from SYRIZA and ANEL wings]] Yes, the winner imposes his terms. I agree with you. It's not the most honorable. We're locked up. We're obligated. We all know that the southern deficits and ours are Germany's surplus. I want to finish, because I have no time and I promised the President-in-Office that something was done in England and some people underestimated it: in 2003, the Labour Blair, together with son Bush, said the nonsense about Saddam - who was a dictator, but had no nuclear power - and they prepared a war that cost more than four hundred thousand dead and an instability throughout the region. He had shown courage alone in Hyde Park, isolated. He was questioned by his parliamentary group, the entire elite of England. And yesterday this man proved - he may be an honest politician - that sooner or later, the right is vindicated. I'm telling you the polls showed him twenty-seven points back. He did not hesitate when Mae told him to go to elections and said "yes, let's go". He was hit and played hard. It's a strong message and take it into consideration, because Maranzidis and the other polls are coming and going. 50% of Greeks do not participate in any survey. And you know you've got 85% collapsing. A 50% of the Greeks are waiting for something from us and will have it! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u389	Mr. Dendias has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u390	Mr President, I will not be late. Besides, the members of the National Representation are tired. It's Friday night. The day was a great day and not a pleasant day, at least for the majority Members. I note, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, that you have found a new national hero, a new hug, to comfort you, the one being treated as the best of Mr Jeremy Corbin's expected defeat in the United Kingdom. And I imagine that you think or hope that polls are wrong, that the evidence is wrong, or - if you want, some of you who believe in conspiracy - falsified to benefit New Democracy and that in the end...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u391	When was that? Never!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u392	Did you see where I told you? Did you see where I told you? Of course, all this, when the time comes, as magically overturned, and you will redirect towards a glorious electoral victory, in which the people will throw you with rose petals and so on. Look: Consolation or fairy is essential in life. Of course, it usually addresses younger ages than those in this Chamber. But it is perfectly understandable - and I would say to you - that it is under pressure to react by leaving reality. But here, let's get back to reality. What is today's reality? Beyond the very interesting position of the Professor back on the real problems facing the European Union, there is a real need to discuss at some point seriously, not for the sake of our internal audience, but seriously what needs to be done to keep the European Union on its feet. Because I fully agree with you that the European Union is in an existential crisis, that it has a huge deficit of democratic legitimacy, that the Commission has ceased to be the institution that the Treaties provide, that the European Parliament has ceased to be the body that the Treaties provide, that all strength is moved to the Council of Ministers and from there to the strongest force today in Germany. It's all like that. And perhaps it is time to sit down and have a serious conversation about it, but not, for the sake of our internal audience, not to create false enemies, whom we can fight later, such as Don Quixote the windmills, but to see what Greece wants to do in this Europe, how it can help - if it can help - to re-create it. But today the reality we have to discuss here is not European integration and what we can do for it. It is much more pedestrian and - if you want - far less devalued for all of us here, for the National Parliament. It is five amendments, which come to fit into an international convention for the General Committee on Fisheries of the Mediterranean, to regulate major issues, such as pension, collective bargaining, and not only to regulate them, but also to provide a general framework for each of them in this Chamber. For, Minister, no matter how polite you have tried to talk about negotiating, no one is concerned that they are treating you as Minister, to the government as government and to the country as a country in submissive conditions. And we tell you that neither antimony of your own school were revolutionary flags nor we call the world in the squares. But they must oblige you ten days after the law has been passed to bring you here in the form of an amendment, in the form of a simple verbal wording, to convince an official - because that cannot be politically enough - that the wording is sufficient, that is also demeaning for you as Minister and for the government as both a government and a country as a country. These things here you shouldn't have agreed to bring them in. And if this does not constitute the maximum confession of your negotiating failure, what does it recommend? You cannot feel proud of these settings. You can't feel that. Do you not understand that, in any case, this whole procedure is being fooled? Who takes you seriously, when you are imposed ten days after you have brought a law that was passed, to change the word because it was not enough? How do your counterparties recruit the procedure in the Greek Parliament, except as a subjugation procedure? Tell me which other European Union country would the government - not a government that has said what you have said, but a government which simply has a parliamentary majority - come to propose a verbal wording and, indeed, with an amendment that is late in a fish contract and claims to be a government of an independent country? Ladies and gentlemen, let us not be fooled. You can enjoy yourself as much as you want what you do today. You know, however, each one of you in your soul and in your conscience that these are unacceptable things. It is a shame both for you and parliament and for the country. And there are responsibilities. There are no posts alone, there are no posts. The post has responsibilities. Anyone who brought the country to this point must be forced, in order to close an assessment, to amend laws which they voted on ten days ago, to be responsible.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u393	Who is it? Tell him. He's got a name.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u394	Don't you know who he is? You don't know your government ministers? Don't you know a minister who said that "if I come here and bring a tax reduction, will I quit?" Don't you know the name of a minister who said that 'if I come here and recommend a reduction in pensions, will I resign'? If I tell you the name Euclidis Tsakalotos, do you hear it first? You don't recognize him in the cabinet, and you ask us who is responsible for this negotiation? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, the government downhill...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u395	Quiet, please. It's over, Mr. Dendias.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u396	On the downhill there are always limits which your personal dignity must at some point, because you understand very well that party subjection, the concept of government bailout can no longer be the criterion. I can assure you that you have exceeded a very distinct limit today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u397	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, twenty-four students and students and five educational attendants from the 10th Elementary School of Katerini. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The Minister for Finance, Mr Euclidis Tsakalotos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u398	After thanking the New Democracy, which only by listening to my name applauds, I will pass to the main part of my speech. I would like to begin with a report by the Chief of Officerial Response, Mr. Mitsotakis, Mr. Skourletis, the Minister of the Interior, that we have suffered too many defeats. He did not have the kindness of Mr. Mitsotakis reading immediately after what Mr. Skourletis said. But the biggest defeat is when you adopt your opponent's suggestions. We'll never do that. That's our difference.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u399	Please, you'll listen now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u400	Because we have never said and have never adopted the view that debt is sustainable. We never went like the North People's Party politicians who told us "you don't need to reduce the debt, you do your job, your reforms and we'll see about the debt". We never accepted that, you adopted this. We never said that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u401	You just signed, that's what you did.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u402	Calm down, please. We've heard you, listen to you. Is it wrong that you said the debt is viable? Is it wrong that the People's Party in the North constantly tells you that there is no need to ease the debt and only to make reforms? Is it wrong? Why do you have this outburst? Did I say something wrong? That's exactly why it hurts you, and that's why you don't want to hear it. I would also like to say that in November 2012 this debt decision - which you and PASOK referred to as 'if necessary' - is a comparison measure. I'm telling you to hear it, or you'll hear it again in a month. We will check after the decision of 15 June if, in the short and medium term, there is more clarity for the medium term and we will continue and maximise short-term measures - it will have the words 'if necessary'. To make this comparison. Because to your November 2012, he said that the Eurogroup is ready to do other things about the debt, if necessary. Now he won't say that phrase and you'll see it. Here we go, and we'll see. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] I don't understand why you're saying we've put too much weight on the debt. Why do you say that? Haven't you heard what the IMF says? Have you not heard that debt is unsustainable and that Europeans need to do more? Don't you know that the Germans and the Dutch have said that without the IMF there is no programme? So what are you telling us? Should we be harder or less harder with the IMF? Shall we love it less or love it more? But you're not saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u403	What do you think?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u404	We call an interim situation. We know we have huge disagreements with the IMF, but it's useful for the debt. You don't take a position. We haven't heard of your position on the IMF. Is he supposed to stay on the schedule or shouldn't he? Nothing.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u405	What do you think?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u406	I told you what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u407	What do you think? To stay or to leave? Because you said in between.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u408	Please, ladies and gentlemen. Be quiet. We are not far from farthers, we are parliamentary groups. You must listen to each other, and you must listen to each other.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u409	Are you addressing me, Mr. President? Apply the Rules of Procedure. Because the Rules of Procedure forbid anyone from speaking from the Step to be personally addressed to the Members, but they must be addressed to the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u410	Please, sit down.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u411	I am sorry that you are not applying this. And of course, when someone turns to me, I'll answer him.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u412	Please, be quiet. Anyone who is not interested in hearing, out of the hall. The rest of you will be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u413	I think, ladies and gentlemen, that today the Opposition considered that it would bring us to our knees, to our knees, to be humiliated, to be a great disaster, and so on. They didn't come out, and now they want to make a show for seven. You can hear what I have to say. It didn't come out of you today, as you didn't get out of the fact that the government was going to fall and that I'm going to come back to it. The second thing we have not adopted is the committee. As I explained to you this morning, we've had a big fight. We have sent letters to the institutions about how they do surveillance even at the lowest point, we have also made reference to the European Court of Auditors for the attitude of the European institutions. We have done everything we can to try to achieve a gradual reduction in surveillance in our strategy. That is why we had the strategy that all the prerequisites should be closed, so that there is no justification for the debt issue and for the QE. You're saying we didn't get anything. But we didn't accept anything. On 22 May we were the ones who did not accept the agreement. You're always telling us that we're stalling. I want to know what you will say if the agreement is better than that on 15 June and if we had to accept the agreement on 22 May. Because I think it'll be better. I think we have done well, and we have been discussing both the debt and the denominator, which various people have said, in order to increase demand. Because you will see that there will also be issues of growth and investment in the Eurogroup's decision. You will see that there will also be references to short-term debt measures and to how they can be accelerated. You will also see that there will be greater clarity for the medium term. And you will perhaps see some mechanism after the program, not what will be applied in the medium term. So wait before you politically commit that there will be no solution to the debt or the rating will be closed. At least don't tell us we don't have credibility. You know, it's a huge mistake to believe the newspapers that support you. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] It may be useful politically, and we have political problems, because our voice is not heard, our arguments are not heard, but it would be a bigger mistake to believe them. Because when you attack our credibility, listen to what they say beyond our borders about who is trustworthy and who they believe. I do not think that the New Democracy in the two years that it has made Anti-Population has increased its credibility rates to public opinion and common people, to whom you want to address. The third thing we have not adopted is austerity. Of course, we have also imposed austerity measures. Mr. Stakoras once again calculated it at EUR 14.5 billion. It's not that much, but let me accept that. So, as I have already explained, you have put EUR 60 billion in five years, namely EUR 12 billion a year. In other words, even if Mr Stakoras is right, even if you do not count on the countermeasures, the average is again EUR 2 billion compared to EUR 12 billion.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u414	On average.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u415	The average is EUR 2 billion compared to EUR 12 billion. Last I knew that 12 is a little larger than 2! That's what I know! [[Laughing - applause from the wing of SYRIZA]] That is why, because we have tried to reduce austerity and surpluses, we see the bloom that is slowly there. That is why ELSTAT has changed, because it sees the microdata which it had not calculated before, namely that there is the production base in both industry and manufacturing and services. That is why, as the Minister for Labour has said, there is a record of the jobs that have been created in the last five months. Mr. Mitsotakis tells us we're hiding. We are the only government that had a political defeat in the summer of 2015 and we went to elections. We went to the world and said to him: 'Do you accept this compromise to move forward?' We didn't have Zappeia, and then we changed without elections. We went to elections, we had a programme. We all knew about the memorandum. That's not what you're hiding.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u416	Now?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u417	Now what keeps you from going to elections?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u418	He said Mr. Mitsotakis in his previous speech when discussing the multi-brand plan, that he had never heard of a Chief, a Prime Minister, to deal so much with the program of Officerial Opposition. I don't want to answer Mr. Mitsotakis. First of all, he's not here and he wouldn't be nice. After all, what I would like to say applies to my Chief and the Chief of Independent Greeks and all the other Chiefs.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u419	Where are they? Mr. Tsipras and Mr. Kammenos where is he?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u420	Mrs. Vulture, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u421	And what I'm saying comes from my experience twenty-eight years in Britain. Because if you're studying economic and political sciences in Britain, the main political event, which always surprises you, is how it is possible for Winston Churchill to lose the 1945 elections. How was the leader who sat for at least one year, without either the Soviet Union or America, which ended...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u422	Was that Churchill?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u423	If you're going to interrupt humor, say something funny. If you're going to say such things, there's no need.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u424	Didn't you like it?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u425	How can this leader lose? And you know why he lost? Because the British people in 1945 knew that only the workers will complete the welfare state, the social state. The people who voted in 1945 knew that only the labour party would reduce unemployment. What do I mean? That people are looking forward. You say we have the worst memorial. We say you dropped the GDP of 25%. You know? We're both talking about it, people won't hear it in the election. We say so, you say so. I may think I'm right, you think you're right, but people won't hear it in elections. Do you know what he'll hear in the elections? He'll look ahead of who has a program that when we get out of the crisis, he'll have something about his pocket, something about his values, something about his children's future. That's what he'll look at. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And that's what you need to be careful about, because we in recovery will keep the public, public. We and the university, Mr. Mavrotas, will keep it public, with public values. It will not be anything in the private sector, investing and paying for research that suits him. We'll keep it public. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And we'll keep the hospitals in public. It will not be like Henry Dunan. The people will be proud of both their schools and their universities and their hospitals. And when we go forward, we'll have a growth that the world will believe us that this growth will be fairer. Because no one no longer believes in the people's party in Europe that it can bring this development in a fair way, because it has shown, where it has ruled, that inequality has increased. Because he's not interested in this part of the world. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And it will be a development with new tools that will have other social actors that can create different quality development. Finally, it is not just economic matters. We want this development to have rights and a respect for all the citizens of this country. For us, it's just as important as what's going on in prisons. For us, the rights are equally important. For us as important is tomorrow's meeting of the "Gay Pride", because we want a Greece that is modern, open, without prejudice. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And we will go to the Greek people with such a programme, because we have something we want to say and then the memorials.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u426	Yes, but you will hope that we will vote for them, because you cannot!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u427	It seems that this House was not so tired. [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[Let the page in. 410a]] Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on principle, articles and amendments is adjourned...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u428	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u429	Sit down, Mr. Black.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u430	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u431	And you, Brutus child? And you, Mr. Black?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u432	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u433	But no personal references were made.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u434	Done, Mr. President. Wait a minute, I want the floor on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u435	Mr. Black, you also stuck the microbe. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u436	I just want to say to the Minister, because he said about public education, that I, too, am clearly in favour of public education. And I went to public school, and my kids went to public school, I don't know about him! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u437	The debate on the principle, Articles, amendments and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food is therefore closed: 'Following the amended Agreement establishing the General Committee on Fisheries for the Mediterranean, public pension arrangements and other provisions'. Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u438	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u439	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u440	Democratisation is far from the point of view.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u441	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u442	The JRC is far from there.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u443	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u444	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u445	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u446	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food: ‘Undertaking of the Amended Agreement establishing the General Fisheries Commission for the Mediterranean, public pension arrangements and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority of the members of the Committee on Fisheries. We are entering the vote on articles and amendments. A request has been made for a roll-call vote of New Democracy Members on ministerial amendments 1058/64, 1059/65 and 106/66/66, the text of which reads as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u447	I will also read out the list of signatories to request a roll-call vote in order to determine whether there is the number required by the Rules of Procedure for it. Mr. Dendias Nikolaos. Here you go. Mr. Brutsis John. Here you go. Mr. Tsiaras Konstantinos. Here you go. Mr. Stylos George. Here you go. Mrs. Papacosta Catherine. Here. Mrs Martinou Georgia. Here. Mr. Stavros Christos. Here you go. Mr. Bukouros Christos. Here you go. Mr. Giannakis Stergios. Here you go. Mr. Katsaniotis Andreas. Here you go. Mr. Giulekas Kostantinos. Abstentions. Mr. Skrekas Konstantinos. Here you go. Mr. Georgios George. Here you go. Mr. Athanasios Charalambos. Here you go. Mr. Vlassis Constantine. Here you go. Mr. Stamatis Dimitrios. Here you go. Mrs. Vultish Sophia. Here. Mr. Besiropoulos Apostolos. Here you go. Ladies and gentlemen, there is the number of signatories required by the Rules of Procedure for a roll-call vote. We are therefore adjourned for ten (10') minutes in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u448	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. There will be a roll-call vote on the Ministerial Amendments 1058/64, 1059/65 and 106/666 of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food bill ‘Following the amended Agreement establishing the General Fisheries Commission for the Mediterranean, public pension arrangements and other provisions’. I would like to ask the President-in-Office of the Council whether he would like to make a statement on the situation in The non-acceptance of the amendments means 'OHS'. The voters say 'PARON'. Parliamentarians Mr Anastasia Gara from SYRIZA and Mr Apostolos Vesyropoulos from New Democracy are on the list. I would also like to inform you that fax (fax) colleagues have come to the Bureau in accordance with Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure, which makes their vote known on the amendments to the bill. These votes will be announced and taken into account in the count, which will be followed. Please start reading the directory. I would like to inform the House that four colleagues have requested priority in the vote and have substantiated the reason why they have requested it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u449	Is there a colleague who didn't hear his name? Nobody. The letters sent to the Bureau by colleagues under Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure will be recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u450	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that my fellow Members, and Mr von der Vring, have taken part in this debate. Theocharis (Harris) Theocharis, Gregory Psarianos, Antonios Samaras, Emmanouil Konsolas, Stavros Kalafatis, Ioannis Placiotakis, Ioannis Kefaliannis, George Kasapidis, Vassilios Joyakas, Maximos Charakopoulos, Athanasios Bouras, Elena Raptis, Konstantinos Gioulekas, Nikos Keramos and Dimitrios Kyriazides will not be present in today's roll-call vote and let us know if they were present and present. These letters, which express the intention of voting, will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting, but are not taken into account in the counting of votes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u451	Ladies and gentlemen, the vote is adjourned and I would ask the voters to count on the votes and to get the result. [[COMMUNICATION]] Until the count is completed, we shall proceed to vote on the remaining articles and amendments. Asked by this House: Can Article first be accepted as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u452	Mr President, in order not to repeat it, we are voting for ratification. Make a total placement...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u453	That's not helping, Mr. Brutsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u454	It helps. I think it's easier.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u455	I can't remember what you said.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u456	Good. We are voting for ratification in all of the articles.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u457	Good. Does this House therefore ask: is the first article accepted as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u458	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u459	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u460	The PASOK Democratic Compact - DIMAR is far away.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u461	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u462	The JRC is far from there.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u463	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u464	Mr President, I will make that clear. We are voting on the articles of the European Convention. For the amendments, which are different, I will see you later.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u465	The first article was therefore accepted as a majority. Does the House agree to the second paragraph, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u466	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u467	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u468	The PASOK Democratic Compact - DIMAR is far away.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u469	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u470	The JRC is far from there.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u471	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u472	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u473	The second article, as amended by the Minister, was therefore accepted by a majority. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 1061 and a special number 67 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u474	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u475	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u476	The PASOK Democratic Compact - DIMAR is far away.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u477	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u478	The JRC is far from there.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u479	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u480	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u481	Therefore, the amendment under general number 1061 and a special 67 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does this House accept the amendment under a general number 1062 and a special number 68 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u482	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u483	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u484	The PASOK Democratic Compact - DIMAR is far away.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u485	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u486	The Communist Party of Greece is far from the point of view.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u487	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u488	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u489	Therefore, the amendment under a general number 1062 and a special 68 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u490	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of the roll-call vote. A total of 237 Members voted in favour of the Ministerial Amendment No 1058. In addition to the amendment 'NAI', 153 Members voted. On the amendment, namely 'No', 84 Members voted. 'PARON' voted no one. The Ministerial Amendment under number 1058 and special 64 were therefore accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. The Ministerial Amendment No 1059 was adopted by a total of 237 Members. In addition to the amendment 'NAI', 153 Members voted. On the amendment, namely 'No', 84 Members voted. 'PARON' voted no one. The Ministerial Amendment No 1059 was therefore accepted as it is majority voting and is part of the bill as the same article. A total of 237 Members voted in favour of the Ministerial Amendment No 1060. In addition to the amendment 'NAI', 153 Members voted. On the amendment, namely 'No', 84 Members voted. 'PARON' voted no one. The Ministerial Amendment under a general number of 1060 and a special 66 was therefore accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u491	We are entering the vote of the nominee. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u492	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u493	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u494	The PASOK Democratic Compact - DIMAR is far away.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u495	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u496	The Communist Party of Greece is far from the point of view.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u497	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u498	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u499	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food: ‘Following the Amended Agreement establishing the General Fisheries Commission for the Mediterranean, public pension arrangements and other provisions’ was accepted in principle and on articles. We move on to vote on the bill and on the whole. Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u500	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u501	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u502	The PASOK Democratic Compact - DIMAR is far away.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u503	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u504	The Communist Party of Greece is far from the point of view.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u505	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u506	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u507	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food: ‘Following the amended Agreement establishing the General Fisheries Commission for the Mediterranean, public pension arrangements and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, on the principle of Articles and the whole, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u508	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u509	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minutes of Thursday 6 April 2017, Friday 7 April 2017, the Great Monday 10 April 2017 and the Great Tuesday 11 April 2017 have been distributed and the House is asking whether it will ratify them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u510	The minutes of Thursday 6 April 2017, Friday 7 April 2017, the Great Monday 10 April 2017 and the Great Tuesday 11 April 2017 were validated. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-09-S1-commons.u511	With the consent of the House at the time of 19.49' the sitting on Monday, June 12, 2017, at 17.00', on the subject of Parliament's work, parliamentary scrutiny: (a) a debate on topical questions, and (b) a debate on the question by No. 26/15-2017 question by the Member of the New Democracy Mr. Konstantinos Achilleas Karamanlis to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport on the subject: "About the control of the procedure for the collection and reimbursement of sums of SSY, coming from ticketing".
