ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION of PRACTICE: According to the House’s 21-6-2017 authorisation of the PLZ PLZ minutes, of Wednesday 21 June 2017, with regard to the vote on the entire draft law: I) ‘Strengthening and adaptation of the Greek legislation to the Warsaw Convention of 16 May 2005 on money laundering, detection, confiscation and confiscation of proceeds of criminal activities and on the financing of terrorism, incorporation of A - P/5877/JHA, A - 2005/212/JHA, A - P/783/JHA, as amended by the A - Π 2009/299/JHA and Directive 2014/42/EU, II) Requirements for the placement of minors in an institution or a contracted family by and to Member States - Member States of the European Union under Article 56 of Council Regulation (EC) No 2201/2003 of 27 November 2003 on the right of access to European Union criminal proceedings and disputes for the protection of human rights in the framework of third parties (EC) against the protection of third party’.]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House the topical and urgent question issue of Friday 23 June 2017. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Greven of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Christos Beyala to the Minister of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information on the transition to the digital signal for large parts of the province. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Under number 1035/16-6/2017, the current question of the country's energy stability following the flooding in Amytino was tabled by MEPs in New Democracy, Mrs. Catherine Papakostas - Ironopoulou, Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the country's energy stability following the flooding in Amytino. 3.H by No 1025/13-6-2017 a topical question by MP II Athens of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdus to the Minister of State and Government, on the subject: "Professionals at PEGASOS", "THTHENS S.A." B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 1036/16-6-2017 by Mr. Achaias, Member of the Republic of New Democracy, Mr. Jason Fotella, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Will a solution be finally given to the issue of AMIADIT?". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Under number 1069/20-6/2017, a topical question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassiliou Kegeroglou to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: ‘What is the case with red agricultural loans and the extrajudicial compromise? - The urgent need for their sustainable regulation'. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Question No 5043/19-4-2017 by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMARK Vassilios Kegeroglou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the postponement of the program "Security at Home".
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS Today, only three will be discussed. Immediately after the first question, I will announce what is not discussed. So we start with the third with the number 1028/14-6-2017 timely question of the first cycle of the MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odyssea Konstantinopoulos to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Reimbursement of farmers in Aleppohori, in Pigadakia, in Vourvourras and in Vlachokerasia, of the Municipality of Tripolis Arcadia, following the natural disaster caused by total destruction on June 11th". The Minister for Rural Development and Food will answer Mr Evangelos Apostolos. Mr. Constantinople has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I think you'll know this. On 11 June there was quarries in this region and there was a total disaster. Why am I telling you this? Especially in the area of the former Municipality of Skiritis in the Municipality of Tripoli, apart from the fact that main employment is agricultural, they are also potato sports producers, as you will know. It is extremely important and there will be great problems in this sector. But it is not just that potatoes have been destroyed and, more generally, fruit and vegetables. I think there's nothing left. If someone went there, it would see a total disaster at all levels, as in feed. Oats, vet, barley, were completely destroyed in this area. I know that so far no one from the ELGA has gone to record the damages and see how these people will be able to compensate quickly, so that they can respond to the issues they have so far. What are these matters? They owe money - and you know it better than all the relevant ministers - to geoponders and associations from which they have taken seeds and pesticides, and today they will not be able to cope, because there is no production. I would ask you to tell me what the timetable for the EPP and your Ministry is on this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u5	The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u6	Mr Colleagues, I do not think you will disagree that we are living unprecedentedly - in terms of climate conditions and natural disasters and with huge impacts on the rural area. The damage you mentioned on June 11, 2017 is about as you saw it. We have already made the necessary points from the point of view of ELGA, and we are in the process of submitting statements of damage from producers. The work of individualized assessments will begin immediately. I would say to you that within the week, especially the coming, at any rate before the end of the date of submission of the declarations, which is 26 June. There are, of course, damages to potato crops, damage to savages, for which they will follow the relevant procedure. We, because you know that there was a problem about the possibility of ELGA, and after the well-known issue with the valuers of ELGA, we have already received additional staff in the Tripolis branch through the well-known eight-month seasonal employment and when the relevant assessment process is completed, you know that the findings will be communicated. Of course, particularly in October, which will be linked to the integrated elements that OPECE will have, I would say, will be the benchmark for the payment of these allowances. There has been damage to other crops, such as brown crops. That's where we have a problem. That is not the case for those damages that are done before flowering. It is a matter that concerns us. What I want to tell you is that all the estimates will be made and, as I have said, the premiums will be paid through the procedure. In these damages you are referring to, in particular in May 2017, no damage has been detected which exceeds 30%, and that is why no statements were made by producers. It is an issue which, in fact, has been closed. We have already made payments for the damages of 2016. EUR 6,700,000 was granted for compensation to producers in Arcadia. A few objections have been raised. We will consider these objections, to see how they are through - I am telling you - a broad interpretation, to be able to cover as many producers as possible, because we in fact want in a difficult period to keep them up. As far as damages, which are not covered by the premium, are concerned with equipment, are related to installations, it is the well-known procedure of the MAGPs which requires the preparation of dossiers, the submission to the European Union and, of course, the coverage of State aid.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u7	Mr. Constantinople has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u8	Minister, with regard to the disasters in May, which you said there were no statements, I cannot know everything, but today farmers are watching us from this region and I think they will know something. I'll tell you something, if you'll excuse me. I brought you something to see and understand - and I will give it to you to have it with you, because I think you should see it - what was the disaster in this region. I've kept it since last week when I went to this area. I will give it to you to see that there is no way these people - and I am not just talking about chestnuts - have an income of not 1 euros. Now, the case of chestnuts is two topics: these are the issues that you have raised in relation to the regulation, which we need to see as a whole. And it is the well-known issue with the wedge, which we will have - I think - next week the possibility of discussing, which is very important and destroying the whole process. I would like to say to you, however, that I am positive that by next week, in the next ten days - here we will be appraising it - they will go to valuers to see exactly what has been done. I am not forgetting and I say that in the first days, without appreciating it, the head of ELGA from the region, who I think has seen exactly what has happened and I think you will also mobilise, after the question, and all the auditors responsible for going next week or ten days. They're not large, they're in a certain area, so they can easily see what's going on and what hasn't happened. As far as the rest is concerned, now I hope it is not in the logic that says 'Returb and put seeds for new tomatoes or potatoes'. Look, in order for a producer to put new tomatoes or potatoes, he must find money to put them and because he is already indebted to the union, to the aggressors, to the offices, whoever suggests this to him is like he doesn't know what's going on. Minister, we are waiting next week - and the farmers are waiting for us to go - and here we will be, to give us a timetable, after they appreciate, for when these people will be paid. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u9	Mr. Apostleus has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u10	I will only say a few words, Mr Colleagues: you know that I will take what you have brought me, but our approach, especially to the issues of damage, is to keep going and visit all the regions personally. The day before yesterday, we had a big problem in Argolida. I will repeat that we are trying to do our utmost. I am sure we will have to see tomorrow - and the issue of the re-orientation of the insurance risks in the rural area, covered by the ELGA, in general. It is, however, a process that needs to be documented and to see whether we will be able to strengthen the ELGA by strengthening it, when there are possibilities, from state resources, so that it can respond to the great problem that the space is currently experiencing.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u11	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I now come to the announcement of some of the topical questions that will not be discussed. The first question under number 1039/19-6/2017 of the first cycle of the Athens MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Nicholaos Xydakis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on "Employment of Retired Disabled Persons", will not be discussed after the Minister has been consulted with the MP. The first, with number 1040/19-6-2017, topical question by the Member of the Heracleon Parliament of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Nikolaos Igoumenidis to the Minister of Home Affairs, on the subject: "Regulatory settlement of debts of the Municipal Wastewater Sewage Corporation Heraklion", will not be discussed due to lack of competence. The Ministry of Finance is responsible. The second question under number 1033/16-6/2017, first question by MP Ioannina of New Democracy, Konstantinos Tasulas to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Lugian guard in the villages of the Municipality of Pogonios Ioannina", will not be discussed due to the absence of the Deputy Minister Mr. Toska abroad. The third, with number 1029/15-2017, a topical question for a second question by MP II of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr.Ioannis Ragos to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "An independent crime of the Roma has turned the Menidian into an illegal man", will not be discussed due to the absence of the Deputy Minister Mr. Toska abroad. The seventh question under number 976-2017 of the Greek Parliamentary I - Golden Dawn Mr. Antonio Gregos to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "The desecration of the sacred monument of the Unknown Soldier as a result of continuous impunity", will not be discussed due to the absence of the Deputy Minister Mr. Toska abroad. Eighth under number 982/8-6-2017, a topical question by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of the Interior regarding the break-up of stores in Piraeus, will not be discussed due to the absence of the Deputy Minister Mr. Toska abroad. The ninth, under number 984/9-6-2017, topical question of the Attica MP, Mr. Mavroudi Voridis, to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Death child injury in Acharnes", will not be discussed due to the absence of the Deputy Minister, Mr. Toska, abroad. The tenth under number 991/12-2017 topical question of the Parliamentary Attica of the Democratic Integration PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Paraskevi Christophilopoulos to the Minister of Home Affairs on the protection and safety of the non-negotiable Acharnes residents will not be discussed due to the absence of the Deputy Minister Mr. Toska abroad. Eleni Zaroulia to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: “Continued terrorist attacks against MS from para-state elements”, will not be discussed due to the absence of the Deputy Minister of the Interior Mr. Toska abroad. The twelfth question under number 928/2-6-2017 by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of the Interior, concerning the uncontrolled action of the hooded anarchists, will not be discussed due to the absence of the Deputy Minister of Interior Mr. Toska abroad. The fifth, with number 1070/20-20-6-2017, top-level question by the Member of the Communist Party of Greece, Stavros Tassos, to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "To take immediate measures to compensate for the immediate damage caused to seismopathies and the damage to Lesvos", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, Mr. Spirtzi, due to a workload (his transfer to Mytilini due to an earthquake). The sixth question, number 980/7-6-2017, on the second question of the Parliamentary Serres of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.MAR.Michael Jeleli to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "The creation of three new toll stations on the Promahona road - Serres - Port of Thessaloniki is disastrous for the Prefecture of Serres", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, Mr. Spirtzi due to a workload (transition to Mytilini due to an earthquake). The seventh question under number 1072/20-20-6/2017, first question by the MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Syngakia to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the redundancies of six workers and extrajudicial threats of S.A. to workers, will not be discussed due to a workload of the relevant Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Mrs.Achtsioglou. The fourth under number 1071/20-6-2017 topical question by MP II of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: “Security of the payment of the remuneration due, the guarantee of all insurance rights and the continued employment of employees of the "ATHENS LEDRA" hotel by the new entrepreneurial group, will not be discussed due to a workload of the relevant Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity Mr.Achieves Ahtsioglou. The fifth question, under number 1073/20-6/2017, of the second question of the Achaia Parliamentary Party of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the problems of workers in the factory industry "FRIGOGLASS S.A." in K.Achaia of the Prefecture of Achaia, will not be discussed due to a workload of the relevant Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity Mrs.Achtsioglou. The second question by No 1767-10-2016 of the Independent MEP, Mr. Theocharis Theocharis, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the New Karval fertiliser factory in Kavala, will not be discussed due to a workload of the relevant Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity Mr.Achtsioglou.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u12	Madam President, may I have the floor to say a few things about the question?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u13	Mr Kattotis, you have the floor. Be very brief, because this procedure is not provided for.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u14	Madam President, it is not anticipated, but it is common. Of course, here there is a practice of cancelling many questions and we have often consulted ministers. However, we are here today to protest against the cancellations of many of Mrs Ahtsoglou's questions on her own responsibility. You know, we're hierarchizing some questions and bringing them here. There are too many problems with redundancies, with unpaid work, with widespread illegality, with the immunity of employers, the responsibilities of Mrs Ahtsoglou. The questions are important, which should be put to the vote. Unfortunately, 95% with 98% of the questions are postponed under the responsibility of the Minister. We have here a list of questions, Madam President, where five questions have been postponed by Mrs Ahtsioglou since 8 June, in other words within 14 days. We do not know what it is worth hiding if it has nothing to say if the government does not want to take a position on serious questions of workers. We are here to denounce this practice and invite the workers to draw conclusions. Because ATHENS LEDRA workers, for example, or water-growing workers in Sitia, are waiting for answers from the relevant Minister of Labour. However, it does not come on several occasions about these two questions, for example, as well as Mr Karathasopoulos's question, which has been postponed today, for 'FRIGOGLASS', which has been postponed three times to date. That is why we are here to protest and to denounce this practice that many ministers, particularly the Minister for Labour, have carried out.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u15	However, Mrs Ahtsoglou is considered to have a workload. In any case, however, there will be an appeal to answer these questions as well. I mean, it's not a pretext to invoke a workload.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u16	As far as I know, Madam President, the new Rules do not justify the workload.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u17	Yes, sir. I will continue with the other questions that will not be discussed, so that the Minister for Rural Development too can conclude with the second question. It is the second question under number 1034/16-6/2017 of the New Democracy MP, Photinis Arabatzis, on the subject of "Problems and Perspectives of the Buffalo food industry". Mrs. Arabaji, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, Serres County from which I come, may be proud among others, because on the banks of the famous Lake Kerkinis is the overwhelming majority of a very promising potential of Greek livestock farming, buffalo farming. It is a sector with truly remarkable potential, as the products produced in meat and milk are of high quality and, of course, nutritional value and enjoy - and this is the important - high demand both on the domestic market and on the foreign markets and at very high prices. Nevertheless, the recorded contribution of buffalo farming to the country's livestock GDP is very low. In fact, after a long declining course of impairment of livestock, it has just begun cowardly in 2000 - the return of farmers to this dynamic livestock farming. With the support of the Greek state at that time, a remarkable effort has been made. I mention the necessary introduction and maintenance of genealogical trees and buffalo registers and the registration of the population of all Greek buffaloes in the genealogical book kept at the Centre for Genetic Improvement and, of course, the decision of March 2012 that incorporated the buffalo into the programme for the conservation and protection of indigenous breeds. The above measures were necessary, as you can see, both in order to help the natural genetic improvement of this traditional livestock crop, which must also be developed but also in order to maintain its traditional character and, of course, to guarantee the comparative advantage of the products of the Greek buffalo. They were measures that reversed the downward course of the industry until then, which came to count in the 2015 census of fourteen thousand animals throughout the territory, of which three thousand in Lake Kerkin. I would like to mention attributes that in 2001 the sale of buffalo meat was only a hundred pounds a year, and today it varies to fifty-five to sixty tons at a selling price of EUR 15 pounds. A prerequisite, as you certainly understand, Minister, for the development of the cost-benefit sector is the payment of these aids. Unfortunately, you are also showing a delay on this issue, as only on 7 June, six months later, the relevant CSR was signed for the payment of the relevant programmes in previous years. At the same time, of course, it is delaying the evaluation of the application for support for 'genetic Resources in Animal Health' of the new Agricultural Development Programme 2014-2020, jeopardising all the work that has been done on the genetic improvement of these animals and, of course, the payment of these aids over the last fifteen years. So I ask, Minister: Of the 130 million that you have made by a recent joint ministerial decision, what are the agro-environmentals of the buffalo? When are you planning to complete the payment of all the commitments made and when will the applications for measure 10.2.1 be assessed ‘Geographical Resources for Animal Health’ and when will the aid in question be paid? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u19	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u20	I'll agree with you on the industry's dynamics. She needs support. We, for our part, already through the action of the Agricultural Development Programme 2014-2020 ‘Growth Resources for Animal Health’, provide for financial support to promote breeding activities of pure agricultural breed animals, such as buffalo farming, for the conservation, promotion and exploitation of these breeds. The parties concerned are therefore invited to submit a application file for inclusion in the activities of the action at the competent Geographical Improvement Centres of Animals. By 15-6-2017, the first four applications of candidates from other regions had been submitted to the Office of the Ministry of Rural Development, which will be examined in order to convene the committee responsible, in order to carry out the final evaluation of the proposals. We're already at the beginning. We are also waiting for the Buddhists of Kerkin because, as I have said, we definitely want to strengthen the protection of these native tribes. I would say that as far as indigenous tribes are concerned, they have a primary role. Now with regard to the payments of the committed commitments of the 2007-2013 Rural Development Programme, they are at the last stage of completing the work of the correctness of the data after completion of the necessary corrective movements, which concern firstly the update of the areas of pasture and, secondly, the applicable penalties per breed in the case of producers with more than one breed in the same animal category. In the next few years, payments will gradually begin for 2013 and 2014 - they are additional payments - but also for 2015 and 2016, with a view to the end of 2017 to the closure of this whole process, which has been stumbling us for years. I think next Saturday there's a buffalo conference. I want to apologise, because I cannot be present on account of certain obligations. But from the Step of the House, after the conference, in particular the Buffalo-Term Committee, I call on the Ministry to discuss and enable what is envisaged in this action, namely the Rural Development Programme, not just to integrate but to strengthen this sector a little more.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u21	Mrs. Arabaji has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u22	Minister, I will insist on the 10.2.1 programme for the conservation of genetic resources in agriculture. You said yourself how important it is. However, nineteen months now, that is, from 31-10-2015, you know that you have not made any progress in the integration, seducing, Minister, a job that is absolutely necessary, in order to increase production and reduce production costs of a very expensive crop and to increase the competitiveness of the industry. I would remind you - and I said it in my protology - that applications have not been evaluated, and most of all they have been financed. I will insist on the issue of genetic improvement, Mr Minister, because it is directly commensurate with performance, with the revenue that buffalo farmers can receive from this livestock. Buffalo farmers are forced to sacrifice part of the yield that is dairy, mothers ’ milk, in order to feed small buffaloes so that they can easily recover meat. Why? They have not improved geneticly, of course, traditionally with the support of research and science, with the excellent work that the Centre for Genetic Improvement can and will do, so that a large part of milk production is sacrificed, which, as you can see, could give added value and, of course, could lead to an increase in the revenues of these buffalo-tropers from the payment of easy-sales products, such as yoghurt, milk and, of course, ice cream. The second major problem facing the industry, Mr Minister, and you have said this abundantly, is, of course, grassland and grassland, since the specificity of breeding in foothill and coastal areas creates a limited scope in relation to the other breeding areas, which, of course, is also the differential advantage of this breeding. At the same time, the involvement of a number of services, Mr Minister, and you must look at this very carefully - such as management bodies, region, Ministry of Rural Development, Ministry of the Environment, Forestry, the blurred property regime and special environmental conditions complicate the situation. Although, Minister, in 2014, there was a legislative framework for grazing land, where priority was given to breeders of indigenous tribes and buffalo-tropers, as you can see, this huge delay in the adoption of the final grazing plans keeps this sector hostage, among other things. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Madam President, I will need one more minute with your tolerance. Of course, apart from the structural problems, we must not forget, Minister, and you have not referred to yourself, I will wait for your dentistry - the overall development framework of a sleeping giant of Greek livestock, such as buffalo farming. Because the Rural Development Programme has a number of financial instruments that can fund the farms of these Buffalo-tropers, modernise their installations, milking machines, vertical product management, certification, processing, marketing and add value to products. Nevertheless, Minister, all these actions expect funding from the relevant calls of the Rural Development Programme, which remain in drawers. To say about the programme of producer groups and organisations and the programme for the improvement plans, which is still before the public. Let us say about the processing and standardization programme, the first phase of which was only in March. You realise how important it is for these programmes to run for this sector, as, of course, to take all steps to finance the dossier in order to make this product a designation of origin or a PGI. Of course there must be strategic planning aimed at, Minister, the policy to promote buffalo meat and milk both on the domestic market and in countries of the European Union and in third countries. I would remind you that there is Regulation 1144/2014, which opened on 12 January 2017, was closed on 20 April 2017. The Italians who are, as you know, our competitors in this sector have taken advantage of it. I'm asking what we've done. I conclude, Madam President, by asking: Do you intend to complete the grazing plans directly related to buffalo farming at last? What specific initiatives will you take at a certain time for the sector’s development prospects through the Rural Development Programme? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, too. Mr. Apostleus has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, in a limited period of replying to a timely question, you realise that I cannot answer a parliamentary control over the entire activity of the Ministry. But I am staying in buffalo, because I told you that we are at a time when the actions and measures of the Ministry of Rural Development are unfolding. So let's wait for the buffalo farmers. We're really going to have contact with them to table their own proposals. The problems, however, are not just those and what you have said are related to pastures, to the management of these lands and to property. There are too many problems. What I want to say to you is this: with Law No.4351/2015, the one with whom we tried - and we are trying - to take advantage of all the areas that we are grazing in our country, our objective was double, firstly, to cover the eligibility that the livestock sector needs to obtain, and secondly, to make use of the sprouting and grassing capacity that these areas have. So we have come to a draft law, and from that in an opinion proposal, and now is the time when we draw up the management plans. I tell you that for a month now, we have been proposing a joint ministerial decision setting out the content specifications with all the necessary details in a management plan. So this should and should be signed by the Deputy Minister for the Environment and Energy, because these powers do not belong to us, they belong to the Ministry of the Environment and Energy. That's one of the paradoxes we inherited. But you must also agree that it is us who fought within the European Union, the Councils of Ministers and we have succeeded in the proposal for the mid-term review coming in September 2017, to include the woody and dense areas as well. So it's all inside. This means that the proposal is now being adopted after the efforts. That just means that 8.5 million to 9 million acres of these lands can be included in selectivity, which means that Kerkin is also being pressed - and we know that in regional unity there was a problem - it will breathe and all, I would say, these outdated areas will now be attributed to buffalo farming. So that's the only way to solve the problems. Because, indeed, there is a problem with ownership with management, you know it, and you know it, and we know that ministries are interrelated, which make things very difficult. I am telling you that the definition of uses and activities in all the regions of NATURA 2000 is now expected, because this region is also part of this ecological area. It is a project which, as part of the operational infrastructure, transport, the environment and sustainable development programme, we expect to be given. I can't tell you anything more, because it's something that burns us. As far as ownership is concerned, and I would say more of the use, when it is up to a hundred acres, then it is given by the district manager's decision. From a hundred acres and above it is given by the Ministry of Rural Development at a symbolic price for rural activity. I repeat, therefore, that for us in particular, the area of indigenous debts, which in this case buffalo farming has a primary role, is one of these areas that we want and are maintained for many reasons, but also because there is at the same time a substantial contribution to the production process, namely the product produced, which is one of them, which on the market can have a great entry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u25	Just the legislative framework was ready, Minister, and the pasture was ready. The management plans only had to be made, you know.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u26	All right, Mrs. Arabatzis, you're done now. You spoke more than your time. I have the honour to announce to the House that the Ministers for Culture and Sport, Home, Economic, Administrative Reconstruction, Tourism, the Deputy Minister of Interior and the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sport have tabled a draft law on 21-6-2017: 'Amendments to Law 2725/1999 (A' 121) and other provisions'. The above draft law has been classified by the Government as urgent. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Let me now announce a few requests for Members' permits: MEP I Piraeus Mr. Konstantinos Dousinas asks for permission from a short-day absence abroad from June 30th to July 5th 2017, as it will be absent for personal reasons. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u27	The House therefore approved the requested permission. MP II Thessaloniki Dimitrios Mardas seeks permission from a short-day absence abroad from July 9 to July 11, 2017, as it will be absent for personal reasons. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u28	The House therefore approved the requested permission. MEP Mr Dimitrios Gakis is requesting permission from a short-day absence abroad from 28 June to 4 July 2017, as he will be absent for personal reasons. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u29	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Finally, MP Mr Spyridon Dannelis is requesting permission from a short-day absence abroad for his participation in a meeting of the Group of Socialists and Democrats in the European Parliament from 27 June to 29 June 2017. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u30	Parliament therefore approved the requested authorisation Now we have a few more time-consuming questions which are not discussed and which will be closed with the last question to be debated today. The sixth question under number 1030/15-6/2017, first question by MP 2, Athens of the Independent Greeks, Athanasios Papachristopoulos, to the Minister of Home Affairs, on the subject: "Help at Home", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Home Affairs, Mr. Skourletis, on the grounds of misguided obligations. Also due to the impediment of the Minister of Home Affairs, Mr.Skourletis, the fourth question under number 1031/15-6/2017 is the first time that Parliamentary 2nd Athens of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr.Eleni Zaroulias to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: “The Municipality of Kavala legalises the pseudo-state in tourist exhibition in Constantinople.” The thirteenth question under number 922-1-6-2017, topical question for the second court of Athens of the People's Association - Golden Dawn, Eleni Zaroulia, to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, on the subject: "The World Bank "characterizes" the Aegean in Turkey, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, Ioannis Amanatidis, on the grounds of unsuccessful obligations. So we shall now pass on to the last question that will be discussed today. This is the first question with number 2883/25-1-2017 question of the circle of petitions and questions by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMARKKKKKKKKKEKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKGROKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKIKOKIKOKIKOKIKOKIKOKIKOKIKIKOKIKIKOKIKOKIKIKOKIKIKIKIKOKIKIKIKIKIKOKIKIKIKOKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOGOGOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOGOGOGOGOGOGOGOGOGOGOGOGOGOGOGOGOGOGOGOGOGOGOGOGOGOGOGOGOGOGOGOGOGOGOGOGOGOGOGOGOGOGOGOGOGOGOGOGOGOGOGOGOGOGOGOGOGOGOGOGOGOGOGOGOGOGOGOGOG The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Mrs Theanos Fotio. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for two minutes to develop the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, we have an issue that is important, not in the sense of the number of people involved, because I think it is about the fifty-sixty people throughout Greece, when assessing and recording the relevant services, but because it has been done, after a number of contradictory opinions of the relevant services, an injustice to these people. In particular, if we have people who are paraplegic who are insured in the public, public pensioners, there is a practice, from one point to the next, to use some legal opinions from the welfare services of the municipalities and 50% cut down on a specific allowance paid to the paraplegics. Where is the mistake in the interpretation given? It is simply said by the General Accounting Office of the State, which gave its opinion in 2015, I think. On the basis of this opinion of the General Accountancy Office, you have published an interpretative which has justified the charge of seafood, because they too had the same problem, which was restored after the opinion it had been given. The General Accounting Office says that the allowance paid to pensioners is not an allowance, but a pension attendance, that is to say it is a supplement to the pension awarded by the pension measure and must therefore not be confused with the allowance paid to paraplegics. Following this opinion from the General Accounting Office of the State, which is correct, I believe that we can restore this injustice, which has been brought to my attention. With the multiple legal opinions, there could be no point in finding them. But, after this clear position of the General Accounting Office at the beginning of 2015, I have the document here - I think we can resolve it. We have tabled a regulation for you in the framework of the proposal for a law that we have discussed in the past few days. We have submitted to you a legislative regulation on this matter. What for? Because we have come to the conclusion that if we rely on contradictory interpretations from time to time on this issue and do not go by legislation, we will never solve it. If, therefore, there is this will and we agree that, as for seafarers, this injustice should be restored for parasitics too, we should do so. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u32	Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u33	Mr Kegeroglu, it is indeed a question - let us say - of a legal course, which you are well aware of, because you have been in the position where I am today at the Ministry in previous years. So, you've dealt with it. I would like to say that, as you know, since last July, when you made the relevant reference to me, I have answered - and you are saying it in your question today - that, on the basis of the existing provisions, the benefit of the people you are saying is EUR 771 and is cut by half. And it is cut not by me, as you well know, it has been a decision since 2010. I am presenting in the Minutes the opinion and circular made by the then Ministry of Health and Social Solidarity, the Welfare Directorate - because it was the Welfare to Health - to grant a grievance - fourfold benefit to people who are beneficiaries of the incapacity allowance, i.e. they are already beneficiaries of a benefit, and to whether they will also receive the second allowance in this way. This is precisely where it says that civil servants - beneficiaries of the pre-trial and quadruple allowance should receive this allowance reduced, when they receive the benefit of Law 3408/2005. This is signed by the State Secretary for Health and Social Solidarity, Mr. Fotini Genomes. I put it in the Minutes, as is the leader of your party. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister, Mr Theanos Fotio, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] I, therefore, followed the stray, Mr Kegeroglu, on this issue, because precisely because - if you like - legal disputes, interpretation, multiple interpretations - and I will come back later - is whether the pension attendance means a pension, that is, a pension right, or a benefit. Mrs. Gennamas in this decision considers it an allowance based on the recommendation of her legal counsel, obviously. Later, in the same year, in 2010, the Legal Council of State will give further opinion on this point, namely, it is not only Mrs Gennamas or her legal counsellor, but it is also the Legal Council of State that will give an opinion on this point of view. It's about nine people, not fifty, Mr. Kegeroglu. In other words, it concerns those who have 67% to 80% disability, two hundred thirty-five people and those who have 80% or more, who are fifty-three people. Both are not public pensioners.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u34	Here, Mr Kegeroglu, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, first of all, I have the document here, there is no decision. You're wrong to say there's a decision. Here's the document. There's no decision. Here, this document refers to the view of the Legal Service. That is the point of view of the Legal Service, and that is the decision. There's no decision. Here's the document.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u36	I told you, the Legal Council of the State. You didn't hear that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u37	Yes, that is what you referred to and said that it is a decision by Mrs Gennamas. It is a document which passes the view of the Legal Service, that is, to agree on it. So it doesn't have a sense of decision. So let's go see on the point.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u38	So what is it?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u39	No, I'm talking about the fifty-three. I'm not talking about those who have 67% or more, I'm talking about the fifty-three paraplegic. That's why I told you they were about fifty and not seven hundred. In any case, however, we must see here that there has been a positive opinion in 2015 of the General Accounting Office of the State.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u40	In 2016.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u41	Okay. Or in 2015 or 2016. Here it says ‘In order to establish this post, inter alia, the number of these documents of the General Accounting Office, according to which the incapacity allowance referred to in Article 54, etc, is an attendance of the pension and the condition of financial aid has never been given to him’. This is official now of the General Accounting Office of the State. On the basis of this, a solution was given to the seafoods, which existed as a loose end. You gave it a solution. After this opinion, you have relied on it and given it. For the first time, we have this opinion of the General Accounting Office. He never came out. The equivalent must now also be for the people in this article who are retired and at the same time paraplegic. There are precisely contradictory interpretations throughout the time that led to people asking for money back, because the services normally paid the money to a point and then started asking for it back. Now there is no such possibility of these people turning the money back. If the service is not covered by what the General Accounting Office and the Citizens' Counsel, I think we need to make a legislative arrangement so that we can give a definitive solution to this issue. That is the request, and it concerns the 50 people. I think it is worth the effort to resolve this issue for these fifty people - the number is small - not because it is little money, but because it is indeed an injustice that has been created, it has been caused by the contradictory opinions of the services. I say again that many municipalities' welfare services continued to pay it until recently. With a decision by a service to ask for backward amounts already paid, there has been a general disruption that we need to regulate. That's the point. I believe that the regulation we have proposed or some other regulation that your colleagues and services will be working on is something that can be a step in this direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u42	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u43	Mr Kegeroglu, in order not to question what we say on the number for the beneficiaries, I am presenting in the Minutes the recent answers I have about the number of people to whom this regulation refers. Like I told you, they're about ninety people. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister, Mr Theanos Fotio, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] But that is not the problem, that is, whether it is fifty or nine hundred. If it is fair to take this allowance further and take it as a pension monitor and not as a second allowance, there is indeed a conflict. As you know, the General Accounting Office of the State is not a authority that can decide on such legal matters, because then we also have problems with how they are attributed or not paid the benefits from the Vice-Presidents, etc. I mean, it's a story without end. I would like to note here, Mr Kegeroglu, that the seafarers did not receive any benefits. There was a great injustice here. Now, on this opinion from the General Accounting Office of the State - which I told you that this is not his job - with which an injustice has been restored for seafarers who have received nothing, there is a story that actually has a legal complexity that evades my responsibilities, as it used to be yours, I imagine. That's why you left this whole story like this. I, therefore, had no other way out, and after the decision of the Plenary Assembly of the State Council - I am tabling the relevant document here - in 2010, which is not in the direction of the allowance given to seafarers. [[At this point the Deputy Secretary, Mrs Theanos Fotio, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] I referred the question to the Legal Adviser of the State of the Ministry of Labour, which will also make a recommendation to the Plenary Assembly of the State Council in order to return to this matter. Because, as you know - and I think I do not have to say much now - the story has arisen from paragraph 5 of Article 54 of the Code of Civil and Military Staff who have suffered a broken quadruple, etc. and where allowance is granted at 40% of the single basic salary of Captain. From there on, another paragraph 11 came in, where the captain's allowance - because we are talking about it so long - has been extended to all faces, blind, paraplegic, quadruple, who have a 15-year full pension service with an disability rate of 67% and upwards and who are not passionate in the service, while the captain was! That doesn't matter. So on the basis of both the document sent by the Ministry of Health, and signed by Mrs Gennamata and the opinion of the Legal Council of State, because otherwise, as you know, we have great problems signing or not signed up to what has happened to them. And now I am obliged to refer this back to the Legal Council of the State to see what really happens. However, we are watching this with great interest and, as I have said, we do not care if they are fifty or ninety people, because we are precisely interested in restoring order. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u44	Can I make a clarification, Madam President?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u45	Leave now, Mr. Kegeroglu. You can tell her privately.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u46	It's a regular tactic. Come out, if you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u47	It's not the number thing. In fact, a thousand three hundred have seen that it is not a significant number ahead of eighty - six or sixty - thousand people who receive pre-school allowances. He's too young. Just because there are conflicting legal opinions, we should agree to make legislation.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u48	If we think that legislation solves it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u49	I do not think that with the opinions of the legal advisers, as it has not come out of the way for seven years now, it will come from now on. Let's see if it's fair, let's do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u50	Okay. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minutes of Tuesday 25 April 2017 have been distributed and the House is asking whether they have been ratified.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u51	The minutes of Tuesday 25 April 2017 were therefore validated. We have completed reading the topical and urgent questions which will not be discussed, and this is compatible with the document of the General Secretariat of the Government since 21 June. That concludes the debate on topical and urgent questions. Ladies and gentlemen, we are interrupting our meeting for a while. We will come back at 12 noon on the subject of this House's work: legislative work, in accordance with the specific agenda distributed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u52	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. We enter the SPECIFIC FACILITY ORGANIZATION Parliament's decisions: 'To amend the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament - Part Parliamentary (Law 106/A'/24.6.1987) and Part II (Law 51/A'/10.4.1997), as applicable'. I propose that a rapporteur from each party be given the floor for ten minutes, and if a Member wishes to speak, take the floor for five minutes. He asks whether he agrees with this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u53	The House therefore agreed. The rapporteur for the majority, Mr Dritsa, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u54	Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal by the President of Parliament to amend the Rules of Procedure refers to twenty-four articles in Part I and in an article in Part II. The proposed amendments to the Rules of Procedure, which I recommend on behalf of SYRIZA to the House in this House, make up a set of mature and necessary changes and improvements. That is why I hope that this time, too, they will receive a broad consensus and acceptance from all the wings of this House. After all, under the responsibility of the President and the Secretary-General, there has been sufficient dialogue and consultation in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure with the participation of all its members and the valuable and valid assistance of the Scientific Service, particularly the Chairman of the Scientific Council, Professor Constantine Mavria, as well as the valuable assistance of the experienced officials of the Parliament's hierarchy. On this occasion I have to point out and recognise once again that both the Scientific Service and Parliamentary Staff are supportive pillars that are irreplaceable to the work produced. They deserve recognition and congratulations. The main aim of these proposed changes and improvements is to strengthen Parliament. The majority of the new regulations responded to the commonly required rationalisation in order to adapt these provisions to the new data that has emerged in recent years. I shall then specify the proposals referred to in Article. In Part One of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, the Parliamentary Assembly, Articles 1 to 4 form a unity with the election of Vice-Presidents, the election of the President of the Parliament by roll-call vote, the election of the other members of the Bureau by roll-call vote and the transitional arrangement for the election of the Vice-Presidents referred to in Rule 4. These articles provide for the possibility of electing Vice-Presidents and Parliamentary Groups, for which the previous Rules did not provide. So they can elect in this House Vice President and the Independent Greeks and the Centro Association. These changes are framed by uniform arrangements for individual issues, with provisions that are compatible with possible changes in the composition of the parliamentary body in the future. These arrangements include provisions for Quaestors and Secretaries. An excellent innovation is introduced into Articles 2 and 3 by providing for the election of the President of Parliament, but also of Vice-Presidents, Quaestors and Secretaries, by roll-call vote instead of the current secret ballot procedure. In my opinion, this innovative regulation upgrades and strengthens the authority of the Members' opinion and invites every Member of Parliament to take personal responsibility, with absolute publicity. The election of the President shall continue to require an absolute majority of the Vice-Presidents, Quaestors and Secretaries as provided for in Article 67 of the Constitution and majority voting. Finally, Article 4, as I said, provides for a transitional arrangement for direct election of Vice-Presidents from the sixth and seventh to a power of Parliamentary Group. I continue in Rule 5: Responsibility of the Conference of Presidents for Rule 14 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. A paragraph is added to this which further specifys the competence of the Conference of Presidents with regard to committees of Parliament responsible under law for hearing persons. Articles 6, 7 and 17 also form a unity with the information provided by the State's Committee on Budgetary Control and the General Balance sheet and control of the implementation of the State's budget by the Court of Auditors, with the information of the Standing Committees by the Court of Auditors and with the procedure for examining the State's statement of accounts and general balance sheet. These three articles update the Court of Auditors' participation in the parliamentary work. I do not have the time to go into more detail, but the explanatory statement and the text of the law are clear. I would like to point out that I consider these improvements to be extremely important. They upgrade parliamentary work. The relationship between Parliament and the Court of Auditors, which is getting closer, seems to me to be of benefit to the quality of the work produced. Rule 8: Enlargement of the participation of social actors in the legislative function of the House. The opportunity to be heard by bodies in drafting bills by the Standing Committees shall be increased to 10. It's a familiar matter. In recent periods, several dozen are now proposed, I would say, participants. They shall be increased to 10, and in the case of joint meetings of two or more of the Joint Committees, 10 for each Standing Committee. Here I must point out that experience - I think we will all agree - has shown that this extended possibility can again be a restrictive one, but, in order to work out the drafting of legislation, it is indeed right from a position of principle to place a restriction on it. In Article 9, "Place of Permanent Special Committees" on the basis of the new regulation, not only the Standing Committee on Institutions and Transparency, but also the Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics are recommended at the beginning of each parliamentary term and operate throughout the term. The other committees referred to in paragraph 1 of Rule 43A of the Rules of Procedure shall be recommended, as currently in force, at the beginning of each regular session. At the same time, the last subparagraph of Article 43a(1) shall be deleted because it is now inapplicable. Then, Articles 10 and 14 and these are relevant, i.e. the number and order of speakers in the debate of bills and drafts of laws and the right to speak former prime ministers and former Presidents of the Parliament. These two articles streamline the right to speak of the Presidents-in-Offices of Parliament. The fairest representation of Parliamentary Groups is achieved in discussing bills and draft laws and for the sake of better organisation of the discussion process, it is proposed that the calls by the former Prime Ministers and the former Presidents of the Parliament be limited to the time available to the alternate representatives of the Parliamentary Groups for their prototypes. In Article 11 "How to speak in the Committees" stands or sits is a simple regulation that is compatible with logic, but also with humanism for the needs of each speaker, depending on the various problems it may encounter. With regard to Rule 12, the correction of votes and the clarification of votes is a new very important and innovative article entitled 'Clarification of votes and clarification of votes'. It is important innovation in the light of modern data and developments, in particular, in the prospect of generalising and permanentising votes in an electronic way. It is clarified that the provisions of this new Article apply only to cases of roll-call vote, conducted by an oral statement. The successful implementation of this regulation is subject to proof of a high sense of responsibility on the part of Members, and it should be noted that the explanatory statement of the regulation is not the possibility of individual flexibility to the Members, but rather of guaranteeing and guaranteeing the validity of the result of each vote, namely the immunisation and non-respect of the validity of the actual, authentic will of each of the Members of Parliament and of the actual record of the minority. I hope that the implementation of this provision will justify its reasoning, I must further point out that the careful reading of this article shows the provision of a series of safeguards which provide for its authentic and creative application. With Article 13 in conjunction with Article 21 ‘Procedure for the prosecuting of Members, the submission of procedural documents in a vacant copy’, the originals of the case-file for the prosecution of Members to Parliament remain in the Ministry of Justice and the documents and documents sent and certified copies, numbered by serial number and registered in a state with a sealed file, shall be sent by the Ministry of Justice to Parliament. This ensures that all these procedures are transparent and reliable. Article 15 ‘Trade of constitutionality’ establishes for the first time the right to express objections to constitutionality and amendments until the start of the vote. The President of the Parliament, with Article 15(2), shall set out the opening of the debate on the proposal or proposals referred to in the preceding paragraph. Article 16 ‘Labour Laws and Proposals’ remain the recent regulations, which have been selected, which are well known. Rule 110 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure is reshaped, in particular by abolishing any provisions which have been disused. Article 18: Questions with request for documents. Here is a regulation that is compatible with the reality of it, for requests for documents to be lodged. Article 19 then refers to the Minister's coma in the process of discussing topical questions. It is a burning issue, which at some point needs to find the right solution, so that the whole - if possible - of the timely questions tabled are discussed in the timely questioning process, which we all know is not the case. So this article determines what it means, what can be the reasons for the Minister's coma? Article 20: Temporary procedure for discussing a timely question addressed to the Prime Minister. Times are being remodeled here, because in fact, the current provisions are very restrictive. Article 22 refers to the recruitment of scientific staff, the Scientific Council of the Parliament, under a fixed-term private law contract, a need arising from the work of the Scientific Council of the Parliament. Paragraph 11 is added to Rule 162 of the Rules of Procedure. The President of Parliament is authorised, on a recommendation - and not just an opinion - by the Chairman of the Scientific Council of Parliament, and with a minimum qualification of those who will be engaged in postgraduate studies, with a three-year fixed-term contract, renewable once again by a decision of the President of the Parliament and again on a recommendation from the Chairman of the Scientific Council of Parliament. Article 23 is also a new article. It's simple. It simply considers electronic documents as documents, but it is very important. It opens the way for the Parliament of the twentieth century, for the new era of the Parliament, for the electronic handling of a document. It's innovative, very important. It is a provision for the generalisation of the digital technology of Parliament's operation. And here, because we are all aware that we are before the gates, after a very great effort, which has been made, are also worth congratulating the President and the Secretary-General and the Special Secretary-General, but also at the responsible address and to all those who have prepared this new era of the Greek Parliament. Finally, Article 24 is also new. Paragraph 10 of the Rules of Procedure shall be added to Rule 11 of the Rules of Procedure, where applicable pursuant to Article 39(7)(b) of Law 3566/2007 as applicable. It is about informing the House of evidence of secrets from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which exceeds 25 000, with a responsibility for information, which is entrusted exclusively to the President of the Parliament. Another article - and now this ends the articles in Part II of the Rules of Procedure - is Article 25 of the Rules of Procedure by which, in the second subparagraph of paragraph 3 of Rule 149 of Part II of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament as it stands, the words 'by an honorary judicial officer' shall be replaced by 'by a judicial officer who is in active or honorary' so that this position, relating to the Committee on Appeals for Public Works and Public Procurement, can really be covered. The last article of the proposals, number 26, relates to the entry into force and the order for publication in the Official Journal of the Government. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that these changes are precisely necessary, important and innovative in many respects. There may be much more to be done for the Rules of Procedure of the House, but it always takes maturation to ensure that these changes ensure the maximum possible consensus so that they can withstand time and function effectively and creatively. With these considerations, I call on the House and all their parties to reach a broad consensus in order to vote on these articles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u55	The rapporteur, Mr Ioannis Tragakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u56	Ladies and gentlemen, the Greek Parliament is the leading representative institution of our Republic. The parliamentary procedure must ensure and facilitate the emergence and promotion of good political and ideological confrontation. The functioning of the House is not enough to be institutional, legal and ratification. It must be creative as well. The Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, as laid down in the Constitution, especially as regards its parliamentary part, ensure that it operates freely and democratically. Some of the findings we can make in the Rules of Procedure are that, when compared to the Rules of Procedure of other Parliaments, it can be seen as a very detailed text and with a high degree of complexity. In my earlier suggestion, as regards changing the Parliament's Rules of Procedure in Part I, I stated that the change must be just one. A single article has to be added: the Rules of Procedure should apply only from the Bureau and from fellow Members. This article alone would be enough to complete a procedure for changing the Rules of Procedure with regard to the Parliamentary Party, because we have all seen what violations of the Rules of Procedure are done by all of us. The Rules of Procedure are a text that is strict but also alive, adapting to everyday use and political practice. For this very reason, and even though it has the force of formal law, it is made up in every revision of it on the grounds that its arrangements are not permanent, such as those of the Constitution, but have the flexibility and the possibility, depending on the prevailing circumstances, to shape its character, sometimes as more liquid and sometimes more solid in terms of its interpretation. The Rules of Procedure of Parliament need to be modernised, we need to improve, we need to create those conditions so that we have a regulation that has no asterisks. The last review we had made was five years ago. So new conditions have been created. There are a number of amendments to the Rules of Procedure. There's got to be some sort of rationalization. It's done in certain arrangements. And it must be possible to make the functioning of the House effective, which is a reliance on the guardianship of the government. I think that our main concern should be to have a regulation that has been dismantled from the guardianship of the government in question. Badly many of us refer to the selfishness of the House. There is no selflessness of the House. There is autonomy of the House. And as our respected professor, Mr. Mavrias, has said, but he has written it in writing, the House is the institution that produces laws, so it has guaranteed autonomy. As you know, on 17-1-2017, when we had reviewed Part II, I had made some proposals and I am glad that the President of Parliament accepted these proposals. I think they'll help. My first proposal was for the election of the President of Parliament. As you know, the election of the President of the Republic, Parliament's budgets, Parliament's confidence, the motion of censure shall be made by roll-call vote. On 17 January I proposed the same thing for the election of the President of Parliament. It was accepted by the President and incorporated. I also proposed that the Ethics Committee, which was for each session, should be set up for the whole period. It makes sense, for too many times the Ethics Committee has cases relating to a previous session. I have also proposed, if there is a case-file for a member of the Ethics Committee, that it should be excluded and replaced. All this has been accepted and I thank the President for accepting it. I am going to insist on the next one, Mr President. Some committees, for example the Bureau of the Internal Affairs Committees, such as the Library and the economy of the House, have always been intergroup. In other words, they participated, one of the party's Quaestors who govern and one of the party of their respective Civilian Opposition. For the first time since 2015, this is not the case. I repeat it as a proposal. One point I raised again on 17-1-2017, which was accepted was the issue of the unconstitutionality of the amendments. In addition to examining unconstitutionality with regard to the amendments, however, I also added the legislative improvements. Because we all have experience of getting better legislation. I would like to say in passing that no legislative improvements are planned anywhere. The Rules of Procedure refer to legislative improvements, but what are they referred to as legislative improvements? They are syntax or change corrections in terms of expression. It has recently come here - and we have all been accepted not only now, but also before, legislative improvements - a legal improvement of twenty-seven pages, when the bill itself was two pages and it was even ratification. So you realise that my proposal is this and I repeat it once again: apart from considering the unconstitutionality of the amendments, the legislative improvements also need to be considered. Another proposal to which I will once again stress, Mr President, and then I have put it, ladies and gentlemen, is the subject of the many ministerial decisions and circulars provided for by the laws. There is a law, which provided for sixty-seven ministerial decisions and circulars and which have not yet been adopted, so the law does not apply. Do you realize what an empty one is being created? Now, I will go a little further into the individual, which concerns corrections and additions, which we are now doing with regard to our Rules of Procedure. The first important thing is an increase in the number of Vice-Presidents. I am against it, as is my party. What's the point? The composition of the Conference of Presidents is altered. What is Parliament's top instrument? The Conference of Presidents. Consider that, in the current composition of the Conference of Presidents, the decisions are taken by double vote of the President, because there is a tie. And if there were no - here to allow me to stress - the good will of the Officerial Representation, but also of other parties in the opposition, no decisions could be made at the Conference of Presidents. One reason why is that we would never have secured 4/5 of the majority of the Conference of Presidents to elect independent authorities. All constitutionally guaranteed independent principles have been made with the consent of Officer Representation for the first time, when we - I stress it - since 2004 - please hold it! - we had tried, by 2014, to make changes to some constitutionally guaranteed independent authorities and we had never been able to secure the 4/5. That is why we do not want to increase the number of Vice-Presidents. For we will have twelve parties in this House and twelve Vice-Presidents, for example. As you can see, a majority will never be possible with regard to the Conference of Presidents. As far as the roll-call vote is concerned, I have said so before and it is in Article 2. With regard to Rule 3, a roll-call vote will be taken again for the other members of the Bureau. As regards Article 4, it is understood that Article 4 follows Article 1. Rule 5 refers to the specialisation of competence of the Conference of Presidents. Indeed, this specialisation has entered the insurance system - and that is why it has been accepted by us - without prejudice to the explicit rules of the Rules of Procedure of the House. Why? Because the competence of the committee and where it will be referred falls exclusively within the competence of the President in this article. However, this issue is solved by the insurance policy. For Article 6, on the information of the State Audit and General Balance Sheet and the Court of Auditors' Report, it is known that this is provided for by the Constitution, by Article 98(1) (e) of the Constitution. So there's something that the Constitution provides for. So is Article 7, which provides that these Court of Auditors reports may also be referred to the relevant committees. It makes sense and must be done. Article 8 provides for the widening of the participation of social actors in hearings. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] I will take some time, Mr President, because I shall refer to the articles. Let's see what's happening. Our Rules of Procedure have shown that we can call on six bodies and have called for twenty-seven in violation of the Rules of Procedure, of course. What was the result? The result was when the committee meeting ended last night at 20.00 p.m., 21.00, 22.00 p.m. the time for the report on which bodies will be invited, the bodies to be called on the night of the day before telling them to come the next morning. Everyone was protesting and shouting 'you're calling us at the last minute'. And then they were tormented, because when they came to Parliament, they were given the word for two, three minutes. So we were told "it was a mockery, why are you bringing us?" In fact, 'up to 10 bodies' is a satisfactory figure. But since you are all aware that the bills that come are not the bills of a ministry, but most of them are bills - even because of special circumstances - if we put ten bodies for each committee, you realise that if we have four ministries, we could reach a number of forty bodies, which are impossible to respond to in plenary. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] If you close the bell, I will continue, Mr. President. Our proposal is that the number should be up to 20, regardless of how much the co-responsible ministries will be. As far as the term of office of the permanent special committees and the Ethics Committee is concerned, I have spoken. I would also like to make a comment, Mr President. There is the Rules of Conduct for Members. I repeat, since it is very likely that many Members will not know it, that the Rules of Procedure of Members are in place and should be incorporated into the first part of the Rules of Procedure. It's imperative. With regard to the series of speakers in the bills and draft laws, I would like to say that it is right. It is only right that they should have taken part in the elections. Because the phenomenon has emerged in a previous House, that a parliamentary group has been set up, because it was more than ten, and the President of this parliamentary group has all the advantages that former Prime Ministers and former Presidents of Parliament and former presidents of parties who have taken part in elections. So you realise that that is why this correction is correct. Now, with regard to how we speak, I would like to say that it depends on which Chamber we are sitting in. If he is in the Senate or in the Hall "228", it is good for anyone who wishes to speak, because speaking standing gives more authority to what he has to say. I do so on many occasions in the committees on my own requesting permission from the Bureau, of course, because I think that speaking upright gives more weight to what you have to say. That's right, too. Let me now turn to 'vote correction' and 'definition of voting'. First of all, I have not yet understood despite the fact that I requested the advice of the Professor. I think there are provisions in the Rules of Procedure prohibiting the correction of votes, the explanation of vote. We are talking about roll-call votes. In many respects, the Rules of Procedure state that there is no justification for voting. You're just voting. How now in a roll-call vote... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, just a little more time, please. I won't talk about the articles anymore. So I get the time and the articles.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u57	I gave you three minutes, Mr. Tragakis. How many more minutes do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u58	Another five, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u59	Okay. Please continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u60	I take the time of the articles. This is a special procedure. So in the roll-call vote there is no question. Let us now go to the electronic voting method. Based on my experience, as many times as we have implemented it and tried to run tests here for the electronic system, things didn't work out well. Admittedly, they made others instead of others. However, new and latest tests of the programme have been carried out. For this House - and this is what Rule 23 refers to, and I am also given the opportunity, Mr Dritsa, to say and thank the Special Secretary and the President - is a pioneer in the electronic handling of documents. Consider that what we are doing now on electronic document handling has not been done in the Ministries. They take it from us now as a booze so they can do it in the various ministries. By insisting on correcting votes in electronic way, I would like to say that this also applies to other parliaments and to the European Parliament. I will not remind you of the last album held in the French National Assembly, which has changed the result on very important issues. So here we are opposed to this issue. How would we agree? This could be done if Parliament's electronic system went to another level. And I think that since December, he can get through to another level. So when Parliament's electronic system goes to another level, where Members are applying they have a specific position. That is to say, every Member of Parliament is sitting in a particular position. So it can be seen from the electronic chart what each Member of Parliament voted for. And if he has made a mistake in 'yes', 'no', in yellow, green and white buttons, he can correct it. But if that is not the case, we cannot accept it and we are against it. With regard to parliamentary immunity, I will say a couple of words. Parliament's services have been wrongly charged with handling procedural documents. It has never been done by the House of Commons. Documents shall always be circulated by the persons involved in such judgments. That is why it is very right that we do not get the original documents, but that we get a number of copies that we will be aware of and then return them. Because this phenomenon has emerged too many times. As far as the right to speak former Prime Ministers and former Presidents of Parliament is concerned, we agree. On the issue of unconstitutionalism, I also said that legislative improvements should be added. We say yes to the bills and suggestions of an urgent nature. We are basically putting a class in what we have been implementing in practice. With regard to the procedure for examining the State's balance sheet and general balance sheet, we say yes to the Court's report. For questions on application for documents, we say yes. We specialize a little in the spirit of the ministers. I know that today was scheduled for discussion - hold the number! - Twenty-three topical questions. Do you know how many have been discussed? Three! So you realise that there is a huge issue here. We sort of specialize here, but it's not enough. I'm telling you, it's not enough. I will testify to my experience when I presided over and I would like to ask the President-in-Office to implement it. When there is a timely question from a Member and let the Minister be absent, we should give the Member the right for two minutes to develop his timely question. You will see that next time all the ministers will be coming, because the Members' positions as they stand will be unanswered. I will insist on this proposal and will manage to be accepted so that we do not have this phenomenon.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u61	Mr. Tragaki, I'm sorry to interrupt you, but that's what's happening in practice.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u62	Are you already applying it?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u63	How's it going?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u64	Yeah, in practice. When he asks for the floor, we give him the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u65	If it can be done, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u66	If he asks for the floor, yes, we give him.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u67	Mr Tragakis is right to protest because the Minister is absent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u68	It doesn't matter. But if you say so, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u69	You say to read the question. We give the floor to the Member when he is asked, of course, and he explains what his question was. That is what is happening in practice.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u70	Is he developing his question or is he explaining?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u71	What did you say?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u72	If he develops his question, we're fine. If you do, you will, Mr President. I hardly urge you to do that. Well, let's move a little further on the Scientific Council. I would like to say here that we have complete confidence in the Scientific Council of Parliament. It is also known that the Scientific Council of the Parliament, in addition to carrying out a very important role through its President, has several gaps, because some leave with pensions and are not supplemented. It makes sense to have needs. However, I would say at this stage that we do not insist on this. My party is opposed to this Article 22. In Article 23 we have the electronic form of documents. Court doesn't say anything. I have something to say on this matter of the judiciary, the active or honorary judiciary, and I want to answer that. Since there is a notice on the principle of preliminary rulings - this has been done - there have been two, three applications. I believe that this is the case because, with this change, everyone was honorary and not active. I do not know whether this is a specific notice. I would therefore like some clarifications on this. I shall now refer to the article added pursuant to Article 39(7) of Law 3566/2007, as formulated by the Law on the amount of EUR 25 000 of the secret funds of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. When I presided over the Committee on Institutions and Transparency, the committee's powers also made it possible to control these funds. I remember, for example, that we had too much control over the funds of NGOs, non-governmental organisations, on certain issues, such as, for example, the funds for the dematerialisation of the mines in Libya or Lebanon, which had been given too much money. And then we had called the chairman of the committee on this three-member committee. So why should they not come to the Committee on Institutions and Transparency and inform an informal body? I understand the floor, but I would say that it will come to the Committee on Institutions and Transparency and not to the informal body of the Presidents, namely the Vice-Presidents of the House. There is no such institution as our own Rules of Procedure. I'm done with this. In conclusion, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that it was a change in the Rules of Procedure in the right direction in most of its parts. The objections we have had in some cases have been expressed. I hope, and I also believe that the next change in the Rules of Procedure which will come with regard to Part I will be more realistic and will be in line with the new conditions that have been created. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, too. The special speaker of the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR Mr Papatheodorou has the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the revision or amendment - because this is not a revision - of the Rules of Procedure is a topical, in our view, procedure for the functioning of Parliament. It is for this procedure to ensure the freedom of opinion of Members. The Members here must be taken as the House. It should therefore also ensure normal procedures in the functioning of the House. If I said before that, the Rules of Procedure are intended to operate in this House, it is precisely because this House cannot be divided. The House cannot be divided, in these procedures provided for by the Rules, into a governmental majority and an opposition. That is why the main feature of a Rules of Procedure of the House is - or should be - that it is addressed to each Member, to each and every Member at the same time. So the question of such a review procedure - and I will agree with the dear Minister, Mr Dritsa - is to identify the provisions and conditions for the 21st century parliament, as you quite rightly said. There is an absolute match here. But what is the 21st century parliament? Let us ask ourselves a fundamental issue, which arises first of all from the methodology chosen by the Bureau of Parliament, not all the Members of Parliament, or, first of all, from the committee, and then, as a Parliament, from all those re-examined or amended provisions of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, so that the corpus, the House's Rules of Procedure, can respond to new needs and be a united whole. We didn't do that. On the other hand, the methodology of salamation, i.e. the group amendment of certain provisions, has been chosen. I am afraid that when we reread the Rules of Procedure after the changes have been completed, this unity will not exist, there will be no target for the 21st century parliament. Today in the House I think it is an opportunity for all Members to speak and speak in relation to what we are discussing. These are top issues which should respond to the major issue that is the structure of procedures within Parliament for also the necessary transparency in the functioning of Parliament. This must be our aim, namely to ensure the proper functioning of Parliament and to serve the parliamentary dialogue with as much transparency as possible, as well as specifically to ensure the transparency of procedures within Parliament. So, starting from my position in the first article on the election of Vice-Presidents, the debate cannot and should not only be to guarantee the greatest possible representativeness of parliamentary groups. It makes sense. But why does that need to be representative? Why do all the parliamentary groups need to be represented in the Bureau? It takes the response between the parliamentary groups and their representatives to the Bureau during the operation of the House, which we tabled as a proposal, but was not accepted. This means that this should be depreciated, at least, and also in the chairmanship of certain parliamentary committees. It is not sturdy that, on the one hand, you ask for the highest possible representation of parliamentary groups and, on the other, for the simple governmental majority to be imprinted on all the committees of this House. And that is a matter of transparency. Let us consider the 21st century parliament. So let us say what it would be like for this House to work more democratically. Why should every committee of Parliament, one of its very many, have the President come only from a government majority? What else does he do outside of coordination? So we come back to the main question. Is the amendment which we are debating today in the context of the government majority or, on the other hand, are we interested in including all Members and all the groups in this House in a uniform format in the Bureau? In this sense, we would not oppose an increase in the number of Vice-Presidents or an increase in the number of parliamentary groups, provided that this was also reflected in the composition of committees. Since the committees continue to operate in the same way as before, the increase in the number of Vice-Presidents does not seem to serve any fundamental change. Therefore, as we were sceptical at first, we remain cautious. The second issue raised is a roll-call vote or a secret ballot. I have really looked at - and here I think we need dialogue, which we have had in committee, but we also need dialogue between Members - to see what the difference is in fact between roll-call and secret ballot. The secret vote - as is done with all the votes in Parliament that are secret and which concern persons other than the President of the Republic - is the vote of each Member, according to his conscience, according to what he wants to vote, without any clear or unambiguous agreement, for example for the Bureau. The roll-call vote is the MEP's vote, but he is a member of the political body to whom he belongs. It is part of the political body, which, for some, can be regarded as necessary or necessary, but on the other hand, the secret ballot is divided from the roll-call vote. We are not in agreement with this change. Because it is supposed that the Bureau - and I will bring you an example, ladies and gentlemen - should, with the proposals of the parties, enjoy the greatest possible support and consent of this House. There were Presidents of the House who were voted by very strong parliamentary majority - unprecedented majorities - and after a few months of their term of office, I think that would not only be possible, but also their colleagues would have disapproved them. So let us allow it by means of a secret vote in the Bureau to speak on the basis of what he thinks is right to vote, without being bound by the vote of his party. In our view, therefore, it should remain the same. Correction of votes and explanation of vote: We said from the outset that correcting votes can only be the subject of a mistake, which means changing immediately afterwards. Any other procedure, which gives a year to measure the result, cannot guarantee either transparency or democratic participation by the Member, in our view. In the 21st century parliament, we will all be voting electronically. How long does it take? How long does it take if we have made a mistake on the button that we pressed, 'yes' or 'no', to press the third button, that of the correction? It takes a few seconds. They need no more, if it is a mistake, because anything else can only be an intervention. As for the intervention, as you can see, we must not allow the House to have a motto of opportunity either by way of friendly resignations or by means of party orders. So as the article has been formulated, it has an originality about the European Union's parliamentary times. We don't find that often. So let us not let it evolve in time until someone decides to correct their vote, that is one hour later, until the result is measured, because it is so. Therefore, under this drafting and wording, we cannot support this article. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] As I have spent time, I will make a point only, specializing in the Scientific Council, but also in the way in which it operates. Are there any needs in the Scientific Council, as in other services of the House? Apparently there are. We therefore proposed that during the debate in the committee these needs should be specifically justified by the chairman of the Scientific Council who, like everyone - I think - enjoys the support and recognition of all the parliamentary groups. On a reasoned request from the Conference of Presidents and by decision of the Conference of Presidents, the President of the Parliament can decide on recruitment. Otherwise, I am very impressed by the fact that the President of Parliament, Mr Voutsis, accepts that there will be such a wording, that he will be recruiting scientific staff for the Scientific Council after the President's opinion or suggestion. What for? A President must not accept that. He must not want to have such a competence, because this competence leaves room for an arbitrary crisis - since no one has asked for it, but he judges it - or decisions which can be called into question. Because we are talking about decisions that can be called into question - and I am closing with this - the House is in a process of change and the House will have to look after them. The Bureau should take care of them because, once it has embodies either a suspicion of the choices or a suspicion of the transparency of procedures, it is Parliament itself and not just the people. We will remain in the process of guaranteeing the greatest democratic representation in the Parliament of all the groups, but also the transparency of procedures in the functioning of the parliamentary work. It is a question of principle for democracy and I think that with these objections, with these proposals that we have made, all the groups can be discussed and placed. We don't care about a party parliament. We are not interested in a parliament of the government majority, not because we are in the opposition, but because that is how one of the main pillars of democracy is guaranteed, which is Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u75	Thank you. The reason is the special speaker of the Golden Dawn, Mr. Poppas, for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u76	I listened carefully to the last speaker, who said twice during his speech that 'we are looking for the representation of all the groups in the Bureau', and at the outset it was closed. So let me ask Mr Papatheodorou: when you say 'all the groups', do you mean the Golden Dawn?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u77	As a candidate, of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u78	Because you said "the question of principle" and if you vote for the first three articles, you will consent to all the history that has been set up today by the Rules of Procedure of the House, which is cut and sewn to hit the Golden Dawn politically and parliamentaryly. That's introductory. I should like to say, Mr President, that today's inappropriate debate, and by the majority, on the Rules of Procedure of the House, is under the shadow of the murderous, terrorist attack on two members of the Golden Dawn last Thursday at the offices of the local organisation of the Egyptians. Left-wing criminals, gangbangers, your likeness, para-staters, have set up a murderous ambush - the newspaper showed you yesterday and Mr. Shahinides, our MP - to two members of the Golden Dawn. They broke the hands of a hammering competitor - you see our blood here - a competitor and of course we had no condemnation of the attack by any party in this House, nor by the President of Parliament, the one in other cases. Imagine having a slogan on some licensed world - why don't you pick up people, you've got spidered windows locally - locally in the New Democracy or SYRIZA or KKE, we had to have a slogan or a broken jam, what would have happened in here, in this room. "The condemnation of violence" you would all say, "the fascists". What can you tell us? What can you tell us? You're hypocrites about violence. Violence characterizes you and your violent ideologies. After all, the violence of the Bolsheviks was based on the October Revolution, this historical memory and your ideology, as well as on the violence of the guillotine, the French Revolution was based. So you have no right to speak - and I do not mean within Ethiopia, it is rhetorical - because you have no moral advantage. You have an immoral advantage and this is the immoral advantage of the Left. You're protecting your children too. They're the ones doing the murderous attacks on our competitors. Mr President, in addition to the timeliness I have mentioned and the non-determination of the attack to say - and to unleash some of you - that in the corridors of various MPs, 'licking' on the Golden Dawn, you say 'I will condemn this, I will condemn what has happened' and you will come here and you are chickens'. Yesterday our competitor, Shahinides, caused you, and no one spoke. In addition to this timeline, we also have the Prime Minister's celebration of Eurogroup. And the unexplained co-pilot Kammenos suggests to him penis ties, of course throwing into his post completely immoral burdens upon his son. So, Eurogroup. Why is the Prime Minister celebrating? Why does he not call on the President of the Golden Dawn Parliamentary Group to inform him of this great success, our Chief Nikos Michaloliako, of the third political force, because he does not call on him - and let Michaeliaco not speak - to say to him "Mr. Michaloliako, great national success! Eurogroup! Did we do it!"? What did you do? We're proud you haven't called Mr. Michaliokos, gentlemen of SYRIZA, Prime Minister. So, Nicholas Michaloliakos, outside of Golden Dawn, it is an honor that we are not like you and it is our duty to take our country back. What does this famous Eurogroup provide for and what do mass media avoid better, which do not want to see the monstrous arrangements made in this Eurogroup? I will quote the truth in the Minutes - and those who are at the disposal, let them study it - the relevant passage of the Eurogroup agreement. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Christos Papapas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] This passage essentially states that there is a regulation that you, the government of national minority, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, accepted to collect a dose of 8.5 billion, which you will give back to the loan sharks and lenders exactly the same. So you accepted in this controversial arrangement that I have tabled, that the storm will further increase, that pensions, wages, income will be reduced, that housing, the first residence of the Greeks will be preserved, that companies will be closed down because of the inability to pay taxes, that pain, misery, poverty will increase. In other words, this vortex of modern Greek tragedy will not end. You will sell out all national wealth, PPC, EYDAP, ports, airports, energy reserves, energy wealth, tourist properties, public buildings, land, just to remain in power. This regulation provides that by 2023 we will give 15% of the gross national product to lenders, i.e. 27 billion, and from 2023 onwards we will give 33 billion. So, you've agreed on memos forever, promised and sold out the country. That's why you're celebrating, and that's why Mr. Kammenos suggests similar ties. Another topical issue, an important national issue - because, as we have said many times from this Step, the memoranda will lead to national catastrophe - is our big national theme called Skopje. He revealed a Sunday newspaper - and we have heard from it and not only - that the name to be announced by the Minister of Foreign Affairs Mr Kotzias, who is due to go to Skopje, is "Macedonia of Bardaris". It will therefore agree that this state should be called the "Macedonia of Bardaris", in substance validating the betrayal initiated on the days of New Democracy. From the Step that Abrahamopoulos said in July 2012, as Minister of Foreign Affairs, during the vote on a vote of confidence in the House, that we are making the great concession for a name geographically determined. Really, what board of political leaders was called to decide on this approach? So the betrayal prepared by SYRIZA for our Macedonia has the full consensus of both the New Democracy and the rest of the so-called 'democratic arch'. This is denounced by the Golden Dawn. It was also reported by our Chief since October 2015 from the Step of the Greek Parliament. We have a clear view of this. We say: No compromises for our Macedonia, no secret consultation for our Macedonia. Kumoutsakos from New Democracy met with the Skopje Foreign Minister. So what did they talk about and what did they agree to? New Democracy's consent to national betrayal. They have told them since 2012. Mr President of the House, you will allow me to say, by following the telepsy, that in the last 20 years at least there has been no more ridiculous scene than what I have seen, you, with your institutional role as President of the House, have been informed by Mr Tsipras on camera. I want to tell you that it would be good if your time allowed...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u79	Please, Mr. Pappa, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u80	Eighteen minutes I shall speak, Mr President, as Mr Tragakis has said.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u81	I will give you time, but I would ask you to speak on the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, Mr President. I'll talk in two minutes. If your time allows you to take some rapid lessons in diplomatic history, where you need to learn the dogma - this also applies to Skopje - that the solution to a national problem, a problem of two-state relations, often is the non-resolution. You told Mr. Tsipras that we urgently need a solution for the Cyprus issue. What solution? Where will Cyprus become a federal party? Where will the President of the Republic of Cyprus become a co-legislator, will he become a member of a community? Look at it, please. Not to mention the Kammenos case and the plagiarism that the New Democracy has done from the revelation we and you said that it was 'Karfi'. It was a parliamentary question of our Member, the Bunny, the disgracefulness of Kammenos with the isovite. You've made a plagiarism! May I refer to the Turkish Prime Minister, Gildirim, who came and completely uncovered a spurious Prime Minister, said "were you violating"? "The deposits" - said the Turk a few days ago - "is a universal human heritage". The country's energy deposits! So we denounce your in-house policy, which was commissioned by this Turkish Prime Minister to go around our Greek Thrace on the pretext of a private visit and to be accepted by the Turkish-minded as the Prime Minister of the mother's homeland. Well, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Any Greek Muslim citizen feels Turkish, whether inside or out of Parliament, going to Turkey! Mr President, I shall say two words about the Rules of Procedure. I said he's cut and stitched in your footsteps. So it says Article 1: 'From the members of the Bureau the first, the second and the third Vice-Presidents, the two Quaestors, etc., come from the first to a power of Parliament. The second Vice-President, etc.’. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. You change this, the "first in power" Parliamentary Group, and you cut it and sew it into your measures, so that the Golden Dawn will come out, replacing the "first in power of a parliamentary group" with the "second in power of a parliamentary group", and so on. So you are dealing with the very possible case - that the Greek people will experience in the near future and before the elections that you are evangelizing in 2019 or after the 2019 elections, if you want - which the first two to power parties collide. You guys are the same. You're voting together on memos. Why wouldn't you? You already work excellently. So you do so so that the third political power, the Golden Dawn, Vice-President, Quaestor and Secretary is not entitled to it. We promise, however, that we will soon be the second parliamentary force. We are already the second parliamentary force in the hearts of the Greek people. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Don't laugh. Keep an eye on the press. You MPs are not paid for free. Already in the low-income social groups, Golden Dawn is a second parliamentary force with a growing trend and this has terrified you. So we promise you that we will become a second parliamentary force throughout the Greek people. In the second article you say about the roll-call vote on the President's election and on this pretext of transparency - because you are talking about transparency - you are abolishing the secret vote. Transparency, ladies and gentlemen, has nothing to do with the election of the President of Parliament. That is what you say in Rule 3 on the vote on the Vice-Presidents. It is clear, therefore, that the roll-call vote you are proposing - at least in the election of a Vice-President - prevents the secret vote of the candidate for the Golden Dawn. I remind you that in October 2015 our competitor Yiannis Aivatidis who was candidate, while in the Chamber they were 17 Members of the Golden Dawn, received 59 positive votes with secret ballot. In conclusion, I say that the relevant provisions are being circumvented in an anti-parliamentary and anti-democratic way any ethics and any proper functioning of the Greek Parliament, any overall representation, as you said before, of all the parliamentary groups. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So you, not only with this - which is a meaningless thing today - but with all that you do, sow winds and reap storms. The people will win. Be sure that the days of freedom will come, we will take our homeland back and say a proud 'no' to you, a 'no' to the Rules of Procedure. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u83	The special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Pafilis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Mr President. The people will win and send all those who say all that they deserve and who sent them historically. That's for sure. Now, on the subject of amending the Rules of Procedure, we would like to make a number of general remarks and a number of articles. First of all, let us say that despite the changes that have been made - which are, of course, in a positive direction, several of them - we shall vote for, in essence, the Rules of Procedure of the House, which always operates, like all the previous ones, in favour of the majority of the government and at the expense of the smaller parties. Much more, in order to make a connection, which the government majority - all so far - did not respond to what the people voted on because of their electoral systems, let us say, with 35%, 160 MPs, while they should be 3X3=9, 105. I'm talking about an example. With this logic, therefore, all the Regulations are finally cut off and sewed into the measures of the majority of them and at the expense of the smaller parties, in addition to improvements which can be made. My second point is that this rehab of Parliament by the government, which has been said, is a pretext. How am I supposed to say it, so I won't say another expression? But is that possible? In the House every time the hundred and fifty ones vote whatever they want - even unconstitutional and everything. How do they behave in the final analysis? That's how they act. It's nothing special about the party from the congressman. Every Member is going down with a particular party and is elected and so it works or has to function. That's our position, too. Anyone who disagrees, resigns, goes to the people and gives the battle from there and is re-elected in whatever shape he considers. So let us not create the myth that parliament and MPs are something different or may be something different from the parties to which they belong and, of course, also from the government. In order not to open up the debate on the character and civil parliamentary democracy. Whether it is democracy and there is popular sovereignty, which is also expressed in the House. What is popular sovereignty, when wealth and means of production have them a handful - that is where democracy starts - that is where everyone else is exploited? This is the capitalist system. So what is expressed in this House also serves precisely the same goal. What popular sovereignty? Look at the elections in France, for example, where a minority of the government came out, with less than 50%. The same goes for other places. This shows even the degeneration of her, of course, but this is another general debate. The second important thing is this. We have forgotten what normal procedure means in Parliament. A bill that comes under normal procedure is rare if it already exists. Secondly, Parliamentary control, on the basis of the Rules of Procedure - I am not saying entirely - is rare too. Twenty-three times, and three were answered today. There are no Deputy Ministers? There aren't any Undersecretaries? Not to say now about the rest of the urgent and urgent procedure. And today, then, a bill is being tabled, which goes on Friday to committee and on Monday or Tuesday. That's all the time. So the point is that whatever Rules of Procedure we have is constantly being violated, since we've forgotten what's going to say in normal procedure. That's a matter after all. As far as the Rules of Procedure are concerned, we are now focusing on certain articles, with which we are not in agreement. For example, in Article 10, to identify them, the regulation made by speakers, depending on the parliamentary power of the parties, is at the expense of the smaller parties, if that is the case. In other words, in a process and in a debate, if what has been customarily guaranteed is maintained, namely that after the rapporteurs and special speakers there is a series of words of one of the parties, then if speakers go according to the power of the parliamentary groups and take into account the procedures with which this House operates, due to the choices made by the government, - and this one and the previous ones - with urgency and urgency, we will not have another speaker in the final analysis. This will be done within the time limits given here. We therefore disagree and vote against it. Article 16: Management of emergencies. What's going on here? What has been happening in recent years is coming and institutionalised in the Rules of Procedure. And what are the problems? The problems are, firstly, that there is a more limited debate and, secondly, that there is a reduction in voting time. On the second point, of course, we are concerned about how much time the parties have to put themselves in the House, but much more we are concerned about something else: how it responds to the popular movement that concerns it. Because the practice, for many years now, of the emergency and emergency workers has been to avoid popular reactions. And it's not just the special regime, as you say, that we are now. There may be such a thing, but the substance is it: When you bring a bill within three days and finish it, no strikes can be prepared, no mobilisations or, in the final analysis, people better informed about what is happening with this bill. Above all, that is why we do not agree, beyond that the speaking time is reduced. Prime Minister's time: so far it has been nine to six, in favour of the Prime Minister. Now it's thirty to ten-seven. Who wins? It is clear that it is in favour of the Prime Minister. Isn't that how time is it? What's the difference? Of course, what is happening - and it was happening - has nothing to do with all this. To such questions, and today, the Prime Minister spoke an hour ago, and I don't know how long everyone else has been talking. Ultimately, all of this is a pretext and we do not agree. In Rule 22 we are voting 'at present', not because we consider that there is no need for partners in the Scientific Council of Parliament, but because we are opposed to these working relationships, namely three-year, two-year-olds, one-year-olds, etc. And because we have always been - and we are - in favour of permanent and stable jobs, in this respect we are voting 'at present' and not on another side. As far as the issue of topical and urgent questions is concerned, of course, it is a measure of what is being introduced. What will benefit in practice, though? Here, this is a political issue of the government and the respective Minister, whether he comes to the House or not. Whatever you put on, he'll find a pretext if he doesn't want to come. It depends on the will of each minister. I repeat, there are Deputy Ministers and State Secretarys who can be informed by the agencies. We understand that everyone has a specialty in this and he's gonna want to answer. The Ministry, however, is single. It's not two ministries. When he has three, let someone be charged to prepare to come and answer to the House. Sometimes, it ends up - to say it - ridiculous. One is doing a timely one today and is being discussed in two months that is not timely. Don't say it's been forgotten by most people. Timely it means you're trying to intervene and bring a problem of immediate news, pressure the government to solve it, or, anyway, put it on it. This is not solved, despite the fact that it is improved. That is why we do not have much objections. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. There is a debate on the subject of roll-call vote. We wonder. Is it possible that people do not know what the Member is voting for, who is elected by the people? Is it possible for other people to say more to vote in general and not to have courage to clash with his party? What does it mean to say that in the secret ballot, he votes consciously and clearly he votes differently? Is he schizophrenic? Does she have two consciences? If he can't withstand his party's pressure, he's quitting and leaving. We are in favour of the people knowing what each individual votes on all matters, so that they know who each one is. The same applies to the question of the correction that is being made. If anyone gets out, he's gonna be a fool. People need to know that they voted that way and then pushed him and changed his vote. So the world needs to know, although what is judged is the political parties as a whole. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. We therefore have no objection to all of this. After all, our party is openly placed and has a different perception. As we have a different understanding of these differentiations as a whole and all that is happening in this House. This is not only theoretical, but we are also practically observing it. Let me explain what we mean: we do not accept many times, despite what has been done, MPs who are differentiated in the House to come to our group. Whoever differentiates and has been elected with a programme and with a party, our opinion is that he should resign, go down to the people and fight. From there on, of course, it's a different subject. This is our overall position for the Rules of Procedure. Thank you, Mr President, for the fifty-five seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u85	The rapporteur for the Independent Greeks, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u86	Thank you, Mr President. I'm interested to hear the conversation. It's also a period of transfer, so it's also timely. A number of suggestions are made. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the debate that is taking place on the change in the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, the Independent Greeks are in favour of change for good reasons, most important of which is to strengthen the procedures and build the confidence, both between us and you and the voters and the Greek people, who I think are very often following the Channel of Parliament and is being informed. Therefore, modernising the Rules of Procedure of the House will also reflect a change of mind in the functioning of the House, which will also be seen by the Greek citizen, which I think is extremely important. Of course, the Greek citizen must understand that what we do here we do for the Greek citizen. We don't do it for either of us or for our parties. Because the Greek citizen and the voter are the one who sends us to Parliament, the one who controls us, the one who controls the three hundred, and he is the one who will ultimately judge us in every election procedure. Parliament's procedures are not easy to monitor. For example, we are trying in the committee to monitor Mr Tragakis' thoughts and documentation, which is more experienced than me and the most experienced in the House, and even we are unable and we need a little effort to understand how all the changes should be made. That is why we must be clear, say things with their name and with very simple words. I think the previous Members have done so in a very successful way. Let's start with the roll-call vote. My colleague from the Communist Party of Greece said so. I do not understand why there should be no roll-call vote. And I don't think the citizen will understand it, and I'm addressing the citizen more. The citizen, who voted and put him in Parliament with some crosses, must know what he is voting for. And not secretly, but openly. Because then he will go to the cafeteria and to his electoral base and will do the debate: 'Why did you vote for this, or why didn't you vote for it?' If it is a secret vote, whether for the Presidents or for the Vice-Presidents, there is no dialogue on the basis, in society. So I think it is the right thing to do and it will be in the very positive position of our own government, with the President of Parliament, Mr Voutsis, that change. The extension to the representatives of the other parties was a suggestion and a discussion we have had several times in the committee. I think it is to the law and the most proactive representation of all parties in the Vice-Presidents. What we have said and will say here in plenary is that at some point we must all decide on the responsibilities of the Vice-Presidents. Not to be a Vice-President simply to replace someone else in the proper procedures of the House, but also to have some responsibilities: to check from somewhere, to hand over a project, to do a specific project and to have specific responsibilities. And I think it will be to the most creative but also the most productive of the work of the Greek Parliament. I am going to omit some articles, since we will also support the whole change, as we have said in committee. I shall refer to someone who I consider to be important. The presence of the Court of Auditors during the budget and the State's accounts is extremely important. For many of us, without excluding myself, do not have an absolute view of all the legal frameworks that can govern any legislation when we draw up a budget for the state. It is advisable to present the special and highly skilled and to make their suggestions so that we all have one opinion and that any vote is covered, or that any opinion is expressed to the public and to the Greek citizen. There has been a lot of discussion about the institutions. It must be a representative sample. My experience shows that when it is more than one committee, it is not ten. I do not know, however, if, when we have twenty or thirty, it is time for someone to express their positions, leave a note and speak for two minutes. Because when you have a very important bill - and we see that from now on everything is very important - it is not something that can be "discovered" very quickly. The body representing natural and legal persons will come in, it will have to document its recommendation, if it agrees or disagrees, to leave its note and it will obviously take more time than two to three minutes. I've already been talking for four minutes, and I haven't even said one fifth of what I want to say. Imagine how many minutes it takes. It should be comprehensive. We need to try to create a process of talking, what kind of suggestions they should give. We need to help them. If we have specific time, we need to set up a procedure for what they say, what they will say and what they will leave, what documentation, so that the body's position can also be covered, so that the whole process can be in substance. Because the body should go back to its board or to those it represents and say 'I went to Parliament in two minutes, in three minutes, I said this, I left this note, I had these reactions and got my minutes back and this debate took place'. I think - and I hope and imagine - that all the minutes are shared by all the institutions. Correction of votes: In electronic age it is very likely that it will become a mistake, pressing a button. We've all done this too many times. We've sent the wrong e-mail, we've sent the wrong message to the cell phone, we've all done it. We have to predict the mistake in the electronic age. I also told the committee that I trust the Greek MP and we must all trust the Greek MP for his judgment. Human error must be forgiven and the right to correct the vote must be given and nothing else. Everything will be electronic, it will be uploaded, so the citizen will see - if you like - as his colleague of the JRC said, if it was wrong, who did so and whether it was by mistake or for any other reason. I do not even want to think about the Greek citizen and voter thinking that there is a case for a Member to be politically blackmailed from his leader or from another party or from a non-parliamentary, extra-institutional body to change his vote. This is not happening at least in our Greek democracy, it happens in others. With regard to the time and the right to speak by former Prime Ministers and former Members of Parliament in Rule 14, Mr Tragakis has rightly raised the matter. We didn't even know. He told us, for example, that there were former party leaders who did not know how much they should speak. It is good for everyone to know their rights, because this helps democracy and work in the Greek Parliament. As far as emergencies are concerned, we have exhausted it. Let's talk about the topical questions. There's one problem, we've said it. The topical issue is the timely one, so it must be discussed as warmly as it is in time, because that is why we are asking the topical questions. They shouldn't be dating. And I am making an idea here: if you ask a question, the Minister does not come because of an impediment - which is very correct - and in between the month the problem of your question is solved, let a reply from the Ministry come. Do you understand? To communicate with the people. I mean, it's not an ACP question. For the time being, too, the same must be true. Having asked a timely question as a Member and resolved the ministry, or found a coma, but especially when it has been resolved, there is no feedback there. The congressman doesn't know what's happened. He has to ask again a question and the Minister must come or tell him on the phone 'You know, we have resolved it'. Send it in between, the Member should also contact me and say 'the question I rightly asked in parliamentary scrutiny was resolved not by me, but by the Ministry and we are fine'. Because if there is no communication of the interim solution from time to time, from coma or from change to the programme of the House, then the question remains and it becomes timely and not timely. But, when it is solved, I think it is right that the Ministry should reply in writing 'there is a coma, but in the intervening period, Mr Papoutsis, the problem has been resolved in this way. Take it in writing and contact the voters and any other body that you have represented or has been the source of the timely question.’ As far as the Prime Minister is concerned, now the Prime Minister, at least ours, comes to the House, answers what is being asked - any time-consuming questions to the Prime Minister - he is not afraid of time, he speaks twenty and thirty minutes. So, why would he talk ten minutes and not talk 30 minutes? Talk 30! Can I get him to "apologise"? Let him apologize! Checked? Check it out! We're all in control, even the Prime Minister. And I think it is the most democratic and the most appropriate thing to increase the speaking time of the Prime Minister to explain. He's the Prime Minister, he's the leader of the country and the representative of all of us invincible parties! It must come to the House and have time to speak, so that it analyses and answers, especially to the Greek people, because the questions we ask are not to be answered to us personally, nor to any personal interest or biscuit. The question we ask comes from the Greek people and must be answered to the Greek people. Therefore, the Prime Minister's answer and time is extremely important. I think the thirty minutes are enough, and if necessary, it could increase. I do not consider this to be a sign of inequality or a superprotection of the Prime Minister. Not to come at all, to come, to speak and to check and to accept all the questions from colleagues and whatever comes from there. With regard to the electronic format more than records - and colleagues have said so - it is extremely important. In the new era, all documents and all correspondence and legal documents are covered, whether they have or have no electronic signature, so we have to go to the new era. That's right. And with these few, I'm closing. We are voting in favour. I would like to thank my colleagues very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u87	Mr Saridis, special speaker of the Centroon Union, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u88	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have been living hard for years. As a dear person says, the years that we are currently living are'resented years'. As you certainly recognise, both during the work of the current parliamentary term and the previous ones, legislation of an urgent and urgent nature, particularly in the context of the economic support programmes, tends to become a rule. For twenty months, the Centroon Association has been presenting its first presence in the Parliament. For the last twenty months, the Rules of Procedure of the House have not been applicable to all the work carried out, either in committees or in plenary. It is being violated almost every day, you will allow me to say, without any sign of exaggeration. No one claims that ruling a country and in particular ruling Greece under these conditions is easy. No one, however, claims that legislating is easy. No one claims that in our democracy we are all ruling together, but everyone claims that the House should legislate with the broadest possible majority. Only then can the legislator meet the needs and concerns of the majority of the Greek people. In today's House, the procedures of urgency and urgency have become routine. In today's House, we legislate, we legislate, we pre-empt legislation. In today's House, we have lost, in the view of the Central Association, contact with reality. This last, of course, is timeless and is not only the prerogative of the current government. Ministers are not answering questions or answering questions when questions have lost their weight, meaning, substance. There are no amendments to sanctions. We are legislating with late-night amendments, at the last minute, by losing the possibility of fuller information and fairer voting, evaluation, the value of the vote we can give to the amendments. There is no respect for the status of parliamentarian and, above all, for the Members of the minor opposition. I think you understand why I say that. As a result of all this, the consolidation in the consciousness of a large number of our fellow citizens - the greatest I would say - is the conviction that parliamentary procedures are of a clear-cut nature, with what this means for the functioning of our democracy. Moreover, when a contempt for executive power towards legislative power has long been tolerated, unwritten, but fundamental principles of our culture are undermined. Ladies and gentlemen, the Central Association will support the amendment and changes to the Rules of Procedure and in principle and on the articles. The amendments to the Rules of Procedure achieve the strengthening of Parliament by promoting the democratic principle, the principle of transparency and parliamentaryism. Transparency is an objective in the procedure for Members' permissions to prosecute. In the right direction, it is specified that the documents will be filed in a certified copy and numbered by serial number. The election of the Bureau of Parliament by roll-call procedure, instead of the secret procedure in force, but also the possibility of electing a Vice-President from the sixth and seventh parliamentary powers is in the right direction. In order to upgrade the institution of the so-called Prime Minister's Hour, the speaking time of the participants in the debate is increasing, and this is also in a positive direction. For the first time in the Rules of Procedure the voting procedure is introduced. Above all, this is important in cases of roll-call vote for obvious reasons, with the consent of the House, even after the vote has ended, and also the announcement of the result. Of course we do not know what impact the honourable Member will have, but we give him the opportunity to change it. The wider involvement of social bodies in the committees during the legislative process is also in the right direction. Except that the experience we have from today's functioning of the committees and the way we are legislating, I think that even the number ten might be a little bit, as well as the time when the bodies that come here are not the right one, is not the one with which operators could argue. It is a good thing that the Court of Auditors' audit reports are being notified, as is the possibility of calling for information and clarification. Ladies and gentlemen, the changes that are coming are very important. I would almost say that they are imposed by the day-to-day operation. They are a one-way path to the smooth functioning of the House. But by themselves, it's not enough. The Rules of Procedure of the House must be implemented by Members, ministers and presidents and must not be violated by anyone. It presupposes the political will to respect everyone. It requires a change of attitude from all of us, so that we can see a different day. Outside, in our view, there is a world waiting for us, which demands that we go beyond it, that the country be saved and that the Greek economy emerges. This, however, presupposes all of us, from all of us, from the members of the legislative and government, respect for the Rules of Procedure of Parliament, the functioning and laws of the Constitution and of the State. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u89	Thank you, too. We proceed with Mr Lykoudi, a special speaker of the party in Potami and Vice-President of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, on the occasion of today's debate allow me two comments. They are not directly related to the articles that we are amending, to the specific arrangements that we are doing. But they are related to parliamentary procedures and I would like to say them from this Step. I accept that the Prime Minister is honest when he says that, in his view, with the latest developments, political operation is taking place in the country at a new stage and therefore parliamentary function, and so the government must be aware of how to strengthen these functions. I think the government should be very careful, because it is a new approach to legislation. Now there's no excuse. I accept that not for a few weeks or a few months, but for years, there have been extraordinary situations in the country. So too many times it was obvious that we had to lead to tighter or harder legislative work procedures. I should like to accept that urgency and urgency have often been necessary and not within the bad intentions of a government. But this cannot continue. Because, in these circumstances, it was a shameful way of bringing legislation in an urgent or urgent way and many times with a set of amendments that were irrelevant to the draft legislation under discussion. In this sense, I say that the legislative function and the functioning of parliamentary control must be dealt with in another way. It was a positive attempt to group up the topical questions, classify them by Ministry or by subject, so that we can have more efficient work on it. But that, Mr President, because you are present, is not corrected, if we have twenty-time questions and four or five or three are answered. I, beyond my work as a Member of Parliament to experience this issue, see it when I am in the Bureau. How many times I read unchallenged questions! I have more time to read these than to read what is being discussed! I do not know if it is the solution proposed by Mr Tragakis to read out the question to force the Minister who will leave her unanswered next time, because this is an extortionary way of running this House and I do not like this. I am an institution, I want us to act consciously at all levels of the House. But something has to be done. This permanent contempt for Parliamentary Control is a major problem. Ladies and gentlemen, for the changes to be made, first of all, there is one serious issue, the issue of roll-call voting. I do not want to mention this because the river Parliamentary Group has met. Mr Mavrotas will be here and he will give you the opinion of the Members in the parliamentary group. I will tell you the two - three remarks I have to make about the change in the arrangements being discussed. First of all, I am positive about the arrangements, and I think I did well because they are arrangements that have come as mature needs and after discussions that have taken place several times in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure and, now, now and again. There are two points which I would like to take care of. I have one comment to make. However, my remark is more substantial and I would say more penetrating to what is being proposed. The first point I would like to make is this. Almost the whole of Parliament's votes, as far as I know or what I have just said, raise the question of correcting the vote by Members. Because it is compulsory sometimes, if we want to be substantial and serious in the decisions we take, see if there is a mistake somewhere, how it can be corrected. However, there is one point which we need to take care of, because it is sometimes indiscreet or will be indiscreet of the sincere desire of a Member of Parliament to correct his vote from a vote which is then made by some authority in the conscience of the blackmailer who can be made to him. This cannot be easily formulated or investigated. It's not easy at all. But there is a question. If anyone tells me what we are doing, then what do we do?’, it is enough for me to say so, ladies and gentlemen, and that is politically important in a modern parliament, even when it is difficult to find a direct solution to the issue. I mean, if you tell me we have a scale. On the one hand, there is the need to correct a vote which is honest and, on the other, the possibility of this correction being due to a blackmail of the Member's conscience, I have the impression that it is turning to the side of the need to correct the balance. So to do it, I am not a negative one, but I raise the issue, because I believe that I am right and because I believe that you are all thinking about this, that there may be such a matter. The second, which is my objection, is Article 22. Other colleagues have mentioned this. This is the possibility, in other words, for the Scientific Council of Parliament to be recruited on the basis of needs. There is, first of all, the question: Can there be such a need? Of course he can. Developments exist, work runs, nobody knows tomorrow what it takes to strengthen the job. Already the President, the Professor knows that. Of course, there's a need. Whoever says we're fine, he's wrong, he's not telling the truth. The point is to see how this can be done so that there are no misunderstandings, that there are no whims which are politicised in the discussion process, and that they are no longer glamorous and are made political objections, many times and unfair, to see how we can avoid it. Two ways can be done. The main suggestion is that a Scientific Council should be set up and that it should be strictly justified and with specific reference to the need for which the recruitment process is called for. If that is the case, it is strictly justified - and indeed, at the request of the Scientific Council - that is what I think is in the right direction. However, we must not let this vagueness which has to do with even the number of recruitments be suspended. Suspect's starting now. So why do you want to take three? Maybe they need two. You come here and suggest four. Why are you suggesting four? What's he talking about? Are there other designs that solve balances or perhaps something else? All this, ladies and gentlemen, I think that they should be answered and answered frankly, because otherwise many problems arise. I shall conclude, because I do not want to get far - there have been many interesting things said - with one observation. You know, many times the Rules of Procedure formally solve problems which are stifled in the air by failure to comply with the Rules of Procedure of the House. Let me have a little experience of how I manage the discussions from the Chair. There's no tolerance for all of us in the time violation. There is about one agreed logic here, which says that everyone speaks as much as he likes and despises the Bureau, when he says that he has gone far beyond his time. Therefore, in the article setting out the new regulations of the years - I do not remember what an article is - they sound a little out of reality when we have all seen how time is going on in the discussion process. Let me tell you something else. I do not know if I violate some sacredly agreed time-consuming attitudes to the Prime Minister and the President of Officerial Response, but at least not to put any time in order to make sure they don't seem to speak for twenty minutes. To be at the top of time and to speak as much as the Prime Minister or the Chief of Officerial Response wants. This story, that is to say, writing the clock that they have the right to speak for twenty minutes and to speak for fifty-seven, fifty-nine or sixty-two - not twenty-three or twenty-five - is one thing that cannot be justified by anything. I'm telling you again, with full respect for their role, not to put time, not to set time for the Prime Minister and the Chief of Staff. Secondly - and lastly, I am doing so in sight because I think that if these things are heard, it is not slowly excluded - that they are beginning to work in our consciences - we cannot talk about any problem at all, when we take the floor in a specific bill on a specific subject. And this thing is not tolerant, but almost in agreement. You have, for example, followed the speech of the Representative of the Golden Dawn, Mr. Pappas. I don't do what man said. He said what he wanted and what he thought he was right. He was not at all interested in dealing with the subject under discussion that was the change in the Rules of Procedure of the House. Macedonia, Skopje, Eurogroup, everything. His right was to think about all this and say it as he wants, but a sense of relative contact with the subject you can't have. It is not a matter of Mr Papapas or anyone else who is thus violating the Rules of Procedure. He's not Mr. Pappa's now because I mentioned him. This is done too many times in this Chamber. There is an absolute contempt for the subject raised by the speaker at Step and his need to express what he wants to say, without being interested in breaking the Rules of Procedure at that time. The Bureau is in a weak position - because it is powerless to press a button and cut off a colleague at the time he speaks. But something has to be done. Thank you, Mr President,
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u91	Thank you, Mr. Lykoudi. The problem was if you guys were in breach of time, what was I supposed to do. But you didn't break him. You were consistent. We shall now proceed to the Members of Parliament. The first will be Mr Efstathos Panagulis, an Independent MEP. Please, Mr. Panagoulis, you have the floor for your position or for the Step where you wish.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, Mr President. I'll speak from my place.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u93	In the Rules of Procedure you have the floor for five minutes, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u94	Why, Mr President, five minutes? This is where they talked.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u95	Rules say so. I will have a tolerance, but the Rules of Procedure say five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u96	The government's party that comes today to tell us that it revises the Rules of Procedure is to throw ashes in the eyes. Anyway, I'll talk for five minutes, Mr. President. I will begin with Article 19, which says about a minister's coma for timely questions. I have asked 15 time-consuming questions to the Ministry of Finance and there was not even one Minister to answer. You know that because you've often been in the Chair. I've asked the Ministry of Citizen Protection six times and they haven't shown up. So if we fall into the same story, does the Minister have a coma? I will tell you with specific figures on two of these cases. The Minister who had the question here and declared a coma, took his breakfast to the hotel "Great Britain". Next time the minister who had declared a coma was in the café of the House. So we're kidding! Article 22, Mr President, concerns recruitment of scientific staff. This article is purely rosphetological. Remember that I will be shared here, because scientific staff can be recruited by the respective President of the Parliament by hundreds of staff with great qualifications and degrees and postgraduate and foreign languages. I wonder if we'd like to make some people comfortable. It is purely rousphetological in this article, because - I repeat, because it is important - when Parliament has hundreds of qualified and experienced staff, it is unacceptable to recruit new people to satisfy some of the rushphetological provisions. The other has to do with the Members' permission to prosecute them. I have been here many times since 1977, which I have been a Member of Parliament many times, that when it comes to prosecuting Members, the parties should have given a clear mandate to the Members of Parliament that, in the absence of a Member of Parliament's offence during a speech or an article, they must go directly to the prosecutor. The other mockery we're making is this. It is a secret, he says, the vote on the immunity of the MPs. What vote is secret, Mr President, when we write our name, surname and constituency? Is this vote a secret? That vote is not a secret. However, we have been used to decades in this Chamber for the instructors of certain parties and for Members to order whether to waive immunity or not to waive immunity. I would also like to refer to the sixth and seventh power in the House from which Vice-Presidents will come. If tomorrow is also the eighth and ninth power of Parliament, then what happens? What transaction is this about the sixth and seventh power? I have no problem getting the Potami, Mr. Leventis taking the position of Vice President. You say nothing about the rights of independent Members. We are attending meetings which last forty, forty, fifty, sixty and seventy hours, and which are blocked by an independent MEP to be able to speak for three or five minutes, as you have done today, Mr President. I have fought - and the President of Parliament, Mr Voutsi, is here - to give the Chamber for the independent Members. I sent him letters and sent him back. We had reached the eight MPs. Now I think we're six. Mr. Voutsi gave us a phone booth! We are six MPs and we have two and a half offices. We're six MPs and we didn't have a TV. We made a document to put us on TV. So what we are saying is that all MPs are equal to the law and the Constitution. Another thing which may not be part of the process today, as far as Parliament's channel is concerned. I would like, Mr President of the House, Mr Nicholas Voutsi, to ask you not to bother me all the time from Parliament's channel. It is shameful, Mr Voutsi, that for two years I have been an independent MP, while all the Members have passed, not to call me. It's totally unacceptable. Today's TV of Parliament reminds us of the flawless memory of YENED. Mr President, I will not vote for this bill. I think it is unacceptable, provocative and that we are also insulting our intelligence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Mr. Panagoulis. Mr. Danellis, Member of the River, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, Mr President. I have asked for the floor to refer to two, in my view, of major issues which, unfortunately, have nothing to do with the committee's work. The first issue is about time management. I think the misconception that has prevailed that the longer we have in our places, from the ordinary Members to the leaders, the more we serve democracy and the free movement of ideas that we must ensure. I think that's a mistake. I think we should look again at the management of parliamentary time for the quality of democracy. It is no accident - we are talking about many times, but we are only talking about the point - that in the European Parliament, which cannot question the democraticity and effectiveness of its functions, even though it has these characteristics with the seven hundred Members of Parliament, from twenty-eight countries - until yesterday twenty-nine - from different political groups, the usual time for MEPs to place in plenary is one minute. I think we will serve democracy and freedom of speech and ideas if we deal with parliamentary time differently. The second issue concerns our obligation and the right - but above all the obligation - to safeguard and defend parliamentary life. I have said on many occasions, Mr President, that unfortunately the accession of the Golden Dawn to Parliament a time is completely different from Parliament's pre-Golden Dawn time. It has proved in practice, unfortunately, that the Rules of Procedure with its predictions cannot deal with practical behaviour that is incompatible with parliamentary and democracy. I think we have an obligation to see how we can be effective in preventing, not even in dealing with, moral behaviours, which we have seen in recent times escalate. I don't want to add anything else. I think, however, that there are two issues which may not have the opportunity today to deal with, but time is open before us to amend the Rules of Procedure with regard to these two issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, too. As Mr Lykoudis and you mentioned the European Parliament, it is a very easy matter. If this view is taken by a majority, then we decide to interrupt automatically without the President or the President being called into question with the Members. Everyone will know that in two or ten minutes the voice is stopped automatically. This is a matter for the majority to accept. If he accepts it, he will do thanks to the Bureau, because it is not a nice thing to have a controversy with the Members for a minute upstairs, a minute down.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u100	Twenty-six minutes is in an hour.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u101	All of it. If we adopt these times and accept them by a majority, the Bureau will also facilitate them. No one will complain. Mr. Carras, an independent MP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u102	Mr President, in your remark, allow me, the European Parliament represents twenty-nine nations, with twenty-nine different governments and, if you like, has limited competence over national states. The discontinuation of the speech, which seems to be evangelizing many of our colleagues, cannot be introduced into a national Parliament in the sense that there must be a real dialogue and that there must be a comfortable time. Let me remind you of the number of Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament and say that Greece can have between two and three hundred. But that doesn't matter. It is another matter which comes to my mind in relation to the views I have on the Rules of Procedure of the House and the amendments that are being discussed today. My position has been formulated too many times: While the Constitution is a saying in the concept of the parties - it has a minimum reference to Rule 29 and the functioning of the House lets it be regulated by the Rules of Procedure - the Rules of Procedure introduce the party rulership. So I'm going to be more specific. It does not allow the floor to Members and today, with these amendments, we see the following: the explanatory statement comes and tells us that it promotes the democratic principle by means of the amendments. So I ask: is it a democratic principle by means of amendments, when the positions of the Vice-Presidents are increased and the unacceptable situation is maintained, that there cannot be a Member's office of Vice-President? Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for your reply. Secondly, when the positions of the Vice-Presidents are covered by a motion of censure, how is democracy promoted? And if you want anything else and I would ask you to notice this: we have a straight violation of the Constitution here, with Articles 1 and 3 right now. I read Article 65(3). Allow me, Mr President. So what does that say? He says: 'The President and the Vice-Presidents are elected at the beginning of each parliamentary term'. And it says in the second paragraph of the same paragraph: ‘This provision does not apply to the President and Vice-Presidents elected at the current first session of the Revision Parliament’. It tells us, therefore, that any modification to the increase in the number of Vice-Presidents, since the Constitution leaves no exception and must be elected for the entire period, does not allow, even if the Rules of Procedure are amended, to be elected for the remainder of the period if positions are added. And so it comes here with a drum impact, Article 4 says: "Right after the vote and position of this amendment, the Vice-Presidents from the sixth and seventh parliamentary groups are elected to power". Did anyone get a seat if the Constitution forbids what's going on today? Unfortunately, there is no report from the Scientific Office of the Parliament, to see this position as well. I note that and, please, Mr President. We are going to the next issue, which is essential in our view. Is there a dialogue in this House? Is there a real dialogue? Is the Member allowed to express his views, especially for the Independents? Of course, the examples given by Mr Panagioulis are very precise. I'll fill in more. It's not a phone booth, it's a rest of the room - but not to make any more characterisation - to have an office to six Members in the House to serve. I will say something else, however, very important in my view. Reading the amendments here today determines how we debate them. The Independents seem to have no say after Rule 10, Mr President, where only they refer to 'any special speakers and MPs, those of the parliamentary groups and in the order determined by the power of the parliamentary groups'. Are we going to destroy the Constitution today? Well, let's break it down, let's go to good. It won't change anything with this function. Let's destroy it. I do not want to mention many examples, Mr President, because time is pressing. My arguments are also confirmed by the Rules of Procedure, when an analysis has been made here, and when an Independent we say 'five minutes', and we say 'we must keep this time, because it is about the injury of the rest of the speakers, when we abuse'. I will not ask for more than five minutes to prove, Mr President, the limitation of democracy that exists in this Chamber and that this amendment to the Rules of Procedure does not come to an improvement. On the contrary, he insists on him and confirms. I am voting against the whole, even if I wanted to support some of the provisions.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u103	Thank you, Mr. Carras. We're moving on with Mr. Athanasios. Two minutes is enough, Mr. Athanasios?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u104	Yes, sir. Thank you, Mr President, for exceptionally giving me the floor because I did not have time to speak. I would also like to thank my colleagues for their tolerance. I wanted two three remarks, which are mainly legal. First of all, I should like to refer to Rule 5 of the proposal and in the case of the fourteenth of the amendment to the regulation. It will create a confusion, as is the text added in relation to the previous paragraph. I would remind my fellow Members that he says that 'the task of the Conference of Presidents' - take note of this - 'is to decide, propose or give its opinion to another committee or subcommittee of Parliament, on matters which are covered by Parliament's competence, if it is not explicitly stated by the Constitution or the law'. The added text will create confusion. I'll read it a little to make it understandable. The text shall not be amended or the text shall be added to the text. ‘If the law provides for the power of a committee of Parliament...’. In other words, the law, for example, provides for a committee to hear what the Minister proposes to a regulatory authority, such as the Regulatory Authority for Railways or the Regulatory Authority for Energy, belongs to the Committee on Institutions, say. Here is the wording: 'As regards the hearing of persons for the adoption of an opinion, it will be the committee set up by the law. The Conference of Presidents shall, however, designate the committee responsible for this.' In other words, will the Conference of Presidents come and say 'is it another committee'? When the legislator has said: 'I want the Committee on Institutions', for example, will he take it to another committee? Look at that. It will create confusion and conflict with the verse or. My second point relates to Article 12 and specifically to the added Article 72a.' It is the correction to be made when a Member speaks during his vote, but not until the end of the vote, because one of the Members of a party, I say, can monitor how the majority is formed and if he sees that he is not in the interest of the ruling party or of the opposition who has made a motion of censure or anything else, to force someone to change his proposal. It is right to correct it, since it is by mistake, but immediately afterwards and without the consent of the House, because it will simply be a mistake. It's a mistake and it'll cause problems. My third point concerns Article 2. It amends Rule 7(3) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. It is the subject of the roll-call vote. You should know, ladies and gentlemen, that the secret ballot since Aristotle is developing it is a conquest of democracy. Of course the Member of Parliament has a constitutional requirement 'free speech and vote'. I therefore want to believe that in the roll-call vote he will vote in his conscience. In any case, I have the opinion that the secret was better, but it is covered by what I have just said. Next point relates to Article 19 of the proposal, Article 131(2). They're mentioning the blockages. Now, here's what kind of problem is going to happen, again legal. I'm reading you Article 19. I think Mr Panagioulis has identified it, but I will give a more legal wording. He wanted a little edited, and we could have a little comfort of time. It says in Rule 131(2) of the Rules of Procedure, as it stands: 'If, for exceptional reasons, in particular', it has them, for example, 'due to the absence of a Member, or of a competent Minister, etc., there can be no debate, then it may be postponed'. But what are you saying? You say what is meant as the minister's coma. That's limiting. If we want to do so, the paragraph which remains with the paragraph which you have put into consolidation and which says 'if there is a blockage of the Minister, in particular...' but within the first article. Otherwise a restrictive list shall be created using the imported wording. So you have to fix it. Rule 22 amends Rule 162 of the Rules of Procedure. Indeed, the Scientific Committee may propose that you take scientific staff. It's right. I also agree with Mr Lykoudi's comment from Mr Lykoudi's river.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u105	Please finish, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u106	I shall conclude, Mr President. That's what's going on. It says the term is three years, which is renewed. Mr President - and I refer to the chairman of the Scientific Council too - to be renewed once. No one is irreplaceable. So three and three years, a total of six, that's enough. And there'll be other scientists who might come. In the meantime, the composition of the Scientific Council is changing. Last comment...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u107	Please, Mr. Colleague, complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u108	I'm done. The last point is that. These are fundamental issues, because they will create problems, Mr President. As I said before, the provision that has passed and which has emerged now will create a problem, with what has been said with the interventions made to get a prisoner to testify and more, and I told them then "watch out, this provision will fall into our heads" and fell. Now listen, at 153: Watching the prototypes. The prosecution of the ministers, Article 86 of the Constitution - we are combining the provisions - comes the evidence from the Ice Bay Prosecutor's office with the Minister of Justice in Parliament for the prosecution of ministers or MPs for the waiver of immunity. Why must the originals be kept in the Ministry of Justice regarding MPs and ministers? Be kept here in the House or in any case in the Ice Award Prosecutor's Prosecutor. It has nothing to do with the executive to deal with and keep the originals, since they have to do with Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u109	Thank you, too. The President of Parliament, Mr Butsi, now has the floor. Is that enough ten minutes, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u110	Yes, sir. If I need a little more, I'll ask you. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in one of the phases of the overall changes that we have promised together that we will do in the Rules of Procedure, in the Rules of Procedure, in the Rules of Procedure, in the Rules of Procedure, etc. And I think that our work is going well enough, and we will also fill in for the first part, which has already been worked out to a very large extent, then we can now also have through Parliament - that is, through discussions that have been done here - for the first time for the whole of the parts of the Rules of Procedure - I mean for the individual Regulations, the experts, who have been attached to the Rules of Procedure - the possibility of knowing precisely the Rules of Procedure and, of course, of complying with it. It is a good job, I believe, and I thank the colleagues who have contributed to it. Before I say about some particular issues that have been raised, let me say something about the Independent Members who have listened carefully to the speeches by two colleagues. Because sometimes extremist expressions about the destruction of equality, democracy, etc. They do not help at all, I would like to say that there are special provisions in the Rules of Procedure when a group of independent Members of Parliament, which has not come down to the people, but which has emerged through this House, are involved. In the previous period, in fact, such a group had been formed. From there on, for each of the Independents, now less than ten, all the reservations have been taken - let me tell you - with the end result of practically having a privileged treatment in both speeches and participation everywhere. And thankfully, because it is right and democratic. In this sense, I do not accept what has been said and I call upon my fellow Members or with the services for all the debates that have taken place, five, six Independent Members and those who have asked for them, to see how many times they have asked and how many times they have spoken. It is above all other Members of all parties. I'm not saying above average. Please cooperate with the services to get this element, because it has indeed been predicted and always enter into the circles that take place, etc. They speak, present, outline their views and participate. So I do not accept what has been said about YENS, about the dismantling of democracy in the independents, and so on. From there on, it is not too healthy for our democracy and the phenomenon of intermediate situations, from party to party and from situation to situation. The Rules and the House fully support and support the presence of one of the MPs elected with a party, during their leave, kept the Chair and are here. It's fine, though, that way. Not all the rest of the parties, which enter four, five, seven, twelve speakers from SYRIZA, two, three, five from New Democracy, etc. that they must have a sense of democracy in their consciences, because the four, five or six speakers do not speak every six times as they would like. That's not a good thing. The extreme expression of speech sometimes doesn't help us. I now go to the essence of some of the issues that I believe are being given the opportunity to clarify: This House, during this period, will shortly be closing the first two sessions, and it has started properly - if it hadn't happened here, where it would have been, I am not saying it to bless our beards, but it has to be heard in public - in things that are slowly happening in the rest of the public. Like, for example, in the matter of the staff crisis and in the assessments that have begun and are under way. As well as in a situation of crisis, extremely large extroversion, as a follow-up to previous programmes, but not only with a number of events, visits to Parliament, etc. in contact with society, not only in Athens but throughout Greece, which was probably less in the past. As in other programmes - not to mention today, I am not going to take stock - of either building or economic or other issues. Definitely the modernisation of operations. We are also the first to hear from Mr Tragakis, in relation to his familiar electronic roaming of those who have so far been on paper, all documents, etc., and in this area we have made a great deal of progress in other areas. I believe there is a systematic work with the help of everyone so that the House can be modernised. Of course, from Christmas onwards, it will have been completely renewed and how we operate here in terms of mechanism, which everyone will be able to vote and, of course, in the most modern way possible. These things are happening. They're right and they go hand in hand with changes in the Articles of Incorporation. Ladies and gentlemen, where are we, and how are we trying? There are obviously arrangements or modernisations in the Statute which must either be done. But there are changes that respond, as some rapporteurs have rightly heard, and in the particular situation in which this House has already been in a situation of seven to eight years, it is, I hope, not yet enough, or I am almost certain of that, but it is a lot of years. It's an eight-party parliament and the previous one was seven-party. This regulation was for a House of three or four parties for decades and we understand the difference. I am also referring to the subject of the Bureau. It's a parliament, which has governments of cooperation. Fourthly, the cooperation government is the one that exists now, and it was not this Status of post-military situations in the governance of the country. And it is also a parliament, which legislates several times a year - five, six, eight - for large legislation which comes under the base and as a result of the country's memorandum agreements, assessments and commitments. So - and we have all admitted to this - there is no possibility, for example, of changing certain things through the debate, even reasonable things that are put in the debate. There is no possibility, as all these issues have been raised quite rightly by Mr Pafile, of early and penetrating knowledge of the objects involved in these legislations, etc. And so, through this experience, we have also been guided by what we are discussing urgently, and I have been pressing for a number of times under suffocating procedures. That is the reality to which the Rules of Procedure are trying - and it must be binding - to match, to describe, to demarcate and to go well and, less and less, to apply certain provisions which have in fact been recorded. That's what this is about. So this debate is not a theoretical debate on the issues of how we would like to see them, and so on, it is absolutely true. And what was heard by Mr Lykoudi, for example, about the issue of parliamentary control and other colleagues, and who have been put forward and who must also be more forceful to the government and the Rules of Procedure to press to change, because it is things that can change as practices that are very important. I shall refer to a number of more specific issues. Let me tell you about the roll-call vote. First of all, for someone who is listening, there is the impression that there are secret and roll-call votes here. There is no one outside the President of the Republic, or rather not the President of the Republic, excuse me, I was wrong. It was a mistake what was heard before. Obviously, Immunities also have a place of roll-call votes, since they are with our signature, as are all of which are reproached by the programme statements. There isn't, what do we do? Those who had remained as secret ballots for the Bureau, why have they remained? Why is that? We call it an exception and put it in the rule that the House operates with open votes. That's what this is about. Why the rest of the theory and the search around this matter? I think it is a correct adjustment that is being made. I shall refer to the issue of the number of Vice-Presidents. I told you a few things now about the Eight Party House, etc. If we look at both the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure with regard to the Members' presence - and indeed the Rules of Procedure - we see that the Member from the House is elected to the Bureau by universal suffrage only if he is reproached and downgraded, i.e. if the power of his party is reduced and changed. It happens all the time, you see it. Who is third, fourth, fifth, sixth party, is already changing and taking place throughout the four sessions. It is not possible to change the Bureau, to restore people, to add other colleagues, to remove them. That's what this is about. So we're going to an arrangement now completely new. In other words, it is a fundamental change in the Rules of Procedure, as has been identified by the recommendations. We leave the element 'who is the government?'. It was one-party, so it was the Rules of Procedure. So the government has the President and the three Vice-Presidents and the opposition forces have had Vice-Presidents. That was the Rules of Procedure, because that was how it worked for forty years. For a few years we have had other realities. And we are going to change radically, and we say that the Bureau will be representatives of all parties unless they are voted on by the House. There's no blocking clause in any party. It may, for one of the eight or twelve months after the end of the day or six parties in the vote, not have the necessary minimum number of votes and may not be represented. But that's different. We're going to a radical change in relation to this thing. There's no excuse for not doing it. I do not agree - and I would like to formulate it because the debate is public - with reference to the past and to the independent authorities that President Tragakis has done. Because I've lived the previous period, I know. I believe it is very important that this House at its first session managed to reach five independent authorities with six-year terms and with four-fifths of the eighth-party parliament. It is institutional support, and it is not because of the fact that in the past, in my opinion, the parties did not respond to it. There was one - in my opinion, again - incomplete effort in this direction. I'm not saying anything different, something else. I believe that perhaps even through the experience of those years the political forces have been able to deal with this issue today. I would also like to talk about the subject of the reports and the functioning of the committees. On the basis of these two very correct articles - which I understand are unanimous in relation to the Court of Auditors' reports, the central report and the individual reports which have both the conclusions and the proposals for specific areas of public finances - which have now entered, I would like to tell you what experience I believe is common to all of us and which we should make use of. Each year reports come from independent authorities, from large public authorities, which are either new or older, etc. For example, the other Saturday, I think, will come the Governor of the Bank of Greece to give me the report. It's a crowd of them. There are over thirty-five of those who bring their services reports, individual reports, etc. We need to leave the standard where we say 'all right someday to set a date with the Committee on Institutions and Transparency in order to have a hearing on the report'. There's a wealth in there. Right, wrong, it doesn't matter. It's a matter of political opinion. Alas! But there is wealth there, there is experience in the field of policies on all these issues, and we should start with this amendment of the Rules of Procedure - so I say that it is very important that the principle that has been made with the two articles of the Rules of Procedure with regard to the Court of Auditors - that reports from all these authorities go either to the Standing Committees or to the Special Committees of the Parliament and that it should be debated so that this experience can spread. Also, there should be comments and changes to be made and goals put in place and there should be an experience of all Members of Parliament on things that most of us have no idea. I personally am of great interest when they give me the reports or even see their summaries. We don't know. We do not take this experience into the process of how we then legislate or how we get in here. I think this is very important and can greatly upgrade our operation. With regard to legislative improvements, which have been objected to, it is clear that at various times there have been legislative improvements which are small or larger, whole bills or which are not on the substance of the article in question and others. It is not possible, precisely because there is no precise description of the notion of 'legislative improvement' - and in the Constitution there is also the possibility for the Member to have a parliamentary amendment within the House - which is why you are making regulations - which is not described - but which we know that their limits are too flexible - to make a regulatory procedure and to say that there will be a possibility of applying for unconstitutionality and so on. However, what may certainly exist is that there is a stricter - I accept that - and this is a matter for the Bureau and for the President-in-Office - and the legislative improvements actually correspond to the letter and the spirit of amendment, regulation - and not only of verbality, often more goes into an article, but that is what it is - and that is what it is about to stop. In other words, it is not called "legislative improvement" that further articles come, how much more bills are being drafted. There is a political issue directly and these should be raised by both the Bureau and the executive and debated, but not on the basis of the possible unconstitutionality, but as a political issue, which poses a problem. I should like to close, and I am sorry that I have longed, on the subject of the staff of the Scientific Committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u111	Mr President, a provision can come and be a constitutional one. With legislative improvement, however, it can become an anti-constitutional. What's gonna happen? I'm not talking about an amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u112	Yes, sir. Perhaps you did not understand, Mr Athanasios, because you were not in the long discussions we had in committees, that, if unconstitutional issues arise, we will consider the amendments...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u113	I am not talking about an amendment, but about a legislative improvement.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u114	I get it! If it's possible I don't understand what you said. So here's the answer. The amendments will be considered as a whole before the final vote, in relation to possible objections to anti-constitutionality. In other words, in a specific procedure, and after the process has evolved, there will also be the specific round that is being carried out by parliamentarians or those with this duty. That's where the legislature is now over. In other words, whatever legal systems exist in the course of the debate will have entered the articles in question. So when this possible specific examination - and this is the first time that we have put it - is the unconstitutionality of the amendments, whatever is to be incorporated, incorporated and, if necessary, taken into account in the applicant's arguments, more unconstitutional or that character will have been removed. It helps, in other words, that we are going to this process and there is no ad hoc - and, by way of amendment, during the general debate - an additional anti-constitutional procedure. I believe that in applying this thing will help.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u115	Mr President, may I interrupt for a moment?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u116	Yes, Mr. Tragakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u117	Because I have raised this issue, I will fully agree with what you have said. Legislative improvements, because they are not mentioned anywhere, should be legislative improvements. Legal improvement is a verbal correction or a editorial correction. So what comes as a legislative improvement, without any verbal correction or editorial correction, is completely in agreement with you, cannot be accepted. You said that it was up to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u118	Yeah. I said that it should be pointed out, so that some political explanations and as a political issue are given. It's not a technical matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u119	I'm sorry to interrupt you, Mr. President. It is always noted by the parties, but it is not accepted by the ministers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u120	It must now be emphatically pointed out. To close with the issue of the Scientific Committee, for which a lot of discussion has taken place. Here or there is a misunderstanding or I have not understood the dimension of this debate. None of us, regardless of when he became a MP - whether he became in 2012, 2015, 2009, 2008, the President in 1975 or comes from virginity is part and continuation of his party, the tradition of the operation of Parliament, etc. - He's now discovering some things. We are all obliged, as we have no legal ignorance, to know how this House has worked and how this House works. So that's not tons up. The tons, elsewhere! Has there been even a debate on recruitment in Parliament - wherever, not only in the Scientific Office - in plenary or in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure or in the Conference, or anywhere during the decades? Never! So study the special regulations that exist for everything. To study and appreciate the attitude we have taken and to which we have committed ourselves - they have already been renewed for those who have been IDDs twice since - and to study many things that concern this sector before talking about the possibility of not creating that impression. Is it possible to give an impression about the President of the Parliament, and this will not happen if the President decides and publishes the Scientific Council? Why? Does the President of the Scientific Council - who has our unreliable confidence and who, by specific terms and in certain ways, is the Chairman of the Scientific Council - have a higher presumption, while all the others can be either split, as has been said, or personal ruffetti? I don't accept that thing. It's a big mistake. Don't go on because the ground is slippery. It is not right, when together we are pursuing a very careful tactic and policy on these sensitive issues for Parliament, that the two or three of them should emerge - or it may be considered as not urgently from some - cases. Last time for three locations, the newspapers wrote for a week to equate situations involving hundreds, dozens of people. There is a hard effort and some need to know because they are involved. Those who spoke are not just parliamentarians. They also participate where an account is given for this thing and they know how the organograms were and how much effort is being made to get everyone to work. But not where there are five times more than the establishment plan says and who have been hired. So no one has left and no one is actually trying to go where they can. Everybody stay and work everywhere. When such a great effort is made, the rest implied and confronted only on a slippery path will lead for everyone, and for the parties. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Anastassios Kourakis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] There's still some excesses that'd been done. I'm too elastic in how I mention it. There are over-planned delegates to certain parties, for example, who do not count on their powers, as well as a number of other issues, such as security staff and other issues. Just because we have this policy - it is not a matter of tactics, we are in crisis, not to stay people without a job - we always try, in consultation with the parties, to make the arrangements that we need to make. The public bugs, when this comes to us, to give the impression that we're going to arrange some scientists, don't need it. I would like to inform you that the House can take twenty permanent, not third parties, officials during the Memorandum's consultation, on the basis of rule one by five. He hasn't taken. So let us see how we move on with these issues. I do not accept, however, that we should be under the blunt break of suspicions or reports or leaks that things are now happening - which let me tell you that they belonged to another world - which was done some years ago in Greece, in Greece, in the country in general, and which also concerned Parliament. It's not the House outside of society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u121	Thank you to the President of Parliament, Mr. Nikos Voutsi. Mr George Mavrotas, Parliamentary Representative from Potami, has the floor for five minutes. I don't know if time is enough for you, Mr. Black.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u122	Is there five minutes to be six, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u123	All right, let's make it six! Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u124	Thank you, Mr President. I'll be relatively brief as soon as possible. The Rules of Procedure of Parliament together with the Constitution are the most important texts of our parliamentary procedure and it is evolving, as is the circumstances. We are talking about these amendments today. In March we made three proposals for amendment as a river. The first and most important, in my opinion, concerned Article 101 on the procedure for amendments. As you know, the amendments, the parliamentary and ministerial bodies, are the great gangrene of our legislative work. Irrelevant, delayed and unspeakable amendments come against the coronary and legislate the landscape on extremely important issues. And well if they come from the Vice-Presidents, who have no other way of intervening in the various legislative texts. However, if they come from Members of the Chamber and from Ministers, they must be very difficult to justify. Any piece of legislation must go beyond the suffering of consultation, be discussed in committees, listen to bodies and thus optimise legislative work. The abuse made in the amendments is falsifying and distorting this legislative work. We also have cases where many ministerial amendments are being baptized 'parliamentary' so that they can go unregulated. I do not hesitate to say that during the two and a half years of my parliamentary experience the delayed amendments are, I think, the coup d'état of the client state. The needless and urgent amendments should normally only be made in urgent cases. Unfortunately, however, they are abused and exploited. That is why we proposed an amendment to paragraph 6 of Article 101 in March, saying that disputes as to whether the amendment relates to the main object of the draft law and whether its late submission is justified on grounds of urgency are submitted by the relevant Minister or in writing by 1/10 of the total number of Members. The decision, in order to accept an amendment which has been disputed, is taken by a majority of 3/5 of the Members present. In other words, we must accept with an increased majority the delayed, unreported and unregulated amendments so that there can be a cross-party consensus as to whether they are really urgent and must go in and not some night-to-night amendments can go wrong, which we have seen is particularly the case with regard to education and training. Furthermore, it ensures that no genuinely necessary and urgent amendments will be rejected. So this provision must be considered and incorporated into the Rules of Procedure at a later stage. We have also made a proposal for the obligation to vote electronically. Besides, we're in the 21st century. Those who have participated in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe also see how easily and quickly things are done by electronic vote. We all agree here or almost all of us, but it's not going any further. Previously, Mr Lykoudi, our rapporteur, said a few things about the Rules of Procedure. So I'd like to fill in someone. I begin with the subject of the roll-call vote for the President and Vice-Presidents. I was not in the committee to hear the argument about this. However, the rapporteur's report says 'as it does in foreign parliaments' and that this reinforces transparency. The principle of transparency, however, let me say that it refers more to the action and functioning of the institutions, in this case the Bureau of Parliament, and not so much to the election of members and institutions. The first part of the reasoning, which says that it is done abroad, is not accurate, because the rule in European countries is the secret ballot. In the United Kingdom, which is a Member State of reference in relation to parliament, the President is elected by secret ballot, as is also the case in the European Parliament. I fear that the roll-call vote on persons will create more topics than it will resolve, because inevitably it will embody acceptance or non-acceptance for a full term. Another is the position of the Member, who must be clear and transparent, in the bills and in the choice of persons who will play their part within the Bureau of Parliament. It also imposes a party discipline very strongly. The same goes for the Vice-Presidents. As far as Article 12 is concerned, with the clarification or correction of votes, Mr Lykoudi also said our reservations. With regard to Article 16, which concerns the abolition of certain dates and time limits, I am concerned that, because the procedures are not in place, we are effectively abolishing them. In other words, it is a legalisation of parliamentary mistributoryism. With regard to Rule 22, on the recruitment of scientists, to which the President referred earlier, let me say that what we are asking here is that these should be done through open procedures. We don't know how it happened in the past, either in the recent or in the late, but we have to pull a line and change a page. We are talking about an open call of interest, for an open contract period - they may not be three years, they may be two-year, one-year, that is to say, always with the needs that exist in the Scientific Council - and the recruitment procedures may be almost the same. It's a little oxymomile, too. We cannot, in roll-call votes, talk about transparency and the recruitment of staff to stop transparency. Finally, I would like to add something - because the time is running out, Mr President, yet another thirty seconds - is the following. The previous Members have also referred to keeping Members' speaking time. If necessary, let us increase the time. But we must be strict and have at most one to two minutes tolerance. It respects the others and this House. We may get a little groggy at first, but then, I think, we'll get used to it and it'll be better for everyone. The House must be the example of respecting the procedures and the laws and not being a clear vine. Since I said these, allow me, because the President is here as well, to say my wish. Since we are talking about the Rules of Procedure of the House, I shall say something about the functioning of the House building. We must finally do something about smoking in the House, Mr President, and I would ask you to see it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u125	Thank you, George Mavrota, Parliamentary spokesman from the Potami. We will close the meeting with Mr Antonis Syrigos, SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, who has the floor for five minutes. Here, Mr. Syrigos, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u126	I shall speak from my position, Mr President, because I shall speak very little and will not make use of the rights of the parliamentary representative. I am in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. Mr President, because a great deal has been said and there has also been a detailed position by the President of this House on the issues, I would like to distinguish some of the articles that we are discussing and which, in my view, offer the opportunities we all want in terms of improving and restructuring the Rules of Procedure of the House on the better. These articles are: First of all, Rule 5, which relates essentially to the competence of the Conference of Presidents to the Committees, but which can be done without prejudice to the Rules of Procedure of the House. In this sense, if there are any fears or doubts or objections, I think they can be put to rest through it. Secondly, Article 7 on information for the Standing Committees by the Court of Auditors. Enlargement of the audience is a matter of witnessing for many, and we live with it. This enlargement, if it remains in this context and if it is also stressed by all those who are heard by the committee, whether by living or by others who wish to do so - and this is important for them to do so - may also make it possible to have a result that improves the situation, because there are indeed problems. Also important is Article 9, for the term of office of the Permanent Special Committees, but also Article 13, concerning the procedure for the immunity of a Member of Parliament, the issue of unconstitutionality, Article 15, which is also introduced for the amendments. I also consider it important to add to Rule 18, which adds to Rule 124 of the Rules of Procedure the question with request for documents. Finally, it is also important to define what is the Minister's coma, which prevents him from coming. It is important that this definition exists. Let me conclude by saying that the vileness of the conversations, as long as you follow them, is to take from those who have spoken, to compose something. What I have gathered - and I am thinking about it at the meeting, I would like to close with it and will be allowed by my fellow Members, because my reference to the faces is well-meaning and not badly-meaning - from the position, for example, of Mr Lykoudis, who raised two essential issues. One is generality, when we often express opinions on issues or objections or arguments, but on matters which are not related to the subject of the debate. This, you know, is very important, not only to respect Parliament's Rules of Procedure, but, if I, which I consider to be five issues, which are not related to the subject, I very seriously introduce them to the debate here, it is like degrading them. It is like discussing an important issue in my opinion on the occasion. This is very important. The second question is indeed the question that arises from the relationship between legislation and the circumstances. It is an issue that we are experiencing, that is to say, we are living it, but it can give us concern and create a debate which is also fruitful. I conclude by saying that a fruitful contribution was the debate at the level of arguments by Mr Papatheodorou and Mr Pafile on issues relating to the functioning of Members and parties. This, however, as an object, because the party is the core today, as is the constitutional order of the constitution, it is something that can be discussed, but it needs a deeper debate and cannot be done superficially or because it is often put forward. But that is right. We are also staying in what Mr Dritsa said, that they are positive - and of course they are positive - the changes and steps we take in the Rules of Procedure of the House. It is not enough, as has been said, to do more. I shall end with Mr Tragakis, who remembrancesly said that a provision needs to be found that requires the application of others. I'd say it's a transfer of Royde's saying that we've got a lot of laws, but there's one left who's gonna demand the application of everyone. I believe that this also raises a question of mentality and culture and a question of the fact that there are a lot of them, but for them to work, we ourselves have to respect them. It is the vis vitalis for the application of laws and regulations, which is not reflected. It's a matter of option more than anyone. I believe that all these existing amendments are being put on the table and I believe that we can go further with the debate and with the consensus - not just that we agree, but with a consensus that has tangible results, that is what I want to say - to move on to other measures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u127	Thank you to SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative Mr. Syrgos. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is adjourned, in accordance with Rule 76 of the Constitution and Rule 118 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, on the proposal: "To amend the Rules of Procedure of the House - Part Parliamentary Party (Law 106/A'/24.6.1987) and Part II (Law 51/A'/10.4.1997), as applicable". Does this House accept the proposal in principle?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u128	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u129	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u130	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u131	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u132	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u133	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u134	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u135	The proposal, therefore, to amend the Rules of Procedure of the House - Part Parliamentary (Law 106/A'24.6.1987) and Part II (Law 51/A'10.4.1997), as in force, was accepted by a majority in principle. We are entering the motion for a resolution. Their vote will be taken separately. Does this House accept Rule 1 of the proposal as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u136	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u137	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u138	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u139	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u140	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u141	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u142	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u143	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u144	Article 1 of the proposal was therefore accepted as it is by a majority. Can Article 2 of the proposal be accepted as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u145	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u146	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u147	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u148	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u149	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u150	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u151	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u152	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u153	Article 2 of the proposal was therefore accepted as it is by a majority. Can Article 3 of the proposal be accepted as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u154	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u155	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u156	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u157	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u158	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u159	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u160	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u161	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u162	Article 3 of the proposal was therefore accepted as it is by a majority. Can Article 4 of the proposal be accepted as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u163	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u164	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u165	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u166	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u167	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u168	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u169	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u170	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u171	Article 4 of the proposal was therefore accepted as it is by a majority. Can Article 5 of the proposal be accepted as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u172	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u173	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u174	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u175	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u176	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u177	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u178	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u179	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u180	So Article 5 of the proposal was accepted as it is by a majority. Does this House accept Rule 6 of the proposal as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u181	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u182	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u183	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u184	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u185	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u186	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u187	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u188	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u189	So Article 6 of the proposal was accepted as it is by a majority. Does this House accept Rule 7 of the proposal as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u190	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u191	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u192	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u193	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u194	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u195	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u196	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u197	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u198	So Article 7 of the proposal was accepted as it is by a majority. Can Article 8 of the proposal be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u199	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u200	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u201	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u202	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u203	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u204	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u205	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u206	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u207	So Article 8 of the proposal was accepted as it is by a majority. Does the House agree that Article 9 of the proposal is adopted as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u208	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u209	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u210	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u211	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u212	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u213	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u214	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u215	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u216	So Article 9 of the proposal was accepted as it is by a majority. Does this House accept Rule 10 of the proposal as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u217	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u218	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u219	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u220	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u221	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u222	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u223	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u224	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u225	So Article 10 of the proposal was accepted as it is by a majority. Does this House accept Rule 11 of the proposal as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u226	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u227	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u228	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u229	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u230	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u231	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u232	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u233	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u234	So Article 11 of the proposal was accepted as it is by a majority. Does this House accept Rule 12 of the proposal as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u235	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u236	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u237	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u238	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u239	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u240	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u241	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u242	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u243	Article 12 of the proposal was therefore accepted as it is by a majority. Does this House accept Rule 13 of the proposal as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u244	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u245	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u246	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u247	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u248	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u249	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u250	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u251	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u252	Article 13 of the proposal was therefore accepted as it is by a majority. Does this House accept Rule 14 of the proposal as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u253	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u254	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u255	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u256	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u257	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u258	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u259	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u260	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u261	So Article 14 of the proposal was accepted as it is by a majority. Does this House accept Rule 15 of the proposal as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u262	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u263	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u264	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u265	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u266	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u267	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u268	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u269	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u270	So Article 15 of the proposal was accepted as it is by a majority. Does this House accept Rule 16 of the proposal as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u271	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u272	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u273	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u274	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u275	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u276	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u277	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u278	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u279	So Article 16 of the proposal was accepted as it is by a majority. Does this House accept Rule 17 of the proposal as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u280	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u281	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u282	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u283	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u284	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u285	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u286	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u287	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u288	Article 17 of the proposal was therefore accepted as it is by a majority. Does this House accept Rule 18 of the proposal as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u289	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u290	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u291	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u292	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u293	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u294	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u295	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u296	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u297	Article 18 of the proposal was therefore accepted as it is by a majority. Does this House accept Rule 19 of the proposal as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u298	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u299	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u300	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u301	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u302	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u303	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u304	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u305	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u306	So Article 19 of the proposal was accepted as it is by a majority. Does this House accept Rule 20 of the proposal as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u307	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u308	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u309	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u310	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u311	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u312	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u313	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u314	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u315	So Article 20 of the proposal was accepted as it is by a majority. Does this House accept Rule 21 of the proposal as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u316	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u317	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u318	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u319	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u320	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u321	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u322	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u323	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u324	So Article 21 of the proposal was accepted as it is by a majority. Will Rule 22 of the proposal be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u325	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u326	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u327	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u328	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u329	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u330	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u331	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u332	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u333	Article 22 of the proposal was therefore accepted as it is by a majority. Does this House accept Rule 23 of the proposal as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u334	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u335	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u336	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u337	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u338	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u339	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u340	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u341	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u342	So Article 23 of the proposal was accepted as it is by a majority. Does this House accept Rule 24 of the proposal as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u343	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u344	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u345	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u346	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u347	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u348	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u349	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u350	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u351	So Article 24 of the proposal was accepted as it is by a majority. Does this House accept Rule 25 of the proposal as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u352	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u353	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u354	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u355	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u356	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u357	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u358	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u359	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u360	So Article 25 of the proposal was accepted as it is by a majority. We are entering the vote of the nominee. Asked by this House: Is the farewell article of the proposal accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u361	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u362	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u363	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u364	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u365	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u366	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u367	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u368	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u369	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. Consequently, the proposal by the President of Parliament: "To amend provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament - Part Parliamentary Party (FO 106/A'/24.6.1987) and Part II (FO 51/A'/10.4.1997) as in force", was accepted in principle and on articles. We shall now vote on the proposal as a whole. Does this House also accept the proposal as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u370	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u371	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u372	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u373	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u374	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u375	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u376	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u377	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u378	The proposal was accepted by a majority. Consequently, the proposal by the President of Parliament: 'To amend provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament - Part Parliamentary Party (FO 106/A'/24.6.1987) and Part II (FO 51/A'/10.4.1997), as in force', was accepted by a majority in principle, Articles and all of them, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u379	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as regards the vote on the above motion by the President of this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u380	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-22-S1-commons.u381	With the consent of the House at 15.15 p.m. the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday, 23 June 2017, at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny: (a) the debate on topical questions; and (b) the debate on no 28/20/19-5-2017 a topical question for Members of the New Democracy to the Minister for Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, on the lack of a plan and the failure to take action on the digital transformation of Greece.
