ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We are on our way to the debate on FAMILY's questions. First we will discuss the seventh under No. 152/24-10-2017 topical question for the first cycle of MP in Thessaloniki, Mr.Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The contribution of Mr. EC 12-1975, point 2.1.78. Bull. EC 12-1975. Bull. Mr. Saridis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Minister, with a provision of Law 128/1975, there was then a percentage charge on all types of consumer, housing and business loans. The purpose of this contribution, which was borne exclusively by borrowers, was to create a fund through which the Government could finance or grant the export efforts of Greek companies. However, since then, Minister, when we entered the European family, within the European Union, this law - and under the law of the European Union - should not, in fact, have been the case. However, this has continued. And yet, we have reached this point, that an account has been reported to the Central Bank of Greece, through which each government's money, any government is channelling them where it actually considers it necessary. In view of the above, Minister, you ask: to a greater extent the revenues from the contribution of L.128/1975 to the years 2015-2016, which you are the government - and I ask you, why are you government - and where have you been or are you planning to channel these from your government? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u3	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u4	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague, for the question. Things are like you said. With L.4336/2015 there was a change in where this money could go. It's not right, it's the Minister of Finance's decision. They are subsidised exclusively by natural disasters and terrorist acts. As you requested, I will tell you some examples: in 2015 we had 44 million for repatriated housing, 12 million for firefighting, 5 million for earthquakes, but also sums for floods, for restoration of preserved buildings. In total, over 65 million were committed. Similarly, a little less than twice as much money was given in 2017, 110 million. I would mention, for example, 18 million for firefighters, 8 million for earthquakes, 56 million for the housing of repatriated people. However, there are many other relevant decisions that you can see on the Internet so that we do not get tired of this House. You will see other examples where this money has gone. According to the Bank of Greece, the contributions for 2015 and 2016 amounted to approximately 436 million and 416 million respectively. As you can see, we always want to leave a cabotage, not spend all the money, because there can be a big episode of either floods or earthquakes. So I think this is how the 2015 law works relatively well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u5	Mr. Saridis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, I am not going to reason because there is, in fact, this contribution, which should not exist. I want you to remember, please, what a financial situation our country is in. We're not chasing witches, you know that. And I have nothing personal against you. That's for granted. For my part, however, as a Member of the European Parliament, I have to bother you to know where each euro of the Greek taxpayer is going. On the other hand, as the Minister for Finance, you are obliged to ensure that a euro is not lost. With this in mind, a piece of paper came into my possession - your question has been made two months ago - five, six days ago. The paper is from the General Accounting Office of the State and is addressed to the Financial Policy Directorate, Special Financing Department. What does that paper say? In reply to the above related information that has been sent to our email service requesting the income number code in which the revenues of the special account under Law 128/75 are entered, we inform you that the product of this account is monitored by the Bank of Greece, but is not an income of the State budget and thus does not show an income code. Minister, what do you have to say about this? What's the matter in general? Is this or isn't that a tax? Because on the basis of this paper, if it is not an income, it should not be a tax. Since it is not a State budget tax, then it is certain that it does not have an income code. How can we manage money without having an income code? This paper, Mr President, will be tabled in the Minutes for the Minister to know. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Saridis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I would therefore like to say that if it is not a bad tax, it is taken by the banks. The banks are outlawing. The Greek Government's responsibility to continue to illegalize the banks is too great. We have already made three recapitalisations of banks and the Greek citizens must know at any time where their money is going, and much more when this contribution should not exist. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u7	Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u8	Thank you again, Mr Colleague. I do not think there is any disagreement between us and it is clear that you have not only a right, but you also have an obligation to ask such questions. The understanding I have is that it's a contribution. How the General Accounting Office counts it within national accounting is a different thing. There's no opacity here, and that's why I told you, not just for brief reasons, that you can see exactly where this money is spent on our Ministry's website. I therefore think that you should not confuse what this money is - if it is a tax or a levy - with how they are spent and how they are recorded in national accounts. I can confirm that this money is fully aware that it's money they have to catch a place. That is why I told you that we are spending them on the examples I mentioned, and that is why I also said that we have a cabotage, so that we can be ready at every moment, so that we can spend this money on - which, of course, neither you nor I wish - for another disaster that may occur. I tell you that I will see this paper and can come back with either a written question or as you judge, to tell you exactly how it is recorded within national accounts.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u9	I'll come back.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u10	But I think that is a technical matter. What you are interested in and the people who support you, and what concerns the criticism you are making or the control you are making in the government is whether this money is spent where it is spent and if it is well spent where it is spent. I think that after the 1975 Act, as you said in your introductory speech, it cannot go to support Greek businesses. I think this conclusion with the 2015 Act was a good compromise, and I think that when you look at the Internet and all the data, you will also be convinced that you are actually going where they should go with the 2015 Act. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Minister. We are going to the second with number 113/23-10-2017 a top-level question from the New Democracy MP, Athanasios Davakis, to the Minister of National Defence, on "Suspending the operation of newcomers training centres". Mr. Davakis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. With the question that we are coming to raise today, by asking the political leadership of the Ministry of National Defence, we are calling for a position on a periphery that has been developed for almost a year for the abolition of the centres for the training of recruits. It changes the whole system, as we see from what is both on the Internet and the military press and, more generally, in the local communities hosting these centres. I would like a clear and authentic position in the political leadership of the Ministry of National Defence on this given. I believe that the questions that we can quote are important, such as, for example, what the case of the national defence, of the soldiers, has been won by the transfer of training centres to camps of pretext, or what economic potential arises or what economic sizes the budget of the Ministry of National Defence will benefit from the closure of camps which so far welcome the recruits. I would like the Minister's replies, because this will better enlighten both the futures and the local communities hosting training centres and all of us dealing with national defence issues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u13	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. The honourable Member has been a State Secretary for National Defence, and indeed with responsibility for these training centres. I read some of the answers to the questions of parliamentary scrutiny, which he signed in the past, and they were one of the strong advocates of fundamental changes in the system of classification and of training for recruits, during the Ministerial term. But at the end of the day there were no changes. So on the substance of the matter, Mr Colleague, I would like to describe the situation we have received, which prevails: tens of camps throughout the country, hundreds of kilometres away from the orientation of the country's defence and the main threat. This is a reality that the present government has been called upon to manage and make corrective changes, which will require very clear reorganisation of camps and groupings in order to achieve efficiency, reduce costs and finally escape local micro-political interests, seeking the major one, which is to ensure the best conditions for the defence of the country and to serve the interests of the Greek people. So let us say that the proposals and choices are first, not the government, but the staff. The operation of the recruit training centres, which is part of the general reorganisation of the Armed Forces, is currently under way. From nowhere until now, there has been no suspension of operation, as the question has been asked, or as some publications say. As far as the Navy and the Air Force are concerned, you know very well that there is now a newcomer training centre for each Weapons. The Mississippi Army has the largest number of training centres for newcomers and entrants. At the present time, the Ministry of National Defence in cooperation with the OHIM and the OHIM aiming at more rational management of the resources allocated, which in particular in previous years had been limited by reason of the financial situation, shall review from zero the functioning of the existing structures, units and services of the Army. In this context, we are reviewing the full reorganisation of the operation and disposal of existing recruit training centres, without final decisions having been taken so far. We are reviewing the rational management of the funds allocated under the financial constraints, the proper planning of spatial planning and the creation of multi-powered camps with great capacity, appropriate training and military infrastructure to reduce the operating costs of the CENs and to improve military conditions. We are considering the possibility of supporting the CENTs from large roads to reduce the cost of moving new recruits. Of course, this costs both the Army and their families. At the same time, we are considering the possibility of health coverage of probies by the presence of large military sanitary units near the training centres. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. The distribution of new recruits invited to each CEN recommends the performance of classes per year and an ESS in relation to the pursuit of a reduction in the cost of retraining. Finally, the GES, according to the needs and directions of the hierarchy, examines the issues relating to the upgrading of the training provided for the recruits. It's a bit of a term of office. We are looking at this time of retreat training to incorporate him into his military service in relation to his term of office.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Davakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr President. The closure of the Minister who did not read was more substantial than what he read and for which I will certainly not disagree. I simply wish to exchange a productive debate with some questions that I would like to ask about the possibility of closing camps. The first question, which arises, is that the existing units of the recruit training centres, the CENs, have infrastructure and spaces and all this band, which can welcome a citizen, who will go with his backpack as a citizen to present and wear the uniform and become a soldier, soldier. In other words, it is more modest to transfer the citizen to a centre, not to the pretext, not to the front area - if you like - of our border line from Evros, the islands to Crete. As a result of this, there is a comparative advantage, which is not the case if, as originally said, the entrepreneur, the gunner in the overlap, is present. That is why you should see this, Minister. Also, with regard to issues relating to the general strategic planning of staff, the staff must clearly decide. We must understand, however, that all of this compose a reality which must also have the political decision. I think that what matters more than any other option is the interests of the Armed Forces, given the reduced term of office, as you have said. The term of office was reduced in 2009 to the Government of New Democracy. And I wouldn't say that the nine-month term has benefited something. In any case, let us not rethink any further reduction in the term of office. Anyone who reduces his term of office doesn't look good to him politically. So I would say that what we need to see is the design that you mentioned, Minister. You need to see it. The philology of closing training centres must be stopped. Because any future design made in some other centres will result in you want manning. What manpower, when the design - from what we have been informed - is to go to a centre of pre-covering, but in which probies will be located in a particular unit of the large formation that will be presented? So we will not have more manning, because these people will not even be able to do services. They won't be sworn, they won't be trained yet. So the entire surrounding atmosphere of the training centre, the CEN of Sparta, will be transferred to the pretext. He's not winning anything. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, a slight tolerance, because I did not exhaust it. So I'd say you should see it again. They may need specific sections. When I was a Undersecretary, what they closed was some camps that were inactive, not training centres. We didn't close training centers. We closed several camps of northern Greece, which did not really have any particular reason to exist on the basis of a defensive dogma, which was under way and executed. From there on, you need to see it again. I believe that the CENs have significant advantages, beyond the great institutional memory - I think you understand what I say - that have with local societies, not with the micro-policy you want to say. Because now with the convenience of distances and milestones with the new roads, we are not talking about this. But we are talking about an institutional memory, about infrastructure. The training centre of Sparta has large facilities for drivers and cooks and for bakers, as well as other centres in the Greek region, mainly the Peloponnese. And I think that there will be nothing to gain from the army, the Armed Forces, if training centres are transferred and doing the same work in the pretext, at a critical phase of geostrategics - if you like - which is the pretext they have made in the relocations, especially in training centres. That's all and thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u17	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u18	Let me remind you that they've closed down, like the Arta's.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u19	Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u20	So they had closed down training centres.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u21	Other than Arta?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u22	Arta's. I told you one example.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u23	No one else. This has been done with the agreement of the local community.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u24	The Minister has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u25	Mr. Colleague, the local community does and wants to have one more camp. And I understand you too as a colleague in this region that you are serving and seeking the maintenance of the CEN. However, if we consider this to be the case according to what the local society is asking for and not with the needs of the country's defence, we will once again decide wrong. So I will tell you that the redesign is being done and not only is it about training centres, but it is about the entire structure of the Armed Forces, it is about the Special Forces, it is about ASEAN, it is about new structures that now need to exist. We'll talk about them. The proposals will come from the staff and we will decide. I will tell you, however, that because there is no doubt that we, too, have our own sensitivities in relation to local communities, which rely on camps, it is better to have other activities, which will host the services of the Armed Forces and help local communities, rather than to maintain new recruit training centres only so that we do not upset the citizens of a region. The soldiers will have better education and, as you say, they may not serve and keep watch before they are sworn, but to adapt to an area in which they will serve, facilitate much more, because you know that there is a time to adjust the soldiers to the units that go after their ranking and a long period of time that they are lost. I will be able to tell you the changes towards the end of the year or at the beginning of the new year. However, no change regarding the CENs will exist before the 2nd series of 2018, i.e. before March 2018. And all that will be done with certainty. There will be about twenty probie reception centres, from what is planned up to now, which will be in large units, hospitals next door and meeting all the needs of our country's defence. As far as northern Greece is concerned, I would like to say that there is a great deal of effort going on, because it has indeed been closed enough there, with the new, modern structure of the National Guard, to allow prisoners, particularly in-house prisoners, near the border with forces of the National Guard. Already the day before yesterday in the Parade in Thessaloniki, as you saw, but also throughout Greece, there were a thousand five hundred national guards who paraded. I would like to say to you that the institution of the Year of National Guard, but also of the Elders, which will continue and greatly improve the possibilities of raising our country.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u26	We continue with the eighth question under the number 93/17-10-2017 topical question by MP Carditsas of New Democracy Mr. Konstantinos Tsiaras to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "The Institutional stumbling of the Minister of National Defence". Mr. Chiara, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, on 25 September, about a month ago, during a debate in the plenary on the setting-up of a committee of inquiry, and while there was a very big debate on an issue concerning how the money was paid for your stay in a hotel in London, you claimed that this payment was made by credit card and indeed, without any particular pressure, shortly before the end of your speech, you presented in plenary the copy of the credit card with which you paid for your stay in a particular hotel in the United Kingdom. It's really worth wondering why you did it. I say this because a few days later it turned out that you did not pay with your credit card, but with cash. That is what I realise that it raises a huge issue with you, because while you argued for that very reason or that very reason, in front of the National Representation, to three hundred colleagues, in front of the Prime Minister himself, it proved to be not real shortly after that. For me - and I think for all Members - no Minister has the right and the opportunity from the Step of the National Representation, from wherever I would say to you, not to tell the truth, to lie so self-proofly, which in a second or third year they are extorting and have nothing to do with reality. This, of course, if we want to see it in any way, is a huge institutional force. My view is that you could very easily revise, say that you made a mistake or apologise because you did not understand it well, but to give answers such as the one you tried to give Mr Loverdos, if I remember well, a few days later, in the Committee on National Defence and Foreign Affairs, which you said we should look at the Minutes - because that is exactly what I did - you realise that it is neither an excuse nor a reason nor much more than a sensible attitude of the Minister of National Defence to the House of the Greek Parliament. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would ask you to give me an answer on this, but not...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u28	Let the Minister give it and you'll tell the rest in your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u29	...response to evade reality, but to deal with this very reality that I mentioned earlier.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u30	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u31	Mr Chiara, this is the second time you have tabled your question and I have not expected it from you, because in your parliamentary ethos it has so far been inconsistent with such practices and particularly with references to personal matters. But I wanted to reply to you, because - unfortunately for you - the Greek Police Extortion Corps has been dealt with and within the next few days you will see publishers, you will see arms dealers and colleagues involved in this story, acting as organs for specific criminal organisations. However, because you insist and I want to give you a chance to repack, I will present you with exactly what I have submitted, with the codes, but at the previous session of the House, showing that I charged my card to make the booking at the hotel, i.e. I paid it from my pocket, I did not charge the Greek State. I paid my stay and my wife, I charged my card to the company "BOOKINGS.COM". Looks like the charge and I give you the confirmation number, 1564826827, and the pin to get in and manage my reservation. I also give you the pin, Mr Tsiara, to ask for a public'sorry' - because the card was actually charged, the same card was filed at the hotel with my arrival and during my payment - using a subtle personal proof for parliamentary control for Parliament. I hope it doesn't happen to you that they're after you from behind and illegally taking such evidence and finding them in the newspapers! You are currently accepting that a Member of Parliament may be watched by various types of a newspaper, who may intercept without his permission the proof, because he paid for something. You obviously come and do it to legitimize the newspaper. I am therefore tabling this in the House. [[At this point the Minister of National Defence - President of the Independent Greeks presents the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So I am telling you clearly: my card has been charged, as I have said in the House. My card was given to the hotel to pay for my stay. The amount that emerged was an amount that was available in cash, because, as you know, it is possible for me and my wife to have with it EUR 2 000 - EUR 2 000 - my wife, EUR 4,000 - and so I have paid off my stay in cash. This proof was then found headlines in a newspaper. So because I have filed complaints and complaints, I give you an opportunity to apologize for the use of illegally acquired material by the criminal organisation within this House. I mean the proof I didn't give to the paper, but the paper intercepted. I'm sorry, too, because it's not false - and I'm filing you with the receipt - that I charged my card. I tell you, Mr President, that if you do not do so, I will be in a very difficult position to behave as against other colleagues who are performing contracts - and I say that this will prove to be very soon by the PPE - and I think you are following a contract as well. So ask for an apology, take the receipt, check with the pin my charge, see how the card was charged and how it was then paid. I did not ruin the Greek people's money. I paid out of my pocket! I would remind you that some other colleagues of mine when you were at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs would go with ambijiz and makeup abroad and pay the Greek State. Mrs. Dora Bakoyannis took with her to the UN Security Council a hundred and ten people, who stayed in 'Waldorf Astoria' and made receptions they charged to the Greek State. I went to London on a mission, paid from my pocket, charged my card and paid cash, which I had the opportunity to bring with me, and if you do not apologize, I will have to file proceedings against you for civil damage and for criminal prosecution in both Greece and London, because you say that I falsely said to the House that I used my card, and I did not use it - it is proof here - as you say, and I did not charge it while I charged it. I would therefore ask you to withdraw because you really have no reason to be together with criminal groups, arms dealers and various pimps. We have been colleagues since 1993.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u32	Clear. Mr. Tsiaras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u33	Minister, I would expect greater responsibility in your answer. I'm really sorry. I'm sorry about some of the descriptions you've assigned to me personally. Of course, all this is easy to prove and I do not need to worry or fear any of what you say. This is your favorite tactic. But that is another matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u34	Did I lie to the House, Mr. Chiara?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u35	Look, do you want me to read exactly what the Minutes say to get it over with? "I closed my room and paid for it with my card, which I submit because Mr. Georgiadis wanted to see it. I paid for it with my card. Here's the card to see it all. I paid it out of my pocket." You showed us your card. Minister, you're either doing what you don't understand or think you can make fun of anyone here. I'm sorry to say that. You forced me to raise the tons because you made personal references to me. I say this because not answering the substance and saying to me that there are several questions on the right and left, neither is it a responsibility nor a serious parliamentary response at the moment. And of course in this case I would also ask fellow Members how they can accept a minister who goes out to plenary and says: "I paid for that account with my card." I'm not going into any other conversation, you know. I will say nothing but what was said in the debate that day. I could say a thousand two, but that's not what I'm interested in. And immediately it turns out - I will not go into the logic of how it proved - after a few days that you did not tell the truth. You lied. This, Minister, is a huge issue and must at some point be in this room, in this Chamber, which is supposed to be the temple of democracy, which is supposed to be our democracy, which is protected and shielded by the presence, the word and the actions of the Greeks that our fellow citizens choose to be in this area, to prove both morality and decency and truth. If you just want to close our eyes to everything that's going on and say 'I'm definitely not the fault of myself, it's someone else who might want to think about anything for me', obviously we don't offer good services to Greek citizens. I'm sorry, but I would expect you, instead of asking me what you said, to apologise to the Greek Delegation, to the Minister who is next to you and I don't really know what he might feel by hearing that the Minister's colleague lied and now he's trying to throw this on the other side...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u36	Don't talk about everyone. Talk about yourself.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u37	Obviously, Minister. It's a rhetorical report.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u38	We don't have rhetorical reports in here. Please. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u39	You probably don't mind, but that's another matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u40	Please very much. Do I have to answer if I'm convinced? Mr President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u41	It's a rhetorical report. Let me finish. There's no question. There is no reason for me to open a debate with you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u42	No, Mr. Comrade. It wasn't a rhetorical report. You have addressed yourself personally now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u43	I repeat it was rhetorical.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u44	Understood.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u45	Isn't that allowed?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u46	There is no rhetoric when the Minister's position is discounted.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u47	However, Minister, in order to close and not stay in a reasonable repetition of what one might say, or whoever one should listen, I return the ball to you, and I say to you with great dignity and under the conditions imposed by the parliamentary procedure, the following: you should withdraw. You ask the Greek MPs and the Greek citizens for an apology. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] One cannot stifle the intelligence of Greek citizens. There is one issue here which is really serious and which concerns you. If you want to offset it with other realities or other practices, it is your right. But in this parliamentary procedure you are responsible for doing so.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u48	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u49	Mr President, it is clear that my card was charged with closing the room and I tabled both the confirmation number and the PIN. You can come in and see it. It's clear they've billed...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u50	I got it here.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u51	No, it's different. It's with the confirmation number and the PIN's running the reservation, that I charged my card when I went to the hotel. It is clear that I paid out of my pocket because your colleagues said that I paid from the public budget too! That's how TIMES wrote, why some gave them the post from here. So I'm telling you, I paid out of my pocket, like I said here, and I charged my hotel booking card. If you don't want to admit it publicly...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u52	I accept that as a start, but you said something else. You said you paid the card.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u53	If you accept it as a start, what did I tell you?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u54	Minister, you said you paid the card.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u55	I paid, I said, with my card and closed the room at the booking.com, I charged my card to the hotel and paid off from my pocket, because I had cash on me and I didn't want my card to get more than 2,000 euros and come here to pay for it. Do you understand that or don't you understand that?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u56	Sure. You said more in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u57	That's what I said. I paid my card at first, because you can't hang up in cash, Mr. Chiara. Now, because you have referred to some other kind of examples, I will tell you, Mr. Chiara, that you do not shave in the gypsy. Today you should apologise for Mr. Ausgakis in here. Indeed, because I with my wife, when we go abroad, I pay out of my pocket and my wife works and has "from now on", to look for the women who didn't enter the "from now on" and when they had a new friend, an old shipowner, they also left with an apartment from London! So, to explain, Mr. Chiara. Pick up and dismantle, then, as they try to lead to New Democracy some neo-fascist elements that you have gathered. Understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u58	Thank you. Now we will discuss the first with number 139/24-10-2017, the first question of the first cycle of MP Arcadia of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Georgios Papaliou to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on "Selecting Directors of the secondary schools of the Prefecture of Arcadia". Here, Mr. Papaliou, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Mr President. The question concerns the selection of directors of secondary schools in the Arcadia Prefecture. During the selection process, candidate directors - many of whom had already been managers - qualified and highly measurable molecules, were evaluated at grades that in themselves raise questions. It is apparent from the evaluation table that those who had measurable molecules above 15 were rated at 0,92 to 4.5 molecules and those who had measurable molecules below thirteen, scored 7 to 8 molecules during the interview. The order of the second candidate in fixed molecules, 18.5, was scored at 0.92 molecules. The fourth at steady molecules, 17.5 during the interview, was scored at 2.5 molecules. It's a fourth point from the end. Objections against measurable moleculosis were examined and rejected before the interview with what this implies and then identical objections from the same candidates appear to have been accepted, as shown in the final evaluation table. Furthermore, following the suspension of measurable molecules and the interview from the final evaluation table, it appears that measurable molecules have been removed in breach of any rule and principle and without the candidates having the opportunity to submit objections. The study of the valid assessment table shows that the appropriate molecules are added or removed during the interview in order to achieve the desired result. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. A comparison with the evaluation tables of other laws PES proves the truth. Arcadias PYSE is last in the correlation of measurable molecules with the rating during the interview, 0.63, and much different from the last one. There is a negative correlation and therefore a reversal of the pyramid. It is well known, Minister, that the way of oral assessment provides for a crisis for the candidate's contribution to educational work, personality and general formation. This method of evaluation also contains de facto subjectivity. However, this does not explain how it is possible for the candidate directors - many of them who have already served as directors - to score by 0,92, 2.5, 3,4, 3,8.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u60	You have a second, Mr. Papaliou.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u61	Of course, I'll be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u62	The protology to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u63	The oral score has affected the final result by overthrowing measurable scores.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u64	Mr. Gabroglou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Mr Papalieou, for the question, because I have an opportunity to explain exactly what the procedure is. At the end of March - early April we took the decision of the Council of State that the previous law was unconstitutional, that is, the law, which took into account and measured the outcome of the elections held in teachers' clubs for the candidate directors. It is a decision by which we have also publicly stated our difference and disagreement. But it is a decision that we as a state have to follow. In May, therefore, we passed a new law on the criteria for selecting directors. The criteria relate to a set of scientific criteria, the others relate to pre-services and experience and there is a third part, which is the interview. So we reinstated the interview to show that there must be this process, precisely because people are judged to enter the classroom and there must be as clear as possible. Interviews, as you know, have a sinful past. We restored it, considering that with the small percentage it has, it will play its part. In fact, in order for the teachers' association to be involved, we also thought that there could be a debate on the association of teachers and that the minutes to the committee should be taken into account in the classification. This is the process and it is important that, in other words, within suffocating time margins, which have no precedent, we managed to complete these procedures by August - ten and half thousand candidates - and before schools start being all appointed. So this process worked. And the objections that have become a whole for Greece are within the normal tensions that are made in these procedures. I want you to know that almost half of the candidates who have objective criteria - scientific and pre-service - were under 15, they were rated at the interview from 6 to 8. To those whose molecules were 15 or more and their scores were less than 5.5, they were 26%, about one quarter. I understand that there has been a situation that has made us somewhat surprised. I want it to be clear that interview committees are a 'particular principle', as it is called, where their decisions are not subject to hierarchical control. In our view, the Ministry cannot be retrospectively retrospective and say 'you have made a mistake in this case', 'you have not made a mistake in the other case'. Evidently, colleagues may take legal action. I understand that some people have appealed. But what I want to tell you is that we have respected - and we have to respect - independence. We therefore take into account what you say to us. We'll do our own procedures. And we'll see where we might end up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u66	Mr. Papaliou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u67	Minister, I do not disagree that the evaluation system chosen following the decision of the Council of State is positive. However, in order to be objective, meritable, fair and therefore effective, it must be applied in a way that does not raise questions about the final crisis. The fact that, when selecting managers in Arcadia several of the last ones became first and vice versa continues to raise reasonable questions. I am also not questioning - and I must stress this - that during this process, which is the subject of my current timely question, managers were selected in our law in a worthwhile and objective manner. However, this has not been applied in all cases. A comment for the interview. The interview must eliminate as much as possible the subjectivity, which in fact contains, and is linked to measurable moleculosis. The interview must be structured. Moreover, it cannot be linked and unaccounted for by the work of those who have been directors. Let me say one last thing, Minister. I do not want and should not go into the links in PYSE on the party side, although some well-known media have taken advantage of my timely question and, as is the case at all levels and in all areas, the government is seeking control over the educational area as well. The exact opposite happens. The government tries and imposes objectivity and merit. Let them look for partyism and micropolitics, not government and SYRIZA, the party that supports it. Besides, our place, Arcadia, is small. We all know faces and things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u68	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u69	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank you for your bold speech, because you have raised and implied a piece of the pathogens of public space. To agree on the following: First, by definition, no matter how structured, interviews involve an element of subjectivity. It is therefore very important that those who appoint the committees should have this maturity so as to minimise this subjective element. Secondly, you know from your experience, too, and I know from my experience that there are many people who may have very high scientific qualifications, but, when they are sitting next to each other or sitting within a committee which is an interview, they are not doing well at all. We have this very often, for example, in the educational world and, above all, as long as you go up. We have cases of excellent researchers historically, not only in our country. Newton was one of them who, while a leading investigator, had absolutely no communication with his students. So I say that many times such persons are not suitable for the work they apply for. That does not mean that there have been no problems in the direction of what you say. I told you. We've taken from the regional director all the possible minutes and we'll study them. The institutional capacity to intervene does not exist under the law, but of course also knowing details, because the minutes are being recorded, will help us for the future and not just us, but the Ministry of Education itself. Finally, I think you raised an extremely important issue with regard to the partisanisation of these procedures. I think that Greek society now, and in particular the academic community of all levels, is convinced that we have been the first party for too many decades, which is part of its policy DNA. Let me remind you what happened when we voted in this Chamber on the tertiary education law, which accused us of partying the university and so on. Of course, many democracies, many anti-rectorial elections and have broken this 'apostasy' that has been in existence for many years in terms of partyisation.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u70	All right, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u71	So I fully agree with you. I promise you, when we have additional information and when we process what we have been sent, I will let you know...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u72	Good, you've done it. Because you have a lot of questions, Minister, to make a little time savings. I am aware of the fact that the fifth under number 141/24-10-2017, a topical question for the second cycle of MP Xanthi of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Gregorios Stoyannides, to the Minister of Tourism, on the subject: "Following the licensed number of jobs in casinos", will not be discussed due to lack of competence. Immediately now we move to the debate of the fifth under number 150/24-10-2017 the topical question of the first cycle of MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the coverage of gaps in teachers in primary education. Mr. Delia, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, it is two months since schools, primary and kindergarten opened, and November is slowly entering and there are still shortages of teachers. We are, of course, talking about assistant teachers, since your government also continues its policy of anointing, mocking and afflicting every year thousands of teachers and students. If one compares the total number of alternate recruitments in primary education last year, which was more than fourteen thousand, with the total number of this year's recruitments, which is less than ten thousand, when the question was tabled - to put them 12 thousand, because in the meantime there have been additional recruitments - but now taking into account teachers' pensions this year, it is shown that the gaps in teachers are more than two thousand at the moment. Of course, these figures are the official figures of the Ministry, which is based on how it calculates - how it "cooks" best - the Ministry itself, the educational gaps, because of course the real gaps in teachers are much larger, if they are seen on the basis of the current real needs of the schools, which are of course also the demands of the movement, such as for schools of the twenty students per department and not twenty-five, twenty-eight or thirty, which are today also for fifteen children in the first grades of the school. Nevertheless, your Government and the Ministry of Education insist, against the reality, to promote an idyllic picture of the schools it has brought back - allegedly - regularity. But these thousands of educational gaps, even today we are talking about, blow up the entire communication story of the government about the return to normality in schools. There is no regularity, Minister, in schools when thousands of teachers are away, so that we do not, of course, talk about the economics of the schools in the tragic state, not to mention the building problems and the other sufferings of education.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u74	Well, the essence of your question has been understood.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u75	In short, Mr President, we are asking the Minister what is the planning of the Ministry for the immediate coverage of these educational gaps and what measures will you take to ensure that the full-time schooling is properly operational, that all the children need the training in parallel support, that the necessary reception classes are in place and that all the hours of specialization courses are covered by the respective teachers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u76	Thank you. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Delis, the image is certainly not idyllic - we have never said that - but it is certainly a radically differentiated image from the past and radically improved. It's an image - you want it, you don't want it - which shows that normality in education begins to become a status. Secondly, for something you obviously don't have a responsibility, but your partners, it's just that somewhere you don't get the numbers out. You said that ten thousand appointments have been made, when the question was asked, you said 'Let's say 12 thousand to this day'. You're saying there's four thousand blanks, right?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u78	In primary education.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u79	Altogether. It's not just for primary school, it's for general education. I want to inform you that we made seventeen and a half thousand appointments up to the day before yesterday. The seventeen-and-a-half thousand are far more than any addition you make, in whatever way you do it. Why am I saying that now? I say this because you complain about things that do not apply. Do you want to come to my office and let you know about thousands of problems we have in education and complain about them? You have no reason to complain about things that the Greek society has conquered. He happens to have conquered it with our own government, but what do we do? Let us all be happy, let us not be miserable in this regard. A second point is this and I would like your answer here: you said 'with the Ministry's accounts. You know very well that the Ministry has a mechanism by which school managers send data through the electronic system "MYSCHOOL" and also send data to the training directors, who send data to the regional directors, who send data to the Ministry. When the Ministry finds that something is wrong between the electronic system and what comes, it cannot generally appoint. We need to check. Our finances aren't good. Nor do we want there to be excess hours of teachers, which local society is commenting on. Question: Do you want together to see how we deal with these pathogens? I want you to know that today, unfortunately, I have had to carry out a preliminary examination of school directors who have reasonable suspicions that we are being sent with the wrong evidence. As to whether this will lead to an ESA or whether it will lead to disciplinary action, I will tell you that we will take it where the preliminary examination will lead. But it is respect for public officials to respond to the reality of their school. And one last thing: Because both your party and you have huge experience of local government, do you want together to see the responsibilities of local government in maintaining school buildings? Because local government needs to know what programming is.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u80	Yes, sir. The rest in your dentistry, Minister. Mr. Delia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u81	All right, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u82	Minister, I think you deliberately made a misunderstanding. Our question concerns primary education. The title of the question is: 'A school of teachers in primary education'. At primary level, therefore, the appointments of alternates or recruits have not exceeded 12 thousand, when last year was at the end of the year fourteen thousand. This comparison is made, not generally for education, but especially for primary school. The two thousand-dollar educational gaps therefore exist. And there are not because we say so, Minister, but because there are hundreds, thousands of schools throughout Greece. With regard to what you said about the country's budgetary problems and which you repeat as government at all times, when it comes to social needs and, more specifically, to education or health, I would like to say that these budgetary problems do not, for example, prevent you from giving billions - I mean, your Government - to NATO for equipment. Now regarding the responsibilities of the municipalities, in relation to the maintenance of schools. Of course there are also, but we should also see the amount of funding for these municipalities, which are inadequate - I know very well what is happening, for example, in the Municipality of Thessaloniki - and it is enough to meet minimum needs. The information we received from the official communications from the Ministry of Education's site, which even until yesterday, specifically on 20 October, recruited another nine hundred sixty-four alternates in primary education. So all these recruitments that are still taking place - you have not yet spoken of what needs to be done, unless you do not, tell us - they disprove and disprove all the literature you have developed - and you have supported it here today in this House today - of the fact that schools have been allegedly opened up without any shortages in teachers. But the reality even today, two months after the opening of schools, is different, and not at all normal. Those who live, Minister, in education, and those who have an elementary picture of it, know that most of the days cannot make a normal programme by 4 p.m. today, today, October 30, and they are degrading these schools, the whole day, more and more. All of this is done after the heavy blow that took the full day's school from your own government. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And here I would remind you, Minister, the memorial, recently handed you over for the lack of full-day schools in Minidi and, more generally, in East Attica, the Association of Educational Schools, Socrates, since the 12th of October. We are talking about an area with very strong educational and social needs, which no government propaganda can cover.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u83	Mr. Delis, finish it up. Will you cover the Mediterranean with the question?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u84	Let me finish, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u85	Finish, but stay with the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u86	I would like to remind you, of course, that you will be aware of the current mobilizations of the Parents' Association in Skopelos and Skiathos, which are being carried out in order to finally go to the schools of their children. Not to talk about specialisation courses in schools throughout the country, not taught by the relevant teacher or support, which is under-represented, or about subscribing the special treatment. And here I would like to raise a special issue, if I may, Mr President, in a minute or so...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u87	Finish it, Mr. Delia.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u88	...in relation to the education of the plaintiffs. Because you and your government can make fire reasons for these children's rights, who are the victims of wars,...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u89	This may be a special question, Mr Delis. That's another question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u90	...the reality, though, says... No, it has to do with the gaps, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u91	Everything has to do with education.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u92	No, with the educational gaps. However, the reality says that even those of these five thousand children were written in schools are not supported by the respective reception classes, rather than by a minimum percentage of 10%. It is characteristic that here in the center of Athens, for example, in the 1st of Athens, from the hundred reception departments required only operate nine. The same situation exists in Thessaloniki.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u93	Finish it, Mr. Delia.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u94	In conclusion, we have no illusion, Minister, about your policy in the well-known mistress of the former. Today's rallys of thousands of pupils and teachers across the country show the way for the people to follow for their rights and for the rights of their children.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u95	Minister, you have the floor. Please keep up the limits of time, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u96	Now I really don't know where to start, Mr. Deli. First of all, I understand a peculiar panic you have because things are going well. Because you answered me, you put the Minidium, the protests, the Skiathos, the refugees, etc. I'll answer for everything. But you should know that it has been recorded in the citizen's consciousness that things are going better this year than last year, last year they went better than before, etc. This has been recorded and it is a reality. Don't panic about that. Secondly, you would know that, in fact, we have moved on over the past ninety-four appointments of one thousand seventy. That is, we're talking about we don't have a hundred more in all of Greece, the sixty-five thousand teachers. Watch out. We're not going to appoint one, unless we're sure that the man appointed goes to do his job and do his job when everyone else does their job. Fortunately, the vast majority have shown that this is the rule. Fortunately! And that's why our educational system is still standing up, because of these teachers. But there are exceptions, and we will be ruthless in them. It's over and out. And in these exceptions we ask all the social actors, all the political bodies, to say that we do not play with education. We declare gaps where there are and do not declare gaps where there are excess hours. You know that this government has done things about special education that one could not imagine could be done. Indeed, we have a problem with parallel support. The teachers, that is, who are next to the children in the classroom. It is a matter for which our resources are very limited, and that is where we are trying to be as rational as possible. We understand that this is an extremely serious problem. Now, with regard to the rally you referred to. Is it responsible parents' clubs to take the children and say "we are making a rally for an essential school"? Is that the request? For "an essential school" are the children losing hours? Because that was today. So it wants a great deal of attention from parents, from teachers, from political parties, from social actors, with what kind of demands we are mobilising society today. Of course, there are problems in building. But it is not only the lack of funding for the municipalities, it is also the total lack by many, not everyone, of programming. We don't have planning to see what kind of intervention they're going to make in the buildings. Secondly, I would ask that we look at very specific requests. The 'for an essential school' is not a request nowadays. So there is an issue here of a more general difficulty in claiming specific requests. I would say that the government has too many shortcomings in this area, of course. But let us see what is specific and solve them. By saying that everything is black and that in any case nothing is done, I do not think we can help either education or society.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Minister. You have other questions. The third, with number 106/20-10-2017, top-circuit question by MP II of the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdos to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Taking measures in favour of small savers, who lost their money with the debt cut in 2012, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Finance, Mr. Juliarakis. The sixth question by number 138-23-10-2017 of the Member of Parliament of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Koutsoukos to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Reintegrating public debtors into the regulation of the hundreds of doses", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Papanatsiou. The sixth question, under number 104/20-10-2017, will be discussed at the first time by the Member of the Attica of the Independent Greeks Mr. Konstantinos Katsikis, with the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Meteographies of Multitude". Mr. Katsiki, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u98	After thanking you, Mr President, I would ask you to change my time and give me the time to speak for the first time and to speak for the second time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u99	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u100	Thank you. Mr Minister, the position we have been called upon to serve - more than we do - is not an observatory of the events that are taking place around us, because if that were the case, we would have lost the substance that we are here. We are not, therefore, observers of economic warp, to which all of our fellow humans are tempted, but we are helping - I want to believe - that we are not going to lose this warp. This does not make our election or our choice, respectively, to such a responsibility. Therefore, the families of the tents are families, which are more tested in the economic crisis than the social crisis. So the state comes to deprive the right of dreams and studies of these people. Minister, we must admit that it is impossible for a father of many family to support even one child in studies in another city than the one in which the whole family lives. Most of us are parents and some of us with children studying or studying in another city than that of our home - the talk twice, and for both of my children I had a similar experience. So we can all make sure, if we want to be well with our conscience, that it is tragicly difficult to maintain two or three homes from a family, how much more so when this family is multiple and behind the children who are asked to support their studies, there are others who need to survive and meet their essential needs. Their explicit protection under Article 21 of the Constitution, according to which the state is entitled to special care, as well as the mandate in the state to design and implement demographic policy, makes us responsible and accountable to them for measures harmonised in their protection. The polytexts and children of luxurious families who are students are only counted to 14% of the total number of students renamed. For the students relocated, it corresponds to this percentage, Minister, and not to all students who are studying. The law of polytecture registries has operated without problems for thirty-two consecutive years, as conceded by OHIM prefixes themselves. This right was given as a demographic incentive under Article 3 of Law 860/1979. The law in particular said: "The tent-letters written in at the highest or higher level of the national school following examinations shall be transferred their request to the first or second year of study of the respective school or school department, nearer to the place of permanent residence of their parents". This right, unfortunately, was abolished in 2009, because, as the Minister of Education claimed at the time, the polytectures were aggregating at schools, while the number of removable persons has continued to increase since then. Today only under strict socio-economic criteria are translated. However, while there are free transcripts for disabled, athletes, security bodies, military and Muslims, the same does not apply to multiples.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u101	Your question is clear, Mr Katsiki.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u102	I shall conclude, Mr President. I will not speak for a second, if that is what you are satisfied with. So that disgraceful ban on transfer, which was inherited by the then Minister of Education Mrs Diamantopoulou, must not apply to the philosophy and functioning of the present government. You should not be prevented from satisfying this rightful request of the trousers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u103	Well, then, let the Minister take along with protology and dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u104	I will only take one minute for my dentistry, Mr President. Maybe you don't have to.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u105	Okay. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u106	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Katsiki, you raised a socially difficult and complex issue. You know that being a child of a polytext family is modulated with two molecules in the process of transcripts, etc. In recent years, however, applications for relocations have increased exponentially. We have therefore set up an electronic system in which all molecules are introduced so that there is no possibility of undermining such a very serious procedure. Indeed, it is interesting - now, this year this process has begun - that our objections are too limited, that is, it is under the statistically permissible. So that means at least we have reached a system that no one disputes. But the needs are far more than the possibilities with which we can provide solutions. For example, the law is clear and says that you cannot increase the number of students in a department due to relocations of over 15% of those you have introduced. If you've imported a hundred, you can't go over a hundred fifteen or another fifteen. We've got sections where we've doubled that number, precisely because it's so explosive that's the problem of transcripts. For there are the transcripts which are due to luxury, because of low incomes, etc., but there are also cases which are related to health, for example, where we have a five-member committee, mainly made up of doctors. What I am trying to say to you is that the multitudes in a sense are victims, and they - not just those - of the lack of a very serious policy on student care. We first have laid the foundations for a systematic work on student care, that is to say, the focus, to have opportunities to give more to children's rents, to give more to children than housing benefits, which is taken by a huge number of children. Forty thousand students get a housing allowance of 1000 euros a year. We want to rationalise the feeding issue. So we think that the only way to prevent this enormous pressure on the relocations - and, as you can see, they are relocations to the large cities, because that is where the families of these children live and therefore create a very serious problem in the regional universities - must be a long-term policy on student care. I gave you some evidence. We hope that this will satisfy the general rule. Unfortunately, I cannot promise you anything directly on the issue of trousers, apart from the relatively favourable status we have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u107	Mr. Katsiki, do you need a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u108	I would like to, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u109	Here, Mr Katsiki, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u110	Thank you, Mr President. Of course, Minister, I do not know whether you will look at improving things in the long term, which is exactly what you are aiming at and what you will contribute to in relation to the legal and legal demand for luxuries. Of course, in the past, there has been the possibility - and I do not know today, because there is no - for the students to attend universities, having the right to relocation, without the criteria that other students have. If the data you have really are such that 14% of students requested to transfer are so large that it cannot be absorbed by the Greek universities, I would ask you to confirm that. But if, in the policy that we need to implement, and in the fight against demographic but especially for the cohesion of the family, because the multitudes are charged, as you know, and all of us, more than any other family, who are not parents of lots of children, they should...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u111	You have stressed this quite well.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u112	All right, Mr. President. I'm done here. Thank you, Minister, for your answer. If you want to see it again and have a conversation.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u113	Good, we might come back to the future. We move to the first with number 140/24-10-2017 a topical question from the Plenipotentiary Halkidiki of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Catherine Iglezi to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs on the subject: "Application for modification of the payment of road and overtime employment of the Educational Primary of Halkidiki". Mrs. Igleze, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u114	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, today's topical question concerns overtime and roadsides of about seventy teachers and administrative staff from the Halkidiki Primary Education Department, who, although they were in 2014 and 2015, could not be repaid. The overtime has been carried out in support of the programme of school units and administrative needs, and road transport concerns teachers travelling to more than one school unit in order to meet the educational needs of the students in the county. I must stress that compensation is in all fairness and a way must be found to overcome errors, omissions or even bureaucratic claws for the benefit of workers in training. Already in March 2016, the Halkidiki Primary Education Department has launched the necessary steps to pay the teachers' prizes. In writing to your Ministry, which I present in the Minutes, it proposed to make an amendment to the budget control office of Halkidiki to pay back approved expenditure pending from 2014 and 2015, as we have said. All information and procedures required to resolve the problem can be recovered from the relevant application. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Catherine Iglezi, presents for the minutes the above request, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] To note, finally, that the budget of the Halkidiki Primary Education Department for 2016 had entered the amounts necessary to repay the specific expenditure, amounts approved by the Ministry, but which, without the amending arrangement, could not be paid. After all this, the Minister asks what action he is going to take in order to finally repay teachers' qualifications and to put an end to an issue that has been aroused by both the workers and the Halkidiki Primary Education Department in recent years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u115	Thank you, too, for the absolute consistency in time. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u116	Mrs Inglezi, I will read you the answer which is the reply of the services and an answer that we have really tried with legal advisers to be as precise as possible. As you know, this problem is only solved by legislative intervention, with an article in some law. And you know that last time there was a disagreement of the government to include such an amendment. We might try it again. The sum is 20,000 euros, so that those who hear us are talking about something very big are not considered. There is simply a bureaucratic involvement here, which, unfortunately, cannot be resolved without legal intervention, which, as I said to you, has been a government objection to including in the law on higher education, if I am not mistaken, in August. I read the answer. For the financial years 2014-2015, no expenditure amounting to EUR 27,500 relating to the overtime employment of teachers in primary school establishments in Halkidiki and the movement of teachers for full-time and administrative hours for the needs of the service and PESC members to participate in the meetings was included. As regards the above costs and the part concerning the financial year 2014, a matter of regularity arises as the revocation decisions adopted on account of their non-payment in the year which was created, brought a date later, 7 January 2015, of that which they had to bear, i.e. 31-12-2014, in accordance with the relevant address of the General Accounting Office of the State. As regards the part relating to the financial year 2015, the supporting documents were returned by the competent authority, which did not complete their clearance and consolidation due to the suspension of the commitments in the ‘DENMARK’ at a later date than that in which they were carried out, as well as the non-attachment of the dates of the service. So there is, if you like, an omission of the service, not of the Ministry's service but of the service from which these colleagues come. I insist we have nothing to add. The services have exhausted it. It's been exhausted by our legal advisers. The only solution is legal, and that means consultation with the government. At the moment I cannot commit myself, precisely because there was this reluctance of the government last time this amendment was tabled.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u117	Mrs. Igleze, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u118	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I know, too, that the issue is dealt with by legislation alone. What we want is for there to be a legislative regulation in the next legislation of the Ministry of Education in order to solve the problem, because you too understand that it is a moral and social problem. Already teachers are called upon to cope with their reduced wages, wandering around almost every year on Greek territory, and often they need to put their own vehicles in different areas. In Halkidiki, mostly because of its road network and how the county is, it is very difficult to move from one school to another. You understand that they put the money, they pay it in advance, and in this case they haven't even taken that money, which they pay beforehand to move. Because Halkidiki Primary has repeatedly appealed to the Ministry to resolve the matter, and teachers say they have exhausted their patience, it is imperative to provide a solution after all these years. It would be sad. to get teachers to the point of legally moving against the administration, demanding them. We, as the left government, must be on the side of the workers and defend their working rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u119	Thank you, Mrs. English. Would you like to add something, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u120	Yes, I would like to add, so that there is no impression that any minister who is a powerful and can introduce any legal arrangement. There are collective decisions by the Government and there are commitments from the General Accounting Office of the State. I therefore insist that my colleagues, in fact, have suffered a great deal of hardship. There's a flaw in paperwork. You know that the General Accounting Office of the State - and I would rightly say - is very strict in such matters. I insist that politically it can only be solved when in a subsequent bill we bring it after discussing the government collectively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u121	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, twenty-seven students and students and four educational attendants from the 1st Priveza Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The fourth question under number 101/17-10-2017 of the first cycle of the Athens MP of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Panagiotaras to the Minister of Health, on the subject: 'Ragda increase in measles in the country', will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister responsible. The seventh Question No 143/24-10-2017, on the second question of the Independent MEP, Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, to the Minister for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, on ‘The laws do not apply to judges? Do they have their own laws?’ will not be debated as a result of an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Mr. Papagelopoulos. The fourth, under number 105/20-10-2017, topical question from the H' Vice-President of Parliament and MEP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on bilingual kindergartens in Xanthi and Rhodope, will not be discussed due to the obstruction of the questioner. Here is the second question under number 114/23-10-2017 of the New Democracy MP, Andreas Katsaniotis, to the Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, concerning measures on minorities acting uncontrolledly within the universities. Mr. Katsaniotis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u122	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I cannot resist the temptation, taking the floor from the question of my colleague of the Communist Party and your reply to the regularity, to tell you that the normality of the education you say does not exist in the high school of Klitomia. They haven't had a English teacher since the beginning of the year.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u123	What high school did you say?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u124	In the clitoria, in the mountainous Achaia, Minister. Today, the French teacher, who has never been on leave, has been seconded to the Institute for Education Policy. So the normality in the clitoria doesn't exist! Coming to the subject of the topical question, I would like to say to you - I imagine you will know - that in early October at the University of Patras, a group of no student bullies broke into the university, in the area of the Senate, forbid the members of the Senate to go out and preyed the dean. The reason for some of them was that the writings were not given or given, because they have not paid the Ministry. I am not going to stay on this subject, but I am going to stay in the behaviors. This attitude since I asked the question to date has been done elsewhere. We saw what happened with a representative who went to talk to an event in ASEAN, which was indeed aFTER. You realize that these phenomena create a huge concern for everyone. What I would like to know is, firstly, what is the Ministry's view of this - I imagine it condemns it, but I expect and listen to it - and secondly, what measures will the Ministry take from now on so that minority groups will not break down the Greek public university. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u125	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u126	Mr Katsaniotis, obviously you and I have another perception of normality. Normality means whether the trend of things improves or not. And the question is. Is it improved or because a professor in Achaia is missing, isn't it normal? Of course he's not missing the professor. I wrote it down, and I'll see why it's gone. But the lack of a teacher from a school does not overshadow what is happening throughout Greece, which is something positive and the whole society confesss it. Why don't we just admit it here, too? The second issue, because your comment was by the way, rather on the occasion, that when this incident took place in Patras, we responded immediately, expressing our strong displeasure at such matters and saying that they undermine democracy. We did the same when there was a corresponding episode in Thessaloniki with the Dean, Mr. Mitka. I also think that these are unacceptable things, things that undermine democracy and all these phenomena must be found against us. As it had to find us opposing, and what happened on Saturday in Santorini, where the chrysayites banned the course, because the signifier was a child of Albanian origin. Your party fortunately made a announcement but did not fail in the announcement to say that it was essentially the government's fault in this climate of lawlessness. There's no iniquity. There have been thousands of parades on Saturday and there has been an incident in Santorini, which has to find us all unequivocally opposing. As far as university is concerned, we have said it before and we are now saying it. The infrastability, existential and not imaginary, which exists in some universities, must be dealt with in multiple ways. I call on the universities to tell us proposals which do not come, because infractionism, obviously, cannot be dealt with at a police campus. There are countries where there are no violations. There are countries that fear infraction and universities are policemen. We don't want such universities. On the other hand, we want our universities to have no offense. In our view, this is a set of things that are clear in the law to call the public authority, but at the same time we must see what we can do with social workers and psychologists. We must, above all, see what the university community can do to eliminate these kinds of phenomena. It is an extremely complex issue and, unfortunately, it has accumulated over the past few years, where there has been absolutely no ban on anything. But it seems that the dean authorities did not take what they should have done so seriously.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u127	Here, Mr Katsaniotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u128	Mr President, since I see that I am the last speaker, I would like a bit of your tolerance because they have opened two or three issues. Minister, it is obvious that we have another perception of regularity. My perception is consistent with those who send their kids to school. No one has told you that you represent the whole of society. This is a definition of populism. Go see what's going on in school. No one has told you that you are representing everyone. Secondly - and very importantly - making announcements and condemning the events taking place in universities is making you a very good judge of the facts. Do you realize that you are the state, that you have a responsibility and that you should propose? You come and say that the dean authorities don't propose. They're terrified, Minister! When I called Mrs. Dean right after the incident, for two days I couldn't find her. Her secretary was telling me she was shocked. And you expect a proposal on how it'll be protected? Is it the State's business or not to have immunity from lawlessness? Yes or no? That is the answer you need to give. Secondly, I'm going to say something simple. Is democracy rated? So, is there a democracy in the country? Can we say what we want, discuss what we want, have opinions in the context of legality and have places where when you go through a door, can you say more freely about your opinions? These people are terrified. Do you understand that? There are some minorities that really terrorize. I'm telling you again, Minister, that the Greek university in the past - because I'm done - was confronted by student groups. He had intense ideological controversy. He had requests. This is a university of interest. The university where there are ten bullies, twenty hoodmen and guys who do serious illegality is a university that should worry us. Instead of promoting ideological debate or even ideological controversy, what promotes is the lawlessness, the terrorism that we need to get out of our universities, if we want them to become social mobility institutions, if we want them to be from the Cretoria who have neither English nor French to read more, to enter a good public university and to advance in their lives. The people with money, Minister, go to the universities in England. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u129	Thank you, too. Here, Mr Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry and you are at least finishing for today. You didn't have a few questions, as a matter of fact.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u130	The fact that those who have money go to the universities in England are a very interesting finding and I will study it. Only to know that many people whose families have money, go with their choice to the exceptionally good Greek universities.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u131	Which should stay extremely well.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u132	Oh, no. First of all, there are no such things as you, not a great deal of them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u133	Don't twist what I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u134	I heard very carefully...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u135	I said, Minister, that I am done and I honor the Greek public universities.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u136	Because you've done it and honor it, it doesn't mean it's good. And I might be done honoring something that wasn't good. I don't understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u137	Don't twist what I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u138	You know, conceptually...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u139	I know exactly what I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u140	You may know, but you didn't transmit it that well, because saying "I'm done from somewhere, so I think it's very good" has a peculiar ego. That is to say, after I finished it, so it is very good.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u141	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u142	It's not like that. It's a very good university, regardless of whether you've finished it or not. You said the schools were broken. And I ask you - and I would ask you, Mr President, to take time from me and give Mr Katsaniotis - that: do you really think that schools are broken up? I don't mean you personally, but the space you come from. Is today's school breakthrough that starts on time, where the books are on time, and within these budgets, have we done wonders in special lawsuits? Do you think they're broken? To respect all of us what society has managed to do. It's society's achievement and respect and enjoy all of us.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u143	Mr President, you will give me time to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u144	The rhetoric was the question, Mr. Katsaniotis. Minister, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u145	Secondly, with regard to infringements, I told you: try to understand that complex social problems - because this is a social problem - must also have complex solutions. That is why we have set up a working group with the Constitutional and Professor of the University of Thessaloniki, Mr. Paradigopoulos, to see how we can deal with this complex problem. This is the first time that this has been done and I think we should applaud it. Finally, because the Chief of the New Democracy, where he is found and where he stands, speaks of lawlessness and terrorism in the Greek universities, I say stop because man has incredible ignorance of education and creates a climate he himself, which terrorizes our fellow citizens who go to the universities. Our universities are very good. It proves the research programs they receive, the excellent students we have that when they go abroad receive scholarships and diverse, the excellent teachers we have. All this must be safeguarded.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u146	Did this happen in two and a half years? It's always been.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u147	It didn't happen in two and a half years.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u148	In the meantime, your time is up, Minister. Coincidence isn't real!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u149	You're right. I say we really discuss whatever problem there is, but not the logic that universities are a man of lawlessness and terrorism. Please very much. This logic does not honor you, it does not honor the state, it does not honor our society. They're not the universities of lawlessness. There are, of course, acts which need to be condemned. We must do this very clearly. From that until we say it's an iniquity and infringibility, there's a huge gap that I would ask you not to cross.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u150	Thank you for your presence. We move on to the third debate under number 108-23-10-2017 on the second time question by the Member of Parliament for the adoption of the PASOK Democrat Association - DIMAR Mr. Konstantinos Barriotas to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The EOPYY loses his autonomy." Mr. Barriots has the floor for two minutes to develop the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u151	I shall be very brief at first reading, Mr President. After all, this is a rather well-known subject by the press. First of all I thank you for your presence, Minister. In the Presidential Decree concerning the Ministry of Health's Agency in Article 30 we were amazed to see most of the people in the press that the way it is formulated passes all the responsibilities to the Ministry. I will not read them because Mr Bored is used to be extremely strict with me on time, so I will try to be formal. However, there is no implementing option, namely any of the obligations laid down in the two previous EOPY Recommendations, which is not transferred to the Ministry. That is the wording. In addition, responsibility passes through the Deputy Minister to the Minister. I may think that that is why you are here today. You'll tell us about it. I would remind you very briefly that the EEA is an autonomous organisation. His arrest, his design and creation were as an autonomous body, who buys services, manages the funds autonomously away from political power, of course, but not from itself, just to break the circle of client corruption, customer relations and an unacceptable regime that we all know about in IKA and other funds that was well described by the well-known expression "Yiannis buying, Yiannis drinks". Because this has happened before, "I have the money, I have the services, I do favors, I make arrangements, I suit my doctors, I restrict the patients" and so on. That was the idea: Single rules, transparency, quality assessment and independence mainly. He followed a response that got us the most confused, a statement from the Ministry, which does not even very much say that we did not understand well, that the presidential decree is not what we understood and that the laws as they stand, etc. apply. I would therefore like, in order to win time, to pass the tangle of the dispute on the distribution of power between the Minister and the Deputy, which is of only bipolar value, because, in my opinion - if you like, you can comment on it - I think it is not about both the citizens and the policy as such. It's a different matter. However, the communication clarifies that the collective proposal of the Ministry's political leadership is to remain the same. That's what the presidential decree says. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] What I am interested in and I would like to hear is what the role and future of the EEAS is and how you understand it. What is the Ministry's philosophy? Does he really want to transfer all the essential responsibilities of the EEAS to the Ministry, or does he want to continue in the way it is regulated? Is there a philosophy and what is that philosophy? Because we're confused. We see here that a President-in-Office decree essentially prepares for the best, if it does not complete, the transfer of powers and the castration of the reform, as has been done. Is that the logic? Why was it so sudden?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u152	The Minister will answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u153	I'm done with this, Mr. Barbaraine. You're right. As far as I know, that's what he's recklessly conceived, and the administration of EOPY and the employees of EOPY, almost everyone. So I would like you to tell us to finish in the first round, what exactly this situation is about, and why there was this wording in the President-in-Office's decree in the way it was.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u154	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u155	My dear colleague, indeed, thank you for the timely question, because it gives us a chance to clear things up. So I am telling you straight away that there is a lot of talk about nothing and it is no coincidence that, following the explanations that we have given to both the administration and the association of the workers of the EEA, there is no longer any reproduction of this debate. You have just adopted yourself a number of articles, which speak of mutilation, depreciation, degradation, change - let us say - of the nature of EEAS, even the abolition of labour rights and jobs, as you say in your communication. So none of this applies. The establishment, operation and responsibilities of the EEAS have been established by Law 3918/2011. He has not changed by one party. Rather, we have changed some things, that is, we have made his administration more democratic, and we have predicted representation as a regular member of the Board of Governors of the elected representative of the agency's employees, which was not there until now. I would remind you that all the social partners are represented on the body. The Panhellenic Medical Association is represented, the pensioners are represented, the patients from the Disabled People's Federation are represented, the GSEW and other employers' organisations are represented. What we did, my dear colleague, with the n.e.c. 121 is to build the Agency of the Ministry of Health, which obviously also regulates the Ministry's relations with its supervised bodies. EOPYY is an independent but supervised body of the Ministry of Health. The three crucial and key responsibilities of the Ministry in relation to the EEAS, which are the adoption of the budget, the adoption of the Single Health Regulation, the EMS, and the approval of the EEAS Agency were also in the previous presidential decree. Nothing's changed. What has been added is a number of responsibilities which, in our view, were not in the previous version of the Ministry's Agency, such as the limits on the closed budget, which concern certain benefits, the rates of prescribing generic medicines, the categories of benefits, which must be regulated and compensated by the EEAO, which I imagine you agree can only be an element of an overall health policy and can, as you say, be an autonomous health policy. Our understanding is that this regulation, which we have done, in fact, strengthens the political, organisational and administrative supervision of the EEAS and upgrades its role. Prior to that, the supervision of the EEAS was the responsibility of a department belonging to the Primary Care Department. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] EEAY is very well aware that it is not just about primary care. He also has hospital treatment in his supervision, has and has a restoration, he also has a wide range of benefits, which obviously is not limited to primary care. So there, where, in fact, she was being supervised by a branch of a directorate, she is now being exercised by an independent department, which is under the supervision of the Minister. Don't play with this story about who has responsibility. Who has the authority to supervise the EEAS shall be determined each time by the Prime Minister, who shall allocate the responsibilities between the Minister and the Deputy. Now, at this time, the Deputy Minister is practicing them, and will continue to exercise them. We have said it and said it in the first place. There is, therefore, neither a parapolitical issue but, unfortunately, neither a political one. What I fear you are defending is the anachronisation of the former presidential decree of the Ministry, where the Agency was indeed at the same level as the Department of Prevention and Health.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u156	Minister, you have a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u157	I'll say more in my denture. We are therefore stepping up this relationship, because it is precisely because we consider that the EEA to be a major body, which can contribute, together with the state budget with the insurance contributions it manages, to the upgrading of public care in the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u158	Mr Barriotta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u159	Mr President, I will now ask for equal treatment in terms of time because I have to comment on a few things. I'll try to be as brief as possible. I am pleased that you have clarified the basic point. Your perception is a concept of central control of everything. You said yourself that, in your opinion, these powers had to be passed too. There's nothing left. Even electronic prescribing and prescribing procedures are passed on to the Ministry. I don't want to read it again now. These are now nine points, the responsibilities that the Ministry has on EOPY. They even include prescribing, Minister. Everything, everything.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u160	The therapeutic protocols will be defined by the anti-subsidy body?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u161	Give me a minute. I think this is where we disagree. It is good that you have clarified your position.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u162	He's the indemnity, is he gonna determine the protocols?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u163	You will respond to your dentistry, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u164	Allow me. Give me a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u165	Think about what you're saying!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u166	I know exactly what I'm saying. You know well that the EEAY is neither horrific nor anything. It is a major reform which has been under discussion since the beginning of 2000. It has to do with a distorted system in Greece, with infinite medical treatment, where every fund had its medical office, paid, did, with huge differences, with huge distortions, with enormous inequality. The EEA was therefore set up as an independent fund management authority, which is not budgetary money. What you are taking to the Ministry today, to manage as a political authority at once - you in another way, tomorrow, another government in a different way - is the money of the insured. It is the 6%, which entered the pensions and which is not yet paid to the EEA, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u167	You don't know well.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u168	But it's the money of the insured. It's not budget money. So you're taking them to the Ministry. Here we have a basic objection. We believed and believe that the EEAY should continue, as designed, as an independent purchaser of services, the famous monopsone, which has the ability to press, control quality and choose, not with myopia glasses, ideologically, such as what you like very much to say, by sharing in favour of the state or private or PPP tomorrow, but by setting stable cost-performance criteria each time. To do this, it cannot be drowned by the hand of political leadership. Therefore, it must remain independent. That was the philosophy. There is, in fact, a great debate, a great debate about whether it should be at the Ministry of Health or whether it should have left the Ministry of Health and go to Social Security precisely so that there is no such logic of "Yiannis buying, Yiannis drink", "the Minister has the money, the Minister does the services". That's the logic of the EEA. That's how it was legislated. That's how it started. You are right, you have never voted for it, you have not voted for the establishment of the EEA. Actually, you undermined him and I'll say how. The famous YAN, the costing of services stayed behind, because it never worked and you do this new KETKNY, I don't know what's called two and a half years late. The issue of the costing of services stayed behind. The costing of hospitals since 2011 had not been done. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Today, in 2017, about three and a half thousand examinations are still unaccounted for or costed at 1991 prices. All this must go ahead and it is a titanium project. I'm not saying it could be done within a year, but your logic is specific. Your logic leads to the revival of IKA's logic in the primary, where the money is provided by the provider, the service is provided by the provider and usually, the patient is hostage to a logic, which can serve the doctor, can serve customer relations and the political leadership in question, but does not serve either quality or performance or cost-performance. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. I still believe that this is obsolete and not the previous one. Here we have a great backwardness, in relation to European practice, in relation to European perceptions, which do not have ideological lyric lyrics. They buy services from everywhere, depending on the cost-performance ratio, and do not consider state-of-the-art cheaper or better, without being evaluated and measured. And I'm ending with this in thirty seconds. But what's going to happen? You took out a presidential decree, which those who know Greek understand that it is in direct contrast to the 2011 and 2014 law, which regulates the responsibilities of EEAY. The law could prevail. But, at the moment, you have two different legal texts, which can be invoked each time by one agency against the other. Will the presidential decree change, or will the law change? He's in clear controversy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u169	Good. Ask the question and you're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u170	And one final sentence, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u171	And perfect.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u172	Finally, do you have a philosophy of where EEAS will go in the next five years? Can you tell us with two words what EPPY will be? Will it be a state agency, a branch of the Ministry, an directorate of the Ministry, which will manage money - I repeat - of the white-white insured or an independent body with its own leadership? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u173	You're done, Mr. Barriotta. The doctors are overtaken by lawyers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u174	Hey, not yet! Okay, we're hard on this! We have...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u175	You have the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u176	Apart from the Minister, perhaps.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u177	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u178	Now listen to me. I fully agree that the establishment of the EEA in 2011 and its start-up in 2012 was indeed a significant change in the field of integration of the health sectors of the insurance funds. Of course, you forget to say that the EEA started its first steps after having loaded all the accumulated debts of the previous insurance funds. In other words, it started with a dowry of 2.2 billion debts. He had been drugged from the outset and had limited his ability to intervene as a monopsy, which was in fact never practiced. And just now, with our own government, we are starting to play this role, now that we have set up and upgraded the functioning of the negotiating committee and we are starting to negotiate with the pharmaceutical industry as well, but also with other providers, more affordable compensation prices. We, therefore, received an institution, dear fellow Member, which had arrears of debts and continuously produced arrears because it paid 90% - you know that very well - and was still 10% of the initial liquidation. This has been over since 2016. The agency now, at the time it makes a great effort to clear up debts and closes its due obligations, will no longer produce arrears from the end of the year. And we have already achieved a terrible normality in payments - something that private providers and pharmacists and others know very well, and normality is much better than in the past - rarely more than three to four months. And, of course, it has been strengthened with human potential, with more than two hundred workers transferred from EVA, because just now EOPY has also taken on the role of clearing up the submissions made by those who are insured to the EEA. He has also taken very important steps in the part of citizens’ relief. From 1-1-2017 he has made a collective agreement with too many suppliers and instead of the citizen going to buy the health material, food preparations, suffocations and everything else he requires, in any case, his disease from his pocket and then submit the expenditure to be retrospectively compensated, a direct contract of the EEAS with suppliers, pharmacies, private suppliers and the citizen is not charged with the advance. This is very important intervention and resolution. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] On the question of the reimbursement of contributions from the FBI to the EEA, I would inform you that last year it was attributed to 90% and this year we have agreed with the Ministry of Labour's political leadership to be paid to 100%, i.e. that 4.5 billion will be paid for health contributions from the insurance funds. The interesting thing from this story is that, of course, you have in mind an agency that buys. We don't disagree that he'll be the only buyer. He's probably a buyer. The difference is with what you're saying, I understand that you want a body that will buy services exclusively from the private sector and oriented...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u179	..................................................................................................................................................................... (It didn't hear.)
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u180	Good, I'm glad you say that. But until we took over, it actually did. EEAY paid, dear colleague, about 100 million euros a year in public hospitals for hospitals for its insured, and we in 2016 paid 533 million euros and this year we will exceed 600 million euros. This is called transport, reorientation of public resources, because social security resources are public resources, their reorientation to the public health system and their synergies with the state budget to support public care and to address the demand for universal and equal coverage of the citizens of the country and especially of uninsured people. This is our political plan, that EEAY is not another shop - let me say, the term - but it is a health policy body, it buys health services, but in the context of a strategy and a policy that the State, in other words the Ministry, draws up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u181	Finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u182	Let me finish, Mr President. And this institution is supported, upgraded organisationally and functionally, upgraded in terms of computerisation and upgrading of its e-government. This is going on right now. This time there is a cosmogenicity in terms of the functioning, structure and organisation of the EEAS. At 100% the costs of a system of up-to-date checks carried out on a percentage of samples and deposits made are cleared. There have been very large steps and, obviously, the Ministry of Health must have the necessary supervision over this supervised body.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u183	Minister, that's what we're going to do.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u184	So the political plan is this: EEAY is a body managing EUR 5.5 billion, when the state budget, which concerns the wider health sector, is EUR 4.5 billion. We therefore believe that one and the other budgets are public health expenditures, and the public health expenditure should, as a matter of priority, cover, support the public health system, because that is what society today needs in a period of poverty and exclusion, which has existed in previous years. My dear colleague, in fact in all my good will, I have the feeling that in the way you approach the issue, you are reconstructing an insurance-centre approach to health policy that is completely inconsistent with the needs of a country that has 21%, 22% unemployment and has a huge problem with its insurance system. In fact, it is a battle of trenches that defends anachronism against a political leadership and a government that gives a battle for stabilisation, upgrading and reforming public care. That's the point. No amputation, no shrinking, no catastrophe, I think it is appropriate in this case. In fact, I call for you to have a much more calm, more serious and, above all, a more political attitude towards these things and not to adopt parapolitical scenarios that are circulating on the various health websites.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u185	Thank you. The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-30-S1-commons.u186	With the agreement of the House at 20.05 p.m., the sitting for the next Wednesday, November 1st, 2017, at 10 p.m., on the subject of this House's work is closed, according to the agenda distributed.
