ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS The second question will be discussed under number 1074/20-6/2017 in the first cycle of the Member of Parliament, Mr. Spyridonos - Adonidos Georgiadis, to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: “Contact of the Minister of National Defence Mr. Panos Kammenos with the isovite Mr. Giannosakis”. The Minister of National Defence, Mr. Kammenos, will answer. Mr. Georgiadis, you have the floor. There will be a relative flexibility in the times of the debate so that the views can be developed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. I hope for a debate on the seriousness that this issue imposes. I am pleased that you have brought almost all your group and your ministers, Mr Kammene, because you seem to understand the seriousness too. First of all, here, we are not talking about 'NOOR 1'. Anything you have to say about Noor 1 - if you have - you'll tell the competent investigator and the competent prosecutor. If Greek justice decides that Mr Vangelis Marinakis - because you told us that we did not speak with names - he is guilty of drug trafficking, of rotting in prison. This will not be judged by Panos Kammenos, but will not be judged by Stavros Kontonis, I will not judge. That will be judged by Greek justice. But let's go talk about what we know and which is particularly serious. Because, Mr President, today, Mr Tzanakopoulos asked a rhetorical question, if it is illegal for the Minister to speak with the isovite, I am presenting for the Practicals the article of the Criminal Code which Mr Panagiotis Kammenos has snatched, if he confirms what Mr Kontonis said on Friday in Parliament, that is to say, he has indeed spoken to Mr Giannousaki's convicted drug trafficking. I submit to the Minutes of the House Article 239 of the Criminal Code on Abuse of Power. [[At this point the Member, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] By imposing provisions, it reaches ten years of imprisonment. If it's over three, it's 20 years in prison. This is for the information of Mr. Janakopoulos. So let's go, ladies and gentlemen, see things all along. Mr. Makis Triantafylopoulos, in his statement, informed Mr. Panos Kammenos of the need for Mr. Yannosakis to speak with someone from the government, because he did not trust Greek justice. I would remind you, Mr President, of your statements at that time about Makhi Triantafylopoulos, when that vulgar video had been released for Gabriel Sakellaridis. Not more than three years have passed when SYRIZA was called Mr. Mace Triantafyllos "payed assassin of characters". But I'm over it. Now, Mr Triantafyllopoulou, with Mr Kammenos, and I hope not with Mr Kontonis, he has become a preacher of cleansing. What did Mr. Kontonis say here in the House on Friday, ladies and gentlemen? He told us that Mr Kammenos did, indeed, paralysedly speaking with Mr Giannousakis, but he did so in order to find the truth, and that is why we must forgive him. Can we have an experiment together? I'm pressing the timer. 'Hello. Panagiotis Kammenos, Minister for National Defence. Mr Giannousakis?’. ‘Secretary of State’. "I call upon you to tell the truth and only the truth and to go to the prosecutor and to testify what you have and not to be afraid of anything." It was just sixteen seconds. Can I give you another sixteen? We reach thirty-two seconds. Minister, by the 'COSMOTE' phone calls that were published legally and not as a product of intercepts, Mr. Kontonis - a relevant press release of 'COSMOTE' was released today that he legally gave the account to the user Giannusakis - it appears that Mr. Kammenos spoke with him twenty-one minutes. At least that's what it looks like. Questions first and serious: Since to tell him what Mr Kontonis said on Friday, you need about sixteen seconds, twenty-one full minutes in twelve different telephone conversations, in sms you exchanged, what exactly did you want to say, Mr Cammene? So tell us what you said to Mr.Giannisakis and if you intend to submit to Parliament a copy of the movement of your own account, to find out whether or not before or after Mr.Giannissakis spoke with Mr. Christoforides, the port official who is seen by the telephone conversations saying: "We do not care about the truth, Mr. Kontonis, but about Tsipras 10 years in power, incriminating Marinakis, Mitsotakis". That's what Mr. Christoforides says. I would like to see Mr. Kammenos's phone bills if he has spoken to Mr. Christofordis. So, question one, what did you say about Mr. Yannusakis? With what responsibility did you talk to Mr. Giannousakis about drug trafficking? Do you know Mr. Christoforides? Have you spoken to Mr. Christofordis? To close it, ladies and gentlemen, and not to abuse any more time, I would ask: How accidental is it, Minister, that all this is happening at the time that you were obsessed with passion for Mr Savvidis when you deleted his fine 'SECAP'? And all this is happening, Mr. President, while Vangelis Marinakis has been grabbing Doll from Savvidis and Makis Triantafylopoulos, who, in January, had Mr. Kammenos's talks and phone calls since January, randomly publishes the relevant talks 24 hours before the Lambraki Journalist Association, the one that Mr. Kammenos, Mr. Savvidis, lost from Vangelis Marinakis. So here, Mr President, we are not discussing what Mr Kontonis said on Friday, whether Mr Kammenos was trying to find the truth about 'NOOR 1', but we are discussing whether Mr Kammenos tried to trap Vangelis Marinakis, to prevent his takeover of 'DOL' from him and to keep Mr Tsipras in power. The rest in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u3	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u4	Mr President, the Civic Opposition has so far had a global first. Instead of making opposition to the government, he opposed Greece, and this clearly showed in the assessment. I understand the problem and the cave that New Democracy has, when especially today, a little while ago, Greece first fell seven and a half points in its ten-year bond and arrived at 5,42%, which is lower, that is, since December 2009. It is natural, therefore, that we should find a trick in order to convey the debate elsewhere. He comes here today and has the second originality: for the first time after the Koskotas era, we have the Civic Opposition to be identical to a citizen, to a businessman, who, however, is not a mere businessman who bought a mass information instrument, is a citizen who has pending cases with justice. For the ‘NOOR’ case, it is alleged that it is involved in the financing of the mine and there are transfers from its interests to Giannusakis, i.e. the isovite who allegedly is the witness he wanted to testify. Involved in the case of black money laundering in Greece for oil smuggling and there is, in addition to Giannosakis' deposits, the arrest of the director of Marinakis, Mr. Synthraki, at "Eleftherios Venizelos" with 622,000 euros. I'll testify to that. [[At this point, the Minister of National Defence - President of the Independent Greeks Mr Panos Kammenos presents for the record the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] At the same time, there is a involvement by the prosecutor Daskakopoulou from September 5, 2016, where twice the competent prosecutors, Mr. Stamatagiannos and Mrs. Roussea, who took over, have reported abstention. So this is the businessman that the Vice-President of the New Democracy is coming to defend today. This is the first time, I say, after the Koskottas case, which then New Democracy MP and then Minister Sourlas asked a question about 'Koskottas scandal'. You know what happened then? He was called upon to withdraw the question, a communication came from the New Democracy that he has nothing to do with New Democracy and that he is moving personally. In fact, the newspaper "Kathimerini", purchased subsequently by Mr Koskotas, writes: "State question Member of the New Democracy". I'm filing it in the House. [[At this point the Minister of National Defence - President of the Independent Greeks Mr Panos Kammenos presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the NOOR case is not a simple drug case. It is a case that has international implications, a case involving three tons of drug trafficking worth more than 30 million euros, which, apart from killing more than a hundred thousand children, is allegedly coming from Iran and possibly the oil it carried from, would be in exchange for the financing of terrorism, as the latest Gatestone institute says today. I remind you it's the institute that supported Trump candidacy. Indeed, it states that the high society of Greece, the high elite will do everything in order to protect and not to uncover this case, which has to do with national security issues, the responsibility of the Ministry of National Defence and, apart from national security, the issues that have to do with the international relations of the country. [[At this point the Minister of National Defence - President of the Independent Greeks Mr Panos Kammenos presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I would remind you that Turkish drug dealers have been involved in the case and that since the time of Husseinoglu Turkish drug dealers designed by the Turkish state put drugs in Greek society, as in the camps. Finally, it is a matter of concern to all of us, particularly today, which is the anti-drug-trafficking day. It is therefore a matter of national security and my capacity as Minister of National Defence. When did this case come out in the air? The case came out just after the Economic Police invasion of Mr. Marinakis' statements into operations on 14 and 15 June, when these operations failed to find the evidence that the oil was paid for "NOOR", but, as he said to Mr. Marinakis' companies in the Economic Police, it was to serve some invoices. This is still being investigated by the Economic Police. In an evil coincidence, following the entry of Mr. Marinakis on 14 and 15 June, Mr. Marinakis was found at the "Papioannou" restaurant in Piraeus with Mrs. Dora Bakoyannis and Mrs. Alexia Bakoyannis. Comrade of Ms Alexia Bakoyannis is Mr Papadopoulos, who has taken over the attack against me in the middle of Mr Marinakis. It is, to remind those who do not remember, those who took from the Greek Red Cross EUR 300,000 to support the Euro 50,000 fund-raiser. It is precisely the period when Minister Voridis and Minister Georgiadis are sharing CEDEFOP money. And one of the people who receive CEDEFOP money is the convicted, Mr. Aimilios Kotsonis, who, in the three procedural documents that I mentioned before, has dozens of talks with Members of the New Democracy. Some were lying with him in "Nammos" in Mykonos. He is the man, who was a partner or rather Mr. Kourtakis' boss at the "METRORAMA", who incidentally had the same address as PARAPOLITICA. Mr. Kourtakis is the one who was sentenced a few months ago to two years' imprisonment by me for slandering, for he said my son is a terrorist and friend of Polas Rupas and in total over the last six months he has eaten six years in prison. It is the one who, from one of the media of Mr Marinakis, "PARAPOLITA" and the previous version, dedicated for the first time to politics twenty-six pages, a hundred and fifty-eight times the name "Camamenis", sixty-four "Minister of National Defence" and nine times the "ANEL". What lawyers? But, of course, with the greatest lawyer, the New Democracy MP and former Minister, Mr Vorides. So we see that here we now have a clear support for a suspect, a person involved in four cases, who he himself asked me to testify to, has denounced Mr Marinakis himself. And who are they who first revealed it, and it wasn't me, of course? It was Mr Alfouzouzou's SKAI show. I would remind you that, in Mr Alfouzouzou' s SKAI on Mr Thomaidis's programme - all the relevant bulletins are available to you - they mentioned in detail the possible involvement of Mr Marinakis in the case of NOOR 1, as well as in the frames of football. They are the ones who revealed relations and then proceeded to an investigation into justice. I am presenting the companies of Mr Marinakis who are united, the companies of Mr. Aimilios Kotsonis, who were with Mr. Kourtakis in the same building. [[At this point the Minister of National Defence - President of the Independent Greeks Mr Panos Kammenos presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Now let's go to the prisoner's theme. When a prisoner reveals important evidence of the case of three tons of heroin, referring to leading faces of business and political life, we take it seriously. Drugs are not just a criminal offence. It is not just a matter of judiciary, it is a political matter, but above all a social issue. And when he confesses to the journalist that his own life and his family are at risk for what is terrible and unwittingly revealed and asks for the protection of the state, you are obliged to give it to him, because the question is the disfellowshipping of the way of heroin and the removal of the swabs that trade in it. When the journalist puts you before the responsibilities - ask him why he asked me and not the Minister of Justice first - and he is the addressee of the same letter that I had received and had testified to justice several months ago and involved the person concerned, then I am obliged to follow the law and procedures laid down in the Code of Criminal Procedure. When the person involved in his revelations for the largest load of heroin caught is, in addition to a shipowner, the president of one of the largest football teams in the country and at the same time also holds a political status as a council chairman, they are multiplied in the ninth. And even before I proceeded to contact the Minister of Justice, I made the contact with a judge, who assured me that the politician not only has the right to contact a prisoner who reveals serious crimes when he's asked for...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u5	The judge's name!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u6	...and when he realizes that the prisoner's life is at stake, he also has a duty to do so. If the politician has a responsibility for all citizens, he has a major responsibility for the citizens who are depriving them of their freedoms. And we're going to the articles of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Under Article 30 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, the Minister of Justice shall have the right to order the prosecutor to carry out a preliminary examination of any criminal offence. According to Article 40 of the same Code, even private individuals are required to report to the competent prosecutor if they are aware of a criminal offence of their own motion. In particular, in the case of drugs - and here we are talking about the biggest drug case in Europe - under Article 27 of the Code on Drugs of Law No 4139/2012, the legislator rewards those who give information on the disclosure of drug traffickers and grants them relief, suspension of execution and release, in other words, to give the largest fish. In addition, and in accordance with the provision of Article 28 of the Drugs Act, even men of the Port, the ILO and the Police may also use covert identity and counterfeit tax data. So what did I do exactly? When he asked me for protection through the journalist, Mr Triantafylopoulos, I contacted the Minister of Justice and asked him to meet with the journalist, in order to see whether or not a isovite who denounces the largest fish is in danger. And that's what I did. And the Minister himself took over and sent the prosecutor, as he had to, to get a statement. Why did he call me that night four and five times? Because he was late for the prosecutor to go, because he was afraid of his family, describing that he had suspects outside his home who could eat him, such as the other seven or eight witnesses who were “eaten” in the case of “NOOR”. Because you want examples, I will remind you of the case of Prime Minister Simitis, where when he went and visited him on January 30, 2003, day Thursday and hour 20.30, he reported to him - I read the statement of Angelopoulos in the sworn witness exam - the following: "At the meeting I had with the Prime Minister, I informed him of the recent debate I had with Gregory Michalopoulou and the threats that I had for my wife and our children. The Prime Minister had heard about Gregory Michalopoulou and we focused on specific treatment and treatment. The Prime Minister then forwarded the note of Dimitris Angelopoulos, a copy of which he delivered, and he himself immediately described the case as very serious and took over and promoted it to the relevant departments." So we have another example of the November 17 case. I am tabling Articles 40 and 37 on the obligation, as well as Article 28 of the Narcotics Act. [[At this point the Minister of National Defence - President of the Independent Greeks Mr Panos Kammenos presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Let's go to the political party now. The society for relations between Marinaki and the Mitsotakis family. You can maintain whatever relationship you want, socially, is your right. You can maintain at your own risk and as many business relationships as you choose. One thing you cannot do: When all those friends of yours are controlled for serious criminal offences, get in front and provide immunity! If legality is not always moral, illegality is completely immoral and criminal. And that concerns you and Voridis, who was the lawyer of Mr. Marinakis and the company. If, in fact, you consider that the so-called hunted by us Marinakis has become the owner of the "DOL" and the "MEGA", we all understand the responsibility each has in this Chamber and how this government conducts itself. Yes, I repeat that I have called with him and mentioned to him and raised this relentless question, just like you: Mr. Marinakis sued me, sued the interrogator, sued the journalist. The isovite who did all this inviolably, with his own will in the Triantafylop, why didn't he sue him? An innocent man who is suddenly involved in a three-ton heroin trade by the one who would start the lawsuits or not? Did a isobite be afraid to eat a few more months in prison for slandering defamation? Finally, the authorities are required to investigate all 2 additional million sent by Mr Marinakis to the isovite without having anything to do with it. There is another major issue, which he did not know and came to my knowledge when I read the interviews at the "Zugla" show, which I submit, where the isobite clearly says: "The Kammenos has never blackmailed me. I would have sued him if he blackmailed me." [[At this point the Minister of National Defence - President of the Independent Greeks Mr Panos Kammenos presents for the minutes the above cd which is located in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So he mentions the isovite in the discussion with the Triantafyllos for a former Minister of the New Democracy, who tried to convince him to change his statements. Is that not worthy of justice investigation? The rule of law is not only a matter for the judges, but also for us of all citizens, ladies and gentlemen, and we do not adopt what is said by a isobite for heroin trafficking. Aren't we going to investigate them, though? The journalist in an unsuspected time is said to be blackmailed and at risk and if they are revealed prematurely before they are declared, before they feel safe for his family, he will be forced to take back what he has revealed and turn against the interrogators and judicial authorities. And he does it after two months that he's made revelations to the reporter. Do you know when? The next day that Triantafylopoulos knows all of this, he testifies as a witness to my defense after a Kurtakis lawsuit and addressing the D.A. of the seat speaks of the nine hundred pounds of heroin missing and which involves Marinaki the isovite. The next day, Giannousakis overturns everything he has revealed and turns against the interrogator and the prosecutor. Why, is that so? Is that how this goes? Ladies and gentlemen, I also put the question Sourla then for Koskotta.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u7	Mr President, please finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u8	I shall conclude, Mr President. I file the complaint that came on the anonymous and went to the Ice Bay Attorney's office with the three statements. Take the Giannousakis exam sheets, as well as take the company's transfers, which were there. [[At this point the Minister of National Defence - President of the Independent Greeks Mr Panos Kammenos presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I am saying all this because there is another matter here now. They try not only to involve a political party involved - and I am sorry that New Democracy is - but an entire group, just as Koskotas did and a dialogue, which was published between Kourtakis, the publisher of the newspaper PARAPOLITICA and Brendzos, the President of Olympiacos. In order for Olympics to understand how they put a shield on them, he says in: "Let us know who are Olympics, but also with extensions - that we will bring them there, that is, we want - we will reap them on their olympics, judiciary, tax collector, police, financial media people." You see that in trying to safeguard himself from the search for justice, which you have provided to him, it reaches the point of making the Olympiacos Panathinaikos subsidiary. We will not allow that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u9	Thank you. You have the floor, Mr. Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u10	The applause was too thick. That makes sense. After you arrived to applaud Maki Triantafyllos, who, three years ago in dance, you all found him for the video of Sakellaridis, and Kammenos dragged you to it, good for him! Minister, I am amazed at what you have said. I told you from the outset that we cannot judge here. If you have any evidence about Mr. Marinakis, you can take it to the D.A. and the interrogator. I imagine the Minister of Justice next to you will assure you that he has confidence in Greek justice. I guess you too. If Greek justice, as I have told you, considers Mr Marinakis guilty to rot in prison like every drug dealer. But you, here and in the presence of colleagues, did the trial of Mr Marinakis. You've taken him out as already controlled in drug trafficking, in oil smuggling and in various other things you've said. I'm sorry, gentlemen. A year ago you were not celebrating the competition for television licences, and you did not say how pleased you were that you were finally sanctifying the television scene and that the new television licenses were a great success of your Government? One of the four, who took the leave, wasn't it Mr. Marinakis, Mr. President? Are you going to drive us crazy? In your knowledge, in other words, you gave one of the country's four television licences to a drug traded and smuggled. And that, Mr. Cammene, was it what you called a resolution of the television scene and were the Members applauded underneath?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u11	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u12	And let me tell you you didn't know last year. Minister, I would ask you very much in your dentext - because I do not have a trilogy - to note my questions, because that is the meaning of parliamentary scrutiny and to answer them. Before you didn't answer anyone. You only did the Marinaki trial. I asked you what you were saying for twenty a minute with Mr. Yannosakis. What you told us here is twenty seconds. The other twenty minutes and forty seconds, what were you talking about with Mr. Giannousakis? Note the questions why you seem very cramped. Don't laugh at all. Don't laugh, Minister, and remember the day. In the end, I hope this case doesn't end up with the result that I think it will. As you know, a preliminary investigation has been ordered in this case. Justice is required to open your phone lines. I told you to 'please bring them to the House to testify for yourself'. Mr. Christoforides is the port inquisitive employee, who allegedly blackmails Giannusakis in the recorded conversations to involve Marinakis, to get out of prison, and he says to him "now it's your chance to make an enemy". Question and note: Do you know Mr. Christoforides? But answer us clearly here. Have you spoken to Mr. Christofordis all this time?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u13	You were in charge of him.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u14	And you were his boss. Did you know him?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u15	Please, Mr. Georgiadis, with the President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u16	When your phone lines are opened - if you are afraid and not brought to the House - will it appear that you have spoken with Mr Christofordis as well? If you have spoken with Mr Christofordis, it goes on to say that you have put to Christophorides the words he hears say. "I don't care," says Christofordis, the port employee "if he is innocent or guilty by Marinakis. I care to incriminate Marinakis and through it Mitsotakis for Tsipras to remain in power for ten years." So I ask you: Have you spoken to Christoforides on the phone in the controversial days? Third, have you spoken to Mrs. Giva? And as the Minister of Justice follows, do you, Minister of Defence, have the power to determine which prosecutor is going to go to what prison and what time? Did you do it? Before you said you did it because he was worried about his life.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u17	I didn't say that. I informed the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u18	We'll see when your phone lines open, because you seem to be afraid to bring them here. I say again to be informed: have you informed Mr. Tsipras? Note the question, Minister. Was the Prime Minister aware of your actions? Why am I asking, Mr President? This is where he held a whole trial, Marinaki. All right, let's assume that at the beginning of January and late January Mr Kammenos has been informed that Marinakis might be involved in drug trafficking. Did he let Mr. Tsipras know? If he had informed him, why did Mr. Tsipras in early May, just before the competition for 'DOL', have he seen Mr. Marinakis in the Mansion of Maximos? Didn't you have the mood, Mr. Kammene, to protect the Prime Minister from meeting in the Maximos Mansion from a man like the one you presented up there and applauded from below your MPs? So Mr. Tsipras at the Maximou House a month ago, Minister, Mr. Cammene, saw a potential drug dealer? Narcotics dealers see Mr. Tsipras at the Maximos Mansion? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So, when you think, Minister, please answer what we ask you and not tell us stories about wildlife. The Shiite didn't get any Mikalopoulos at that time convicted. He took it to the D.A. You didn't go to the D.A. You decided to call yourself, one, two, three, four, five, six, eight, nine, ten, eleven, twelve times! What did you say to him twelve times, Minister? Will you tell us? Will you tell us at last? Mr President, I almost cried when he said that Marinakis was using Olympiacos to protect his interests. I saw how much Panos Kammenos made the attack of Mr. Savvidis' organized Paktzides when you deleted his fine here in Parliament, with the vote of the MPs, unfortunately, and the organized PAOK came out and sweared Mitsotakis. I saw then how the Kammenos first came out and said "Isn't Savvides ashamed to put the Pakjids in front?" But now he's hurt about the Olympics. Wherever you're concerned... I'm reminiscing and closing. One, Mr. Tsipras knew or didn't know? If he knew, why did he meet Marinakis in all the charges you said? Secondly, will you give us lists of your telephone conversations to see if there was indeed a construction, even if - even worse - you were a spiral? Because, Mr President, you know that Mr. Kammenos does not know the entire Criminal Code. If there's more than three people involved in the construction, it's a spiral. And then you know - because Mr. Janakopoulos spoke - how many years is the prison? Twenty. So, Mr Kammene, answer what I ask you, rather than Koskotta, Sourla, Michalopoulou and Simitis. What were you saying twenty-two minutes? Did Tsipras know? Have you informed him? How does the convicted life-threatening drug dealer send you a message to your cell phone "he hasn't even been a prosecutor" and twenty minutes later in the black midnight he arrives there as a prosecutor? Who gave permission to open the prison at 12 o'clock at night to enter the prosecutor's office? The DA had informed her boss? Whose order was there that night? Why didn't the prosecutor take an interrogation, which at the time went with her secretary, but he didn't finally take a statement why he obviously didn't say what you had agreed to? Will you submit to Parliament the movement of your phone bills? I'm closing, Mr. President. I have listened to you, and I appreciate you very much, and I say this sincerely. You said in the morning in an interview "if Mr. Kammenos would go for the truth, that's all right". If, however, Mr. Kammenos was going because he wanted to prevent a businessman from buying the Labraki Journalist Organisation and in order to achieve his political purpose, to stay in power another ten years, he tried to trap a citizen of that country by abuse of power and by organising a service, then what do you have to do, Mr. Voutsi, with so many struggles on the Left for your partner in power? That's where you're going for the chair? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u19	Mr Georgiadis, do you object that, with your permission, the phrase... should be deleted from the Minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u20	No objections, no objections.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u21	I would ask that it be deleted from the Minutes. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u22	I knew Mr. Georgiadis as a good book dealer on television. As a defender of criminal cases, I hadn't met him. Your wages are worthy, Mr. Georgiades. Your wages are worthy, and I am sure you will be rewarded with many interviews in the media that Mr Marinakis controls.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u23	Mr President, this should also be deleted.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u24	But listen to something. Talks of mine, whatever you have, testify to them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u25	I don't.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u26	Speakers' talks of the New Democracy have been recorded by the Korons of the U.N.A. with Mr. Aimilios Kotsonis, as published...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u27	How do you know?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u28	They've been published online.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u29	Bring us the post.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u30	They've been published yesterday at the DOCUMENTO.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u31	Three years ago.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u32	You went and sat down at NAMMOS and the others with the rosary in your hand saw you oiled and kissed them. In fact, they said that anyone who is kissing well will be able to be elected and made ministers. In the conversation revealed, he clearly wrote "to become Minister of Sports, you must go through Marinakis". That's the catalyst. And I'm so sorry for your disgrace.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u33	Is that where the Contonis came from to be?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u34	Open all the phones you want. I'm talking from my phone and not from Pakistani phones. If I wanted to do any illegality, I'd talk from other phones. I'm talking from my cell phone, in public, and I'm doing what I have a duty to do.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u35	Give it to me, then.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u36	My duty is, when a prisoner comes in and says "I fear for my life and the life of my family and I want to denounce the above" not to protect him, but to protect the witness who "will give" the above, no matter how high it is, in whatever living room he has passed, no matter what he has shared. From there on, as far as the media are concerned, this government has not prevented anyone. Doll was swearing me, Mr. Psychair, and now he's gonna swear me, and tomorrow I'm sure. We are not afraid of those who curse us, as long as they pay, when they are convicted of slandering. They've gathered so many years in prison, all those people who will sometime be invited to pay for it. Be careful not to be in it too!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u37	Mr President, he has not answered any questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u38	Please! Ladies and gentlemen, the second question will be discussed under number 1041/19-6-2017 in the second cycle of the Achaias MP of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Theodoros Papatheodorou to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, on the subject: "Institutional interventions in the work of justice by Mr. Panos Kammenos". The Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights will answer Mr. Stavros Kontonis. Please, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, I have listened very carefully to what Mr Kammenos said. I am therefore addressing the Minister for Justice, who has the institutional responsibility to protect the functioning of justice. I'm making something clear, Minister. I do not adopt - and I say this in the first place - what is said by a isovici, neither by his statements nor by his interviews. So that will be judged by justice, Minister. And I imagine that we both share the same anxiety, firstly, that justice should be judged unaffected, secondly, that justice should charge the blame, and thirdly, that those who are guilty should go to prison. Do we agree? Good. So I think that in this case your responsibility is a little different from that which has been described all this time. Why am I saying that? Why is the government being controlled today? Why is parliamentary control over the Minister? Minister, for the first time in a long time do you know why the government is being controlled? For the existence or indication or the impression of a parapolitical and outlawing circuit, which seems to manipulate justice and meditate. That's why the government's being controlled. It's not checked because we've read some isobite reports. It's not controlled because we're in favour of businesswoman A, not B, or isovirus. The isovite, who gives what he gives and says he is blackmailing and allegedly blackmailing, ladies and gentlemen, is doing his job. The thing is the rest of them doing their job? And I'm saying this. What do we have here? What have we got all this time? Because we spoke last week, Minister, and I asked you to deny it. On the contrary, you said that it was well done and that justice would intervene. I therefore understood today that Minister Kammenos contacted the prisoner on his cell phone, from his mobile phone, as he just said, and announced a visit to the prosecutor. And that's normal justice, normal country! You said that before. You said that you told him on the phone - I don't judge it, but you said it, and we can see it in the Minutes - that he's coming to the prosecutor's office.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u40	I said I called the Minister of Justice to come to the prosecutor's office!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u41	You also notified the Minister of Justice. Very well. I repeat, ladies and gentlemen. This is a normal procedure in the context of procedural guarantees, and every citizen can do so - so the Minister said before - and also, all of that, to shine the truth! Let's go down. Has it not made you, Minister, an impression that this isobet has a mobile phone in prison, and indeed, from 'COSMOTE' takes a detailed list of his phone calls and, on his own initiative, gives these calls as well as the sms to newspapers? Do all this look normal to you? There justice has no problem! We're on. Prosecutor seems to be separating himself. Acts off-limits of competence. And there I think we have a problem, because from the very beginning, Minister, you have not found any flaws in this process. I am moving on to something else, which I consider to be serious. It is also very serious, Minister, that, if you look at all this, which I mentioned, if you look at this procedure, I want an answer. If you know what Mr Kammenos said, you can answer me with a 'yes' or 'no'. And another thing: Minister, don't all of this remind you of you a little bit of a mess, a mess of politics, a gang of prisons, a gang of justice? Do they not remind you of you, which cannot exist in a European state, of which you are a Minister of Justice? That's the question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u42	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate had taken place in detail last week, on the basis of a bill from the Ministry of Justice in plenary, and I am surprised at the way in which the honourable Members have today swept through a 'Spanish retreat' in the clear question of society and Parliament. So, ladies and gentlemen, if you were in front of a prisoner on this case, who tells you two things,'my life is at stake and I will die, as another seven witnesses were murdered in this case', and secondly, 'I want to reveal further evidence', what would you say to him? Would you tell him "because you've been sentenced to life for drug trafficking, I'm not talking to you, I don't know what you're saying, tell me somewhere else, find someone else"? What do you say? I am sure all the Members would say the very simple one. They would encourage this man in a thousand ways to submit the evidence, which he knows, and to provide the documents, which he holds, to the competent authorities. Do we all agree that we would do that? I'm still in an idealized situation, and I'm saying we'd all do it. So, the Minister of National Defence in this particular case why is he being prosecuted? For irregularities? For exaggerating zeal? You can say what you want. His duty, however, as Minister and citizen did so. He said to him "he gave these things to justice" and he obviously tried to encourage him, in any way he could at that time, to do what he had to do. But what is the sequence of events I spoke about last week in the House? The sequence of events, ladies and gentlemen, has nothing to do with either business interests or the auctioning of publishing groups, and I will tell you why. As regards your argument - not only yours, but the argument in general - that on 17 January, from what is perpetrated in these publications, he contacted the defendant, did he not mention anything about business activities and so on, apart from the fact that at the time, January, you heard something about the Doll auction? Did anyone know that Mr. Marinakis is taking part in the Doll auction? So what are you doing here? Mr. Comrade, it's the turn of events that I want you to see. So, what's going on here? This is the case: what Mr Kammenos was not aware of on 17 January, you are trying to face it when the auction was held, when Mr Kammenos no longer had any contact with the defendant. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Marinakis' claim for the takeover of the Dollar is being curtailed. It's co-conuting! So I tell you that what happened in January was done, the Minister and I immediately informed the public prosecutors. Mr Colleague, you are right about some of the things you have said. However, as regards whether we are in breach of the prison regulations, I had also told the committee, if you remember, Mr Papatheodorou, that I already ordered an inquiry, which has been carried out by a prosecutor. With regard to the complaints against the pre-investigation officer and the prosecutor, there is already an investigation at all levels by the appropriate prosecutor in Piraeus, if I am not mistaken. With regard to the complaints and documents given by the prisoner to Mr Triantafylopoulos and the competent prosecutor, there is already a public prosecutor's inquiry, and as I had informed you - I know that, through the Ministry, the legal assistance procedure has been activated. So where do you see any irregularities here? And are you talking about wrongdoing, when all I have mentioned is in the hands of justice, is it investigated by justice, as we have a duty to do? Because here, ladies and gentlemen, we have a prisoner, who in principle gives evidence and accounts and names persons. Watch what I'm telling you. It gives evidence, accounts and transfers. Will these be investigated in court? They'll be investigated. Then it changes the trophy and says: 'Some people are pushing me'. Are these going to be investigated? Of course they will be investigated. And they're exploring. Therefore, the justice that has been seized here is investigating everything and will end up in the truth. But I'm telling you something, which should trouble you. Among all the important and most interesting things that he mentioned were for a suitcase of 650,000 euros. This suitcase came to the Greek and it was found that this is the case. He also named persons and were certified by these checks, which the current prisoner said.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u44	Minister, you'll have a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u45	I shall conclude, Mr President. I would therefore like to tell you not to prejudge the investigations that justice is going to carry out. Everything is in the hands of judges. There's no way the truth won't shine. But I want to tell you something even with it. Mr Colleague, when did this orchestra of newspapers, which is being held to the detriment of a businessman, begins? It started a few days after the audit, carried out by the Economic Police at its offices. Here, then, we need to make something clear. We're all in this place. Everybody! Are the big economic operators and already media players not to be controlled? “ Or did they think that what they knew from previous governments will be continued by the present government? The present government will complete the investigation, as is the case with justice. And I tell you that justice will come to conclusions, and then we will see exactly who is being done, not drug dealers, but business traffickers in Parliament! We'll see about it!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u46	Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u47	Because, Minister, I don't have the same aesthetics, I won't talk about drug dealers. However, I will tell you this: I do not know whether there are business interests in this House. However, these lawyers, who will be audited on how and what their action was in this case, exist because you have just acquitted Mr Kammenos. Counsellors, then, exist. I have nothing to say but the chains that tie the ANE with SYRIZA must be very heavy. They must be very heavy, ladies and gentlemen, and you will see that in the next few years. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] So what I will tell you is this: the Minister spoke about a sequence of events. Come and see the sequence of events. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] If you're going to watch, why are you interrupting me?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u48	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u49	The sequence of events is that last week, in fact, when we discussed it, you spoke about encouraging the Minister. I tell you from the Minutes what you said. The second is, then, when we heard, when we read new dialogues, which I must tell you that I do not wish to read in the newspapers, because if justice did the right thing, there would be no such dialogue as there would be no record of a prisoner. Do you understand? Illegal recordings! Records of prisoners! With who? With ministers, prosecutors, when the prisoner treats, for me, he says that "I have recorded it", when the record seems - even a small child understands - that the person asking him asks him to record. I don't know how true this is. That's what I wanted you to disprove. That's where I wanted you to intervene in the sequence of events. As we speak of the sequence of events, there was indeed a previous publication, an interview that said the opposite. There seems to be the jury statements that say the opposite. So when we talk about an offense, we say that these things are coming to Parliament, and all this time justice had not intervened on your own mandate so that we do not have to talk about it today.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u50	But what do you say, Mr. Comrade?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u51	That's what I'm talking about. I'd like to say something else because you talked about the sequence. You know, I'm not going back, I've been going since we all found out. Why did we find out? Because we read it in the papers, Minister. Minister, does justice need the good intentions of the Minister of National Defence to do its job properly when you were the Minister of Justice and all this could come to you? Oh, no. Apparently, no. So you can explain to us in the sequence of events that this fits. Secondly, the prosecuting prosecutor of the courthouses of Paula, Korydallo or wherever - I do not know where the prisoner went - was aware of the visits of the prosecutor? Was she aware? Because that's how it had to be. Don't talk to me about irregularities, because when the superintendent is not aware, something else is happening. And that, I think your investigation will find it. We continue: Is the irregularity small, for example, if the prosecutor of prisons had no knowledge of all this? You know what? Here, in this Chamber, we will lose the measure. We have discussed, not procedural irregularities, essential problems. Do you know why I'm telling you this? Because you had to come here today and say "No, all this didn't happen", and if it happened to say "I've sent them to the prosecutor", not that, "I'm still doing..." etc. Since when do you know that? Since when do you know that January, for example, there has been a visit - that is what I ask you, the sequence of events, which you are talking about - a public prosecutor, without her supervising it - if she hadn't known - and until now, at the end of June, there has been no decision, but now you are doing the investigation? What for? 'Cause now they're out. That's why. And you may have known them before, because you cannot have known them when they have been lodged, Mr Minister, specific reports and you are the head of these services. Also, to date, since all this has happened and since you knew it, why did your colleague, Mr Kammenos, come and tell you - with the interrogator, who has not yet been bothered by the port, what has happened? Since then, when he came and told you, "Here's all this...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u52	He didn't tell me about the interrogation officer.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u53	He didn't tell you! He only told you about the D.A.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u54	No, he told me about the isovite.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u55	Just the isobite! That's right! Nothing else. So I would like to tell you this: if all this in the sequence of events - which you spoke about earlier - you had looked into on time, we would not be here today. You would have the guilty ones and told us that some people are going to manipulate justice. So to this day, we are still - since last week, where these things came to the public - looking for the possible guilty. Look at you: just when I talked about 'apara' before, that's what I was talking about. When I was talking about 'tribe' - why you did not accept it - I was talking about it. When I talked about'methods', that's what I was talking about. And on these, unfortunately, I did not get any answers, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u56	Thank you. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u57	Mr President, I began my speech by saying that the opposition on the subject has been swept through today 'Spanish retreat' and nothing more than reading the questions in the current question, which have been tabled and compared them to the racing questions that the honourable Member is trying to invent at this sitting. Nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u58	Read the question, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u59	I have said to you before - and I am referring to this House and I want society to hear it - that you seem to me selectively get what suits you. I told you at the first moment - and not today, not in plenary last week, by the committee - that as soon as this information has been received, the investigation continued - with the new information provided by the prisoner - on behalf of the public prosecutor. It's still going on. Where's the insanity here? There is here 'para' etc.Huh? Oh, no. As soon as he himself claimed the opposite, once again justice - without anything, does not need to intervene by any Minister of Justice, if you consider such procedures, I tell you...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u60	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u61	I'm very pleased. So if you take these into account, you will see that there is neither an intervention nor a need for intervention, much more. Because he has just filed complaints and reports of extortion, and so on, justice has been committed. Why does mine need intervention? Ultimately, I told you yesterday that I have ordered an investigation into the detention conditions of this person, on certain points, on which there are responsibilities and which will be attributed. But the question that makes me impression here is this: you come to Parliament and call for dialogues, which you read in newspapers and the Internet.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u62	On the contrary.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u63	...the moment you know that these dialogues, these publications are illegally documented in a process.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u64	I told you before.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u65	But I told you, you know that. Not to tell you it's illegally taken on evidence. You are therefore supporting a point of view - beware of where the lenient dishonest - is - in unacceptable means of proof, which any court will take and throw them into the bucket of unusable people, to hit the Minister of Defence, the government and 'whoever takes the ladders', according to the commonly called. I would therefore like to say to you, Mr President, that much is said here and there is a lot to be said. There are three levels of public prosecutor's investigation, which began and continued at all three levels without any political intervention. It is also legal under Article 30 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. There's no need for the D.A. orders when something happens in front of their eyes. I would like to tell you that as far as the statements, which have also been made public, have been received - to know them, ladies and gentlemen - since 2015. Maybe in 2015 Mr. Marinakis was taking Doll and we don't know about it? There, in statements, he says a lot of interest and interest - not in interviews, in statements - the reason for the prisoner. Those statements are found in the case-file handled by the competent prosecutor, who is also the head of the Piraeus Prosecutor and who normally conducts the investigation. Where do you see illegality and, after all, irregularities - why are there no illegality - on this issue? I would therefore like to assure you that justice is conducting the investigations and that all complaints - even the contradictions of the same person - will be checked up to an antenna. For the evidence, which he has given, the number of transfers and all relevant, we are already calling for cross-checking and confirmation. And on all these issues justice will speak. There is no doubt about it. However, what we need to keep is that, at last, in this place, everyone is controlled and no big economic operator or publisher is going to be found in the unavoidable. This is the government's promise to the Greek people and the government's promises, it keeps them to antenna!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u66	We move on to the fourth question under number 1042/19-6-2017 in the first cycle of MP II Piraeus of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr.Ioannis Ragos to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, on "Procedures for interventions in the work of justice in the Noor 1". Mr. Rabbit, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, as we speak as Golden Dawn, the Greek people will learn some truths and some names that were not mentioned. I was expecting the two previous Members, who tabled such questions, to dare to speak and say some other names. Because you know, in all this scandal that has been created over the last few days, unfortunately, it is not only Panos Kammenos, but also other people, which we will name, as we have done since June 6 from the Step of the House. And then, no one's minded. Here I would like to disprove both Panos Kammenos and Kontonis, the Minister, because they said that all this began on the 15th day of the month, which had some research and some checks at the offices of the businessman, the shipowner Marinakis. Yeah, they may have started then, because all the intertwined system that exists, maybe he started writing some things at the time. I will repeat, however, - and anyone who wants to see and confirm what I say, look at the Minutes - that the Golden Dawn on the 6th - at least nine days ago - had spoken from the Step of the House and said about these issues. In fact, we had said, before all this was made public, that we would - and we had asked - call for the lifting of the confidentiality of Minister Panos Kammenos, but not just. Because the question that we have raised and which we consider to be important is how the Minister of Kammenos arrived to have contact with the isovite. That's the point. And because Mr. Kontonis previously found easy opponents, he fooled them and told them that there was no irregularity and no illegality. Really, Mr. Condonne? How did Panos Kammenos arrive and have a conversation with Mr. Giannosakis? Through Mr. Triantafylopoulos? I don't think so. Do you know what we've learned and told it last time? That the one who contacted Mr. Kammenos was Mr. Phytrakis, who is Secretary General at the Ministry of Justice, responsible for the issues of penitentiary stores.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u68	I don't even know him.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u69	We know him.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u70	I don't even know who he is.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u71	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u72	We said, therefore, that there should be a lifting of telephone secrets both to Mr Phytrakis and to Mr Dulame, who you have put him in the ministry as well. Well, the involvement of the Ministry, Mr. Contonis, to name names.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u73	I don't know these people.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u74	I know them, Mr. Kammenos.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u75	I've never talked to them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u76	I know them. Let's get off the phone, see if they're the ones who had intervened...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u77	Mr. Kammenos, please. The question is...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u78	Why are you worried now? You did not speak with the previous Members. What do you want now?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u79	Please, Mr. Rabbit. Wait a minute. Today, we have parliamentary control. The question is to the Minister of Justice. Please, Mr. Kammenos, do not interfere unless there is a matter. You understand. Please, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u80	There's gonna be staff on the way to other things. So we are talking about these names. Here, the Minister says that there is no question and that there is no question. We say that this is a matter. If there is a withdrawal of phone secrets from these people, we will see who had supplied Giannousakis with cell phones, who had put him in a VIP cell, to have a good time and to have access to the Minister, and I don't know who else. So we start with the illegality and irregularities that exist and the fact that we said all this on 6th month: I have a vacancy report from Giannousakis, which I do not know if he is telling truth or lies. I don't care about that. I'm probably interested in it, but I'm not the one who judges it. The competent authorities will judge it. We want this as Golden Dawn. But I am telling you what I have in my hands, because everyone here was talking to you about newspapers. I therefore have in my hands a press report by Giannousakis on April 5, 2017 and a protocol number 768, which has gone to the Prosecutor of the Ice Award. He named inside that Minister Kammenos threatened him and told him to give...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u81	What about me? There's no such thing as that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u82	That's what Janusakis says. What can we do now? Make him sue.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u83	There's no such thing as that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u84	So he said, "If you want security for your family, tell us that this businessman, Marinakis, is involved, to clean up, and I guarantee you that at the appeal, your sentence will be dropped." That's what Giannousakis says with press reports on April 5th. Well, do you, Minister, Mr. Kontonis, who you've searched for the case and know it, now note when this is the report I'm telling you? Haven't you seen her? I've taken her and you, the Minister you're looking for, don't you know her?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u85	What I'm going to answer is my point.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u86	I see you guys taking note there and looking to find out what's going on. You don't know things well.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u87	I note, to give you answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u88	Please, Mr. Rabbit. You should know that there are reports by the President. They're not done on a personal basis. You know that. You've been here for years.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u89	Are you going to get me out of the Chamber, why am I not addressing the President, and ending this issue more easily and more quickly?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u90	What you're saying now is different. That's for once.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u91	Do I? Get me out, 'cause things are coming, they shouldn't.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u92	But now, to help the process, you won't be ping-ponging. With the President you will give all the information you consider to be necessary.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u93	On 5 April 2017, therefore, there is this message of Janusakis. These are things that no one else has ever said. Why hasn't the prosecutor intervened? Why has the Ministry of Justice not intervened, to see whether what Janusakis denounces is true or false? Why is this not done? So here's the irregularities and the illegality of the ministry we're talking about. So he says, "On January 17, 2017, at night, the Minister of National Defence, Panos Kammenos, contacted me..." - evening, on a mobile phone - "...and said that I would receive a visit from the Prosecutor of Piraeus. In fact, the Minister contacted the sergeant on the same night." He says in what's the name and I'll testify if he asks me. I don't want to involve any more people right now, just like I don't want to get involved in the Port. For me, these are the last wheel of the carriage. Here, others are involved. The porter who went to do the interrogation procedure, he certainly hasn't gone on his own. So let's leave the porters and the sergeants outside and look at the ministers. So - I say again - says Yannusakis. He also says - and this is a fact and everyone has seen it - "Being in jail the prosecutor at 11:30 at night..." Why 11.30 o'clock at night? Why didn't it go in the morning? Is it because the pressures that had been exerted that day and that night on Giannousakis were so intense that someone would believe that at that time Giannousakis had been broken and would have given the statement that everyone wanted? I'm asking now. It could be a mistake as well. At 23.30 a.m., Ms. Giva came in and refused to give the evidence to the gate. And that now if you look into it - the Minister has put some research into it - you will see that there is no name. But this is where you've all been, because you've all admitted that he's gone. I mean, if you didn't say it yourself, they wouldn't find the prosecutor's information. You've got her in here. But you opened your mouth and said: 'Yes, he went in'. And that the D.A. came in at 23:30 at night and sat by 3:30 in the morning, without writing her evidence, that's probably irregular. So you're fucked. You urged to say all this. Also, because Mr. Kontonis asked: 'If you know such a case, what would you say to this isovit? He's a human being, and he might know and tell some truths. Wouldn't you tell him to tell the truth?' Of course we would tell him to tell the truth, except we wouldn't threaten him. Because according to what Mr. Giannousakis says, he said that after all that happened, there was 24-hour police guard at his family's house, because they were afraid of a possible blow, some to hurt his own, he left this security, removed it from Mr. Giannousakis' house. So we wouldn't do that because Mr. Contonis asked. And we would make sure that man testify to what he really knows. Because anyone involved in drug trafficking has to accept the greatest of the penalties, and that is a questionable matter. But we must be clear here about what is going on and whether the ministers are acting in a legitimate or illegal manner.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u94	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u95	Mr President, I thought the honourable Member was aware of what had been raised with the two previous questions. It is politically interesting, however, that the right conflicts with the extreme right, who will make the best lawyer in Yannosakis, and who will appear in Parliament in defending what he has already said. I told you that this complaint, which you in a strange way - not inexplicable, but curious - you have adopted from alpha to omega, is being examined by justice. So what do you want here? You take a diverse opposing statement in the form of the Jiannosakis lawsuit with what he has said in an interview with a journalist and unilaterally invoke what he refers to in the lawsuit. What are you doing? Mr. Giannousaki's second-guessors are showing up? Are the first ones about you at all or are they bothering you? Because your interest in shipowners has shown it many times. Here, in this particular case, something needs to be cleared up. This one has filed press reports. Do you accept it? Do you accept the claims and those made in it? Here, it looks like you're reading...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u96	To answer, you're here. You're not answering.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u97	Please. You'll have the floor later. You'll come back.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u98	Giannousakis says, "Tafe Zaratustra, and worse." So we're telling you, leave the investigation procedure. Justice has already been seized of this complaint. There's already been an investigation.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u99	Since when?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u100	Since he's been filed. From the next one.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u101	No, no. You're lying.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u102	Mr President, this is where every limit is exceeded. It doesn't come to them that they came here with the Yannusakis lawsuit to make the lawyers of a man who, anyway, seems to suggest contradictory claims, not to say anything more stringent. Here, you come and above you are questioning that right now that I'm talking to you, an investigation is being conducted by the competent prosecutor. What else can we see? It's the falsification of reality. They are arguments of the same type that in Auschwitz there was a sanitary cleansing of the dead through the ovens of death. We heard the same thing about the Bridge killing that they were fighting about football. Today, we will also hear about this issue. I have nothing more to say, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u103	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u104	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u105	Mr. Rabbit, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u106	So, listen, Mr. and gentlemen, and judge why Contonis, the Minister here, is very nervous with my own question. Apparently, this motto report hasn't reached anyone, and he probably wanted to pass it... First of all, you're lying and we're gonna prove this one more time. You're saying we said if there's an investigation now. Of course, now that there's been an investigation. I asked something: Since when did this investigation start? Because I will prove to you once again and you will find that this investigation was started after 6 June, when we spoke about it from the Step of the House. We have no other way to talk. We who are with businessmen and shipowners and have very good relations, are not allowed to speak in a single form. So we have the Step of Parliament and we'll see you. On the 6th of the month, we went up and out of silence of the tomb. None of you talked. And if the newspapers weren't able to say all this, you wouldn't dare react and talk. You were forced to come and answer today, because the newspapers said it. We did Parliamentary control within the House, and you tell us about Auschwitz, Condone. You're messing with it. So to continue, listen to why Condonis is in a difficult position. Because here - and I say it so people can hear it for the first time - the name of Kontonis from Yannosakis also appears. Because everyone so far was talking about Kammenos alone and we know. Giannousakis also blames Kontonis. I don't know if it's true or lying. I repeat it for everyone to understand it. But I'm saying that Contonis is also involved. And he says in particular - because the others who asked you and you had easily found them in the answers - "The transfer made from the Aylon prisons to the Chalkida prisons...". Giannousakis, while he was in prisons of Paul to protect himself, according to what he says, after he failed to testify against Marinakis, was also taken to the prisons of Chalkida, for which he himself says there is a risk of his physical integrity. Let's judge this. And says Giannousakis: "I tell you that my transfer was not random at all, but it was done by order of Kontonis, trying together, that is, with those I mention, to force me to make a statement against the President of Olympiacos, Vaggelis Marinakis and to get him into a story that has nothing to do with it." Here, then, was the name of Mr. Kontonis, because so far he has been happy - unpleasant, but good for himself - to try to defend only Kammenos. This is where you have to defend yourself now. It will prove all of this. And he continues for other natural things and renames the name of Contonis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u107	Please a little bit of the native. I've said it before. "Yourself", "like", "you've played it, you've got it, you've got it, you've got it, etc. Do you realize that...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u108	You're right about the plural, because there's no one involved in the scandal. A lot of people are involved.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u109	Yeah, but that's no way to talk in here. I guess you know that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u110	He's honoring me to speak that way.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u111	You'll stop me if I breathe correctly or not in a while. We're on.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u112	I don't. For God's sake.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u113	Oh, don't you do it yet? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u114	Still not.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u115	What do we hear? You don't have many days. You're about to go to 0.28% where you were. Of course, he did not act alone, he says, but upon orders from senior prosecutors and political persons. So here, he's involved. Other people are called, and possibly many SYRIZA and ANEL MPs do not know these. He doesn't go to say that he's involved in this process. But here, things are being learned and to see what they are - I say again - real of all that, because the name of a minister is not involved. There are two ministers involved. And Mr. Kontonis could have intervened in the whole process with an institutional role to see what has happened. But here we see other things. We see pressures, threats and everything else. I will come back to emphasise again that there must be a withdrawal of the telephone secrets from these people that I have told you. Previously, the two gentlemen here saw it charming for the Phytrakis and the Dulame I was saying. If there's a break of secrecy, you won't be laughing at all. Of course, Mr Kammenos is not discussing whether or not there is any confidentiality. I repeat that he has the right to speak with an isovite inside the prisons with a VIP cell, that's another piece. Finally, Giannousakis says again here - these are all his, but they have not been heard by anyone else - that when the prosecutor went on 23:30 and pushed him four hours to make a statement he never took, then at 3:00 the hour called Minister Kontonis and talked about the course at that time, because "Giannousakis didn't break, he didn't give what we thought he would give and how we will move now." These are the questions raised by the Golden Dawn and we want answers from them. Finishing.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u116	You have no question to Mr. Kammenos and you will force him to take the floor. You don't have a question. Through the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u117	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u118	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u119	Mr. Contonis, you will be given the floor in a moment. Today it is a parliamentary control on a specific matter and to a particular Minister. The fact that you have referred publicly to another name, to another case and to another minister who follows the procedure, you realise that it cannot be clarified in the Chamber. I would therefore ask you to delete your last question from the Minutes. You did what you wanted, it sounded publicly and we consulted. But it is not possible to carry out one of the parliamentary procedures involved. I would also ask you, with your permission, for what you said earlier about Mr Kontonis to be deleted, because the Minutes ask for them to be used and used by a number of people.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u120	All right, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u121	Thank you. Mr. Contonis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u122	Ladies and gentlemen, one is the question and I will address it to you, Mr Rabbi:
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u123	Will you ask me a question?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u124	Watch out, Mr. Rabbit, what I'm going to ask you. Will you get answers, do not worry: Do you adopt what Mr Giannousakis says in his message? Do you adopt them? Because if you adopt them, it means that you are convinced by him that this was the case. So that means that you have confidence in him, perhaps you have other relationships, which I do not care about, nor do I have any desire to discuss them here. Do you adopt them? So, what he says is that he was calling the Minister of Justice at 3:00? Do you adopt it?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u125	Do I have to answer that?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u126	Do you adopt it?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u127	Minister, you, too, through the Bureau, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u128	I approve Mr Giannousaki's message report. That's a fact!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u129	It is clear, Mr President, that there is a reference in this House, which is being examined by justice. And they adopt facts, which are impossible to know. How do they know if anything happened? Unless Giannousakis has told you, either by cell phone or by payphone, or you visited in jail. I would like to tell you, therefore, that Giannusakis and another prisoner had absolutely no favorable treatment, by decision of the Ministry of Justice. They were protected witnesses by decision of the Prosecutors' Public Prosecutors or the Council of Piraeus Narcotics.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u130	Then why did he go to Chalkida next?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u131	Let me tell you. Nobody cared about him, like you said falsely. There was a decision of justice to be under this regime in the particular detention store. And when the reasons, by decision of the prison council, went on his way to the prison that they should normally be, to serve his sentence until he was tried for the second time. You may lodge a request for documents and receive them as provided by law. But today with what you have done, you have exceeded every limit, lying again, because it is impossible to know about it. Therefore, whether you imagine it and find ourselves in a situation of extreme fantasy or build a false claim on the grounds of knowledge. By reason of knowledge, i.e. lying!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u132	Are you questioning the vacancy report? You're lying now. You're in a difficult position.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u133	Please, be quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u134	Congratulations! You've made a great success. You mentioned something that I do not need to repeat, that the particular contact of the prisoner with the Minister of National Defence was mediated by the Secretary General of the Ministry of Justice and the person designated, Mr Dulamis. How do you know that from?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u135	I know!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u136	But you know it!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u137	I know!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u138	In other words, if you are called by justice, you will say 'we know these and we know them from there'. So you don't know that. You fly a word in the air and you say 'the telephone secret will be lifted'.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u139	Of course, we will ask justice to be lifted!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u140	So you don't know anything! Are you slandering public officials and political persons, who have absolutely nothing to do with this case...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u141	Are you afraid of lifting? If you're not afraid, ask for a phone call to be lifted!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u142	Mr. Rabbit, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u143	Therefore, you are slanderers, that is, far right and neo-nazi, what you are always what you are!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u144	Remove phone secrets you who are not afraid!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u145	Please don't shout!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u146	We continue, ladies and gentlemen, with the seventh with number 933/2-6-2017, a topical question by MP II Athens of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdou to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, concerning the co-decision of children. Here, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u147	What day has this question been identified, Mr President? To go back to a conversation we've had many months ago, and I've done twice more with your predecessor. It is not the responsibility of the Opposition to prefer ministers - and I will not do so - but I would like to tell you in this Chamber, Minister, that your predecessor was very close to having accepted the reluctances of the Opposition to guarantee the Greek family law of children. We have an international framework, an international legal order, which has specific texts concerning the rights of the child. We have the international Convention on the Rights of the Child, we have the conventions relating to fundamental rights at European and international level. It is becoming increasingly positioned in the legal classes of other advanced, civilised countries to establish the conspiracy of children. I will say in my denture if there is any objection to this, on what occasions. The kid's the report. The child is the point where all the other issues of the legal classes will be dealt with, not the parents, or the values that alpha or beta politicians have. And we have a family law that was pioneering when it changed in 1983. Since then, it remains the same and the needs for its change are all over the world, all over the country. In these needs, there is also the question of conscientiousness, for it is the child’s right to have the upbringing that both his parents give him, to live with both his parents and not to separate anyone. And I've told you the last time we discussed there is a legal custom, a legal practice, and I want you to tell me whether as Minister of Justice you have statistics that conflict with what I'm about to tell you, which, in the vast majority of cases, gives the child an upbringing to the mother, and the father is deprived of, so that a series of dramas are created. We had talked months ago if you'd been willing to make any changes. You told me you didn't, because you don't agree. You also informed me later that there are also some texts of eminent urbanists helping your opinions. I have seen them, as I have seen the texts that are contradicting their views. The question is not what scientists say. Maybe the alphas say, maybe betas too. The question is what the international trend is and what your mood is from now on is. I've asked four questions. I have tabled two amendments with Mr Amyras. You weren't here in one place, but on the other, you were here, and you told him you weren't accepting it. I'm bringing you this one more time. I do not want to think that as far as I am concerned, but I want to believe that there is room for an improvement in family law in this regard.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u148	Please, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes. My request, because we are completely out of time, and then we have the debate on the question of the New Democracy, to keep the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u149	Mr President, I had the pleasure of responding to Mr Loverdos a few months ago. It has not changed anything either in terms of arguments or the general view. I want to present to the House today a letter sent by my professor, a former dean of the University of Athens and a well-known lawman, Michael Stathopoulos, in the "Recipients' Newspaper", as well as an article of this year, Mr. George Papageorgiou, on these issues. I'd ask you to take a look at them. [[At this point, Minister Stavros Kontonis presents for the minutes the above-mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] As far as the issue we are talking about is concerned, I said last time, Mr Loverdos, that unfortunately some lawyers who are either abroad - particularly in England - or who have received an Anglo-Saxon education on these issues are confused by parental care, which is carried out jointly by both parents. The judgments of the courts - as you have asked me to do so - are very few, although I think it is difficult to find, because now the electronic system of interconnecting the political and criminal courts of the country is being run, because for years it has been 'traveling' worse than the Stock Exchange, but we will make an effort from the Ministry of Justice to have a picture of you as well - which they hold in their operatives that a parent has been practicing parental care. But there are too many decisions that give the mother diligence. I told you last time that the trend of case law is no longer in advance and without suffering giving the mother diligence, but weighing the interests of the child, which is consistent with the letter of the law. I would therefore like to stress once again that in our own civil law, in particular family law, custody is a sub-class of parental care. In some of its appearances diligence cannot be broken down. If you want to say and claim that a child on Monday, Wednesday and Friday will stay with his mother and the other days with his father, you realize that this is a dissolution for the child. Secondly, there is here the question that the child, apart from the place where he resides, must change other things. So we make life more or less difficult for him. Think, what school will he go to if his father lives in Athens and his mother lives in Piraeus, for example? I am not telling you a more extreme example, one living in Athens and the other living in Zakynthos or abroad. You see, then, that diligence, as referred to in Article 1518 of the Civil Code, is something that cannot be broken down. And I told you last time that we are unfortunately reaching extreme situations, when the legislator determines who will be the parent who will exercise custody and who will be the parent in whom the judicial decision reserves communication. That is where many problems are created, Mr Colleague, because, while it is defined as a parent who is diligent, this parent in some cases does not accept the right to communicate with the ex-husband or ex-husband. This is how one of the two parents is somehow excluded from his contact with the child. There are, therefore, the judgments of the courts which create a legal basis, precisely so that these judgments are not condemned and applied exactly as envisaged. If we can see - at this point I am telling you - that something more can be legally foreseen, we will not hesitate to do so. Another subject, however, is conscientiousness. The question is that the parent who does not have custody, the right to communication, should exercise the right of self-determination unnecessarily. There to hear your views, see what the situation is. I think that in a context of civilised people, two spouses who break up must agree on these issues. But, where there is no such agreement and we have circumvented the judicial decision on the right to communication, there we can improve the provisions of the law, so that the person who does not allow his or her child to communicate with the ex-wife feels that he is controlled by the law and that he is in front of the law.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u150	Thank you. Mr. Loverdos, you have the floor for your dentistry for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u151	Minister, this is not a question when parents agree. When parents agree, everything is solved without disputes and without courts. The point is when they disagree. Here comes the legal order to solve problems, as far as reasonable people communicate. What am I telling you? I say that the perception of difficulties, as you mentioned them, for example, divides a couple and changes the place of residence - and the difficulties of conscientiousness itself do not create certainties that it is wrong as a institution. Where does that come from? As I have told you in my prototype, it appears that all the context relating to the rights of the child, which is defined by the national legal classes, ends up - not only in the Anglo-Saxon, but everywhere - in making the term 'consistency' with the alternating residence the rule. I will also report to you countries where this is done.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u152	It's not like that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u153	He's reacting to the old here. And to be specific, all the parties and yours have agreed that what I tell you is right. I've asked four topical questions. I'm not coming back. Now, if you bring in the new family law, that's where we'll talk about it. There's no point in bringing something you don't want to do. But I will mention the countries, because you have spoken of Anglo-Saxon. These are: France, Belgium, Denmark, Sweden, Switzerland, Germany, Austria and many other countries outside Europe, countries which are large and serious. Look at that. Something means to these people, to conscientiousness, something means to the changes that are taking place in Family Law around the planet. Listen to it. You may find very useful arguments that reverse your thinking course. Ask an old judge and tell him, as you said to me: “Look at it. Is it reasonable to be Monday elsewhere and Wednesday elsewhere?' When I heard them in the first conversation I had done years ago, I said what you said. I'm a father, too. I said: 'How is that possible?' But then I see that the findings of science and not of law - the law receives the findings of medicine and psychology - are vice versa to what you say. There is another tendency now, an international trend. She says, yes, despite all the difficulties, for the good of the child, conscientiousness is much better. I insist that we discuss the rights of the child, because it is often misunderstood as if one were looking at it from a father's perspective. We see it from the child's perspective. If you want to see it from parental point of view, there is a bias, Minister, at the expense of the father, and there are dramas produced by the lack of communication of people, which anyone who has an open mind and open ears, hears and understands and incorporates them in his argument. If you have another third institution, I'll take him. I hope that something else will be invented between what we both say and the new family law. But from my own research, I don't understand that there might be a different way than the ones we're talking about. Either you accept conscientiousness or there is no other way to help society in these moments where couples live these unpleasant developments first for the child and then for the parents themselves.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u154	You still have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u155	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Comrade, I repeat. There is no confusion between the concept of parental care and diligence. You mentioned states that have the same rule as us, and I refer to the parental care that is taken together. Few, I told you, are the cases where the courts rule out one of the two parents from parental care. And don't stay in unwitting translations of legal concepts, which don't render what's true in Greek law and what's true in foreign law. And please, take care of these little issues. A couple who have divorced, either on a case-by-case or consensual basis, jointly exercises parental responsibility. The diligence, I say again, cannot exercise it in common, for which I have analysed you. I analyzed it for you. And you tell me now: "But science." But science - mainly not legal science - says precisely about the stability of the house, about the unfrequent change in the residence of a young child and so on. In any case, there may also be new locations. This does not mean that they have become majority or that they are decisive. On the contrary, they remain these scientific findings to a vast majority in the direction I have told you. Secondly, you said: 'But the problem is when they disagree'. Of course, the problem is when they disagree. When they disagree and cannot agree which of the two parents will exercise custody and who will communicate, then this issue, Mr Loverdo, is solved by the court, which weighs the interests of the child and not the interests of the parents. The judge who judges weighs the interests of the child and says: 'You will exercise custody and you will have the right to communication'. And this right of communication may also be extensive, especially if there are two spouses living in the same city. If it's in the county, even better. One parent may see his child some days this afternoon. The problems, I told you, start and end where the husband who exercises custody. And it doesn't have to be the wife. Could be the husband. And I told you that the judgments of the courts in recent years have changed direction. They do not single-dimensionally consider that only the wife can exercise custody.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u156	Unless she's in baby age.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u157	Unless the kid's in baby age. That's right. Mr. Athanasios knows about it. If he is in childish age or is early infancy, he does need his mother. I would therefore like to tell you that any recycling of this debate takes into account things and legal concepts that have been resolved in our fairness. And I honestly tell you that our family law is excellent, like the whole Civil Code. It is an excellent piece of legislation, in particular the Family Law, which I said to the committee the other day, which we discussed in the final vote in Parliament, that some changes will be made to the adoption issues and the related legislation. Because that's where we can improve. Look at that. I would once again say to you that I think this debate has been exhausted here in Parliament. I came here today to repeat what I had told you last time, but also to present opinions on different legal aspects, which I hope you will take into account, and Professor Stathopoulos and Ephetis Papageorgiou. Please take these things into consideration wherever possible. In addition to what I have told you, I think there is no longer any field of argument and more to add. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u158	Thank you, too. And we move to the first with number 1679/2-12-2016 question of the cycle of petitions and questions by MP Xanthi of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Gregorios Stoyannides to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights concerning temporary judicial protection of fired. Please, Mr Stoyannides, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u159	Mr President, in advance, I would like you to give me two minutes of my denunciation, because I cannot complete the question, because it is legal in nature and the issue needs to be properly developed. Thank you. Minister, I address this topical question to you, in order to give the opportunity to reach a final solution with the adoption of a relevant legislative provision on the matter before us, as to whether the court on a matter may order as an insurance measure the temporary employment of the worker in the event of the employer's default for acceptance of his work. The issue has become of enormous social importance, given that complaints of employment contracts are now being raised, which are subsequently deemed void by the competent courts, i.e. cases where temporary judicial protection of workers by re-employment until the final or provisional enforceable judgment in the main case appears to be absolutely essential. In accordance with the provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure, as currently in force and applicable, the court in the context of the proceedings for interim relief has the right to order all appropriate measures in the light of the circumstances and aims at ensuring or maintaining the right or regulating the situation, provided that the measure does not go to the satisfaction of the right. However, whether or not the employer's obligation to temporarily accept the work of the irresponsible dismissal is questionable, since the case law has been divided for many years. For that very reason, therefore, I believe that the relevant legislative intervention by our Government is necessary to resolve this issue. According to the current theory, of course, but also in the caselaw, the re-employment of the allegedly unremunerated worker is not the satisfaction of the right, since the legal contract of employment is only temporarily put into operation until the dispute over the regular action and thus prevents the deprivation of the immovable legal relationship, which entails the risk of irreversible decisions at the expense of the worker. Consequently, according to the prevailing view, in the event of the termination of the contract, the employee’s claim against the employer to tolerate the supply of his services is a temporary legal protection, in accordance with Article 731 of the Code of Civil Procedure. This is in line with both the constitutional requirement for the protection of the personality and the right to work of the employed person and the very nature of the insurance measures, without having to be put to a worse stand by one of the subjects of the employment relationship and the trial, because this also runs counter to the Constitution and the general principles of law, which, like our own, are designed to protect mutual interests. Moreover, this request does not constitute a condemnation of the defendant in a declaration of will, since, in the application in question, the employer is not asked to consent to the drawing up of a new contract of employment, which would, of course, constitute a declaration of will, but is required to accept the applicant's work on a provisional basis on the general terms of the work in force prior to the complaint. Finally, it should be noted that the view which, in general and without exception, refuses to grant temporary legal protection poses the risks of delaying the award of justice exclusively to the worker, whereas the view that it is legitimate to take interim measures with the objective of the employer's obligation to accept the employee's services is aimed at a more equitable distribution of the risks arising from the uncertain outcome of the judicial struggle. Such a fair distribution shall ensure the conditions to be met for the provision of temporary judicial protection. In this context, the judge must weigh the applicant's conflicting interests and in that their application and weighting will depend on the assessment of all the circumstances in the particular case. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u160	Please, finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u161	However, the opposite argument, i.e. the null and void measure of insurance, leads to the right being satisfied, as it constitutes a conviction in a statement of will and creates marginal situations, is strong, as it is undermined by the constant change in the legislative framework. In 2013, the legislator tried to remove the divisive, adding Article 732A to the Code of Civil Procedure, which stated that in the event of the employer's pride in accepting the worker's work, the court may order as an insurance measure the worker's temporary employment until the adoption of a final decision on the main case. A few months later this provision was abolished. Obviously, employers' interventions have been intense, with the result that the government itself, which, initially on the right legal basis, wanted to resolve the issue, then chose to restore ambiguity in order to feed back on the legal weaponry of the employers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u162	Thank you, too. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u163	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to say that we have indeed considered whether the provision should be re-established in its earlier form, because they may accuse many of this government, but the previous government has changed in exactly the opposite direction a specific provision within a very short period of time. We are accused of being sluggishly legislated, but I think that better proof than this legislation on rough legislation will not be found again. Look, here we have to look at these issues just as they are referred to in the reply given by the Ministry responsible by Minister Ahtsoglou. There's a problem. On the one hand, the worker is alienating himself for a period of time from his work and, on the other hand, if it is considered that he must return - unfavourable for him in his work after a period of time, completely negative for his professional career and, on the other hand, if it is decided that he must return to work, the employer must pay wages which the worker has not provided. Look at this how life brings them! There are reactions from employers' organizations that say we are inviting ourselves to a dubious court battle at the end to pay wages. You realise that this creates a problem both for the worker and the employer. My personal opinion is that we must return to the original provision, as was the case before it was amended. In any case, there is now a pending bill in the Parliament of the Ministry of Justice. It is at the stage of processing and will be introduced into the committees after processing. If we consider it mature, in cooperation with the co-legislator, then we will move to legislative change. That's what I can say right now. Thank you, Mr President. I do not think we need any further debate on this matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u164	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Stoyannides, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u165	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you. You understood the issue correctly. Indeed, unfortunately, the two regulations of 2013 aggravated the situation, rather than improved it. This contradiction in the resolution has always existed, as has discernment. Unfortunately, in 2013, while it was right to make the first arrangement that said it was not a right-wing satisfaction, the same government, six months later, with another Minister of Justice, came and changed the provision and created all these problems to the detriment of workers. If in Greece the trials were done very quickly, then we wouldn't need the insurance. But, as you know, reality is quite different. There are trials that can reach five or six years for a redundant employee. Then, if justified, the big problem is also for the businessman, because he has to pay the payroll, but also to lay off the other employee who took the job of dismissal. It is therefore a double problem. That is why I believe that if tomorrow's provision comes back as it was with insurance, it will serve both sides. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u166	Here, Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u167	Mr President, as I said before, I do not need to go into second place. I think we understand the issue after it has been implemented and the reactions. When I talk about reactions, I do not always mean negative reactions, but the opinions expressed on this issue, because you have quite rightly agreed with what I said, namely that there is a problem for the worker. Sometimes there is a problem for the employer as well as for the third worker who has been recruited as the original worker. What should be done there, reverting first to his work? We will therefore look into it until the final vote by the plenary on the bill, which is pending at this time for processing in the CEN. We will also have the decisions and will perhaps legislate in that direction. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u168	Thank you, too. We shall now proceed to the next topical and urgent debate. The first question will be discussed under number 1067/20-6-2017 of the First Circuit of the Radical Left Coalition, Mr. Andreas Rizzoulis, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: ‘Integration of the HRC 3(a)/OEC 1047/26-10-2012 for zero participation in medicines and consumables for patients with end-stage heart failure and disability rate equal to or greater than 80%’. The Deputy Minister for Health will answer Mr. Paulakis. Please, Mr. Rizzouli, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u169	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, my question has two arms and, in particular, concerns the list of diseases which, because of the degree of disability, should have free consumables and medication. The first part concerns patients with severe heart failure who have already implanted aid devices or permanent pacemaker and defibrillator. Mostly for the first case, the cost of these patients is very serious, in that they also have consumables with the help device and I don't know why 2012 was excluded from the list. However, the question is whether you intend to go to an amendment to the 2012 CYPD, so that these patients, and especially, as I said, the first part of the patients who have the external aid device, can take their consumables and medication free of charge. In any case, we are talking about over 80% of disability, and they must not have this horror, I would say, weight. The second part is about your intention and when to declare the Single Health Regulation of the EEAS, which may include patients, who I do not mention now, and diseases, which I do not know, but were not provided for by the previous NSA in 2012 and have remained outside the possibility of taking their things and consumables free of charge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u170	Thank you, too. Please, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u171	Mr. Rizzoli, thank you for the question. Indeed, we are in a phase of the final processing of the Single Procurement Regulation of the EEA, where we change the logic. The logic is: disease and what it is entitled to. The logic is not what existed so far, which was: sickness and so much I give. That's what's going together. That is why we have taken the big step for the signing of contracts between the EEAS and all the companies that supply this health material to patients who have so far been charged with it, who have submitted the papers and received the money from the EEAS. Now that's cutting this. There was a strong and strong resistance from many sides to this thing. But I will just give you one example. For films and sugar pins we gave about 92 million to them last year as payments to the insured who submitted the invoices to the EEAS. By making a view, seeing how much the hospitals buy and how much EOPY pays, we should instead pay $25 million instead of $45 million. In other words, if we were to buy the same number of these consumables with the prices we pay for the hospitals - and that is where we have not yet fully checked the prices - we should not give 92 million, we should have given 45 million. That is why we have made the reduction this year - not at this level, of course, because we want to cover also uninsured - the amount that exists as expenditure on the EEA in this matter. The same occurs in too many categories, because the way the EKPY was made before is who has the greatest tooth, the biggest tooth to pass a layout that covers it. We have put scientific committees, EEA committees, we have got people to work out, and we are in the final phase. In fact, in very few days' time, the President of the EEAS sends it to us to see it before it is translated into a ministerial decision. The logic is what I told you. As to the first question you're saying, which is not about many patients in Greece and who have a serious problem with myocardial disease, which have implanted left ventricular aid devices or some other techniques, etc., we clearly think they should be to them, who will not pay their consumables and whatever they need. For the second question you're asking, for the more than 80% disability, for zero drug participation, this applies to some, does not apply to all categories. These lists will be supplemented on the basis of the guarantees we will have to accept. However, our effort is all the real chronic and severely ill, as a measure of social compensation and all that the population is currently attracting, to be able to have as low as possible. I don't know if it's gonna be zero to everyone or if it's 10 percent. This will come in the final form that the EMCDDA will take and there will be a consultation period. But we are moving in this direction. In the first, I certainly answer you positively, in the second, depending on the category and type of materials.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u172	Mr. Rizzouli, here, you have the floor for your dentistry for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u173	I would like to make a clarification, Mr President. I just didn't mention it. Indeed, and especially in the case of patients who have an external aid device - for them it is actually the question - they are fifteen people throughout Greece, it is not more. And maybe for the reasons you said, 2012 could not get in and people really get sick. For the rest, okay, we're fast waiting for the new directory to come out, so thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u174	Thank you, too. We continue with the eleventh question under number 942/6-2017 of the Second Cycle of the New Democracy MP Christou Bukorou to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The situation in the Second Pathological Clinic Volos". Here you go, Mr. Buquore, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u175	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, today we have fallen into heavy papers and in heavy question names, but let's see this "drinked" question about the 2nd Pathological Clinic of Volos Hospital. I imagine you will have been informed that there the workers of all levels are protesting about conditions and images of third world affairs. You are surely aware that the "Akolopoulos Hospital of Volos" consists of two wings, the state-of-the-art and the old wing of Volos Hospital. It's not about the new wing, it's about the old one where the Second Pathological Clinic is housed. What I am referring to in the question, Minister, is not my own words, are words of the workers, which are also supported by the information note sent to the administration of Volos Hospital and the former coordinator of the clinic. As you can see, the problem is timed: Double hospitalization rooms have been converted into triple beds, reminiscent of sardines patients. Recently he had to interfere with cardiologists and clinic doctors for a heart attack, a patient who was hospitalized, and it is sufficient to tell you that they did not fit the recovery machines and the doctors needed to overload the beds. The worst thing, though, Minister, is that the single-bedded insulation rooms have been converted into double hospital rooms and many times patients, who have contagious illnesses, share the rooms with other patients, who are hosted, in these circumstances double rooms. There's a toilet for all the staff at this clinic and for patients and visitors. I do not think that these are images which honour the country's crisis, for a nursing establishment, which serves hundreds of thousands of permanent residents and thousands of visitors, mainly during the summer months. I'll come back with more evidence in my denture.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u176	Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u177	Aren't you saying everything together to answer everything together? Well, Mr. Bukkoro, the story of the Second Pathological, from what I was informed, is one of the attributes made by the previous administration and which we are called upon to resolve and resolve, that is, to say, a little bit of history, why some things didn't fall out of the sky, right? They didn't happen in the last two or three months. The second Pathological is housed in the old ward of the hospital. Right? It comes from a clinic forty of a bed, which was transformed into a renovated part of the old wing. This renovation was carried out through an RCF. The transfer decision had been taken since 2014 and was transferred on 12-2-2015 on the basis of the previous management decision, which continued and then managed the hospital. There was a difference, that he had thirty-one beds the renovated, that is, a 40-bed clinic, we took her to a new room, only he had thirty-one beds. So what did they start doing exactly why there was import pressure? They were starting to make the single doubles, the doubles, the triple quadruples, to release the pressure they had. This thing started to change after the administration changed. The first thing I know they're doing is they're pulling people into other clinics. This happens in many hospitals, with forty organic beds, but they may have more pressure and try to put patients in other clinics. Also, the other thing that the administration has said is to give the second Pathological 10 beds from the current Psychiatry, which is a floor above it, as far as I know, which will be transferred in the autumn to the new wing, which is rebuilt through the ESR 'Psychure' programme. Now, what you say about one toilet doesn't apply, from what the commander writes here. They're eleven fully functional toilets that the clinic has.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u178	On another floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u179	No, in the existing second Pathological, there are eleven toilets for the public, which are completely functional. This, in terms of the history of the Second Pathological. For the rest, I'll answer you later.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u180	Mr. Buquoore, you have three minutes of dentology, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u181	Thank you, Mr President. Honestly, Minister, I've been waiting for this regression of yours in the past. After all, it is all the previous to blame, in the view that you are always expressing here in Parliament. You said, Minister, that all these problems have not been created in the last three months. I want to remind you, with all due respect, that you are ruling two, three years, not two, three months now. There's a lot of time going through, you know, without realizing it. From there on, you said about the change of placement that took place in 2014. In 2015, in 2016, this wrong estimate, as you showed it, could have been corrected. You're talking about 11 toilets. It's on another floor, Minister. There's a toilet on that floor. I told you that the previous coordinator of the retired clinic did a detailed report on management with the problems I mentioned, which are witnessing workers and patients even today, three years later. I'm asking you if you're studying a new clinic placement, and you're telling me we're gonna give ten beds from Psychiatry, which will be transferred. You understand what it means to the patient's hospitalization the multitude of a high-pressure clinic, - you know that much better than I do, don't you? - to be on other floors, in other clinics. How to coordinate this work, no one knows it. Of course you didn't tell us anything about the degrading of this phenomenon, which forced...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u182	I told you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u183	You'll tell us in your dentistry, Minister. You didn't tell us anything about the de-escalation of this phenomenon, which forced doctors, to find it hard to approach the cardiological incident that occurred, the arrest, and almost lost man. What do you think, Minister? That I suddenly came here to make an opposition? You're being told by the administrations with documents. We live in our country, because we visit both the hospital and the clinic, and we understand exactly what is happening and under which conditions doctors, nurses and paramedical staff work. So, Minister, I tell you that they are not good and that compared to the very next new wing they have nothing to do with them. I am saying this very simple and I have not come here in any opposition. I came to discuss whether it would take the way to solve a problem involving hundreds of patients at Volos Hospital, including workers, your doctors, nurses and paramedical staff working under very difficult conditions. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the House is occupied by Mr. SYRIDON LYKOUDES.]] And I'm telling you this, Minister: I'm not responsible for the resettlement of the clinic, but you and the administration. But the appointed administrations, you know, do not have the role of highlighting the problems. Many times they put them under the rug, because then the Minister asks for solutions and decisions and why the Minister asks for work because of political pressure. And that, everyone wants to avoid it, because the problems are being hierarchyd differently. We understand, I think, Minister. That's what happened in the past. That's what's happening now. So I say to you that the new wing is housed in a clinic, which does not provide hospitality. There is also a 20-bed clinic, which is not used, which is adjacent to non-medical clinics. Well, you could consider a radical resettlement of the 2nd Pathological Clinic in order to offer better working conditions to the workers of all steps, but above all better care conditions for patients. In that sense, I tabled the question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u184	Thank you, Mr. Colleague. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u185	Mr. Bukowar, I wish that was your mood. If that were the case, you would have recognized a few things. We do not just say 'feel the other people'. No, it's not just your fault, but you've broken up the universe. Since then, in the two years that we have been ruling, in particular in Volos, we have corrected the following. First, we received a budget from state funding, from your government at EUR 9,200,000 in January 2015 and on December 31, 2015, we had given together the exceptional grant of EUR 10,300,000. In 2016, we financed 9,800,000 euros from the General Accounting Office and 3,500,000 euros from the EEA, for the first time after too many years. This year, because there was massive cash available from other hospitals in the health district, the Hospital of Volos will get from the state budget, from the General Accounting Office of the State of 14,150,000 euros. One - zero. Since 2015, five permanent doctors and five assistants have been recruited at Volos Hospital in 2015. In 2016, six permanent doctors and ten assistants have been recruited. In 2017, so far five permanent doctors and three assistants have been recruited. How much does that make us as a sum, Mr. Bukowo? How much does it do?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u186	After the previous contracts had expired. Those who had left exactly.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u187	Makes us twenty subsidiary and fourteen permanent doctors. In the process of appointment they are two curators II pediatrician, two curators II Psychiatrician, a curator II Surgery, a curator II ORL, a curator II pediatrician, a curator II Ophthalmology. It is for them that the crises have been completed, and they are for them to be published in the FEK. It is pending to make a judgment about a position of obstetrics, gynecologicals, a position of haematology director. We now have another gastroenterology director post in 2017. These are the permanent posts and the subsidiary doctors for the hospital of Volos that have taken place over the last two and a half years. Measure how many years before, there was a real hospital hemorrhaging.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u188	Is that who I told you? I asked you about working conditions and hospitality.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u189	Thirdly, from 2015 to today, 13 permanent staff, eleven auxiliary staff, forty-three of the OAED programme and five other people with individual contracts for emergency needs have gone to Volos Hospital. And there are others on the way from the notices coming. That's what's happened. No, they will. Make the hair, Mr. Buckooro.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u190	Go on a walk and see what's going on?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u191	I answered my prototype. Am I going to say the same thing again? I told you, they're dispersing to transport.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u192	Go for a walk and see if what you say or what I say is true.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u193	Calm down now. You're not interested in what we're saying. Let's go to one last now. The approval of feasibility has been signed, firstly, for the coroner we agreed to enter Volos and accession to the NSRF will proceed, as will another amount. That wasn't sure. They're definitely done with our government. And there is also a sum of 762,000 euros for surgery equipment, equipment pathology and anatomics, equipment of the ICM, equipment of the radiological, ultrasound, elasticography technique, a digital DR group of two detectors. Also, in here is the surgical bank that's coming for the coroner.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u194	That's not the point of parliamentary control...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u195	I just wanted to show myself...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u196	Mr. Comrade, you can't take the floor. They don't write what you're saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u197	How? He's generally answering for the hospitals!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u198	The Minister answers as he thinks. What can we do now?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u199	These are the questions in particular.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u200	Don't lose your temper.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u201	Minister, let's get this over with, though, if possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u202	I'm done. You ask me a question to tell me that where black chaos and black trampetana were going, we didn't deal with a clinic that had forty beds and you decided to take her to thirty-one and then you started putting a ranch so you could cover the traffic. At the same time, I can prove to you what we did at Volos Hospital in two years when you hadn't done it the previous fifteen. That's the reality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u203	Mr President, on a point of order I would like a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u204	Mr Colleague, you know that the Rules of Procedure do not give this possibility. Please very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u205	Anyone can answer what they want?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u206	But he answered that way. What can we do now? Minister, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we will change the order a little. It will precede the questions to the Minister for Health, Mr Cremastiu's question to Mrs Papanatsiou, because it is the only question Mrs Papanatsiou has to ask, so that she does not wait. Therefore, the third question under number 1024-14-16-2017 is a topical question from the First Vice-President of the Parliament and Member of the Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Strengthening the economy of the Dodecanese". Mr. Kremastein, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u207	Mr President, I would like to ask the Minister if the government intends to review the tax system of VAT and the tax on night stay on the Aegean islands, and particularly on the islands which are adjacent to Turkey, namely competition, tourism. That is the main question. Of course, this question is based essentially on the fact that these islands, to survive even on the Ottoman occupation, had a special tax regime. Incidentally, yesterday's EurooneWS broadcast had presented inhabitants of the islands who said that the products reach them 30% more increased outside VAT, due to the fact that they are islands and are transported, compared to the rest of Greece. But the question is not just tax justice, but competitiveness. You know that at the moment in Turkey there is the political situation that exists, where even tourists are killed, killed. The same is true in Syria, of course, too in Israel, and in Egypt to Algeria. All these things today, fortunately as far as tourism is concerned, and unfortunately for people, they are competitive for us. We can still take it. However, if these situations are improved, you can see that there will be a shrinking of economics on the islands and tourism, because these markets which will open up will offer very much cheaper hotels, as well as good tourism as our own and we really do with this regime, in which, unfortunately, we have come to an end because they are within the obligations imposed by the troika, we will have the problem of the immediate survival of the islands as these people, who are now unemployed, will emigrate with all the others who have already migrated abroad. It is therefore a matter of survival on the islands and a national issue - because if people leave, some others will dwell there - the review of this whole issue, finding equivalent measures which the government must put forward and put forward in Europe.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u208	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Madam Secretary, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u209	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I should like to point out that a similar question was asked by the honourable Member, Mr Metarakis, and answered last Monday's plenary session on 19-6-2017. The same way I'll answer to you today. In fact, the provisions of Law No4334/2015 and No 4336/2015 provided for the gradual abolition of the reduced 30% VAT rates in the Aegean Islands until 31/12/2016. However, I would remind you again that the provisions of Law No.4336/2015 have been binding in order to implement the agreement with the European Stability Mechanism and to ensure the country's uninterrupted financing, and that is why this law was passed by the overwhelming majority of Members. We have repeatedly stressed that the regulation of the abolition of the reduced VAT rates on the islands was a political necessity for the government and not a choice within the framework of the strictly required budgetary adjustment measures. In order not to be directly affected by all the Aegean islands, three steps were envisaged to abolish the reduced VAT, starting from 1-10-2015 until the definitive abolition from 1-1-2017. In particular, from 1-10 on the islands of Thira, Mykonos, Naxos, Paros, Rhodes and Skiathos, from 1-6-2016 on the islands of Syros, Thassos, Andros, Tinos, Karpathos, Milos, Skyros, Alonissos, Antiparos and Sifnos, while for Skopelos due to the natural disasters suffered by extension of the law on 1-1-2017. From 1-1-2017 he would also come to the islands of the eastern border of the country. However, the provisions of Law 4446/2016 regulated their stay at the reduced 30% VAT rate until 31/12/2017, precisely because of the refugee crisis and the negative consequences that these islands have suffered because of the migration issue. In particular, the measure concerns the islands of the prefectures of Evros, Lesvos, Chios, Samos and Dodecanese, other than Rhodes and Karpathos, which had already been subject to the standard VAT rate. Rhodes had been subjected from 1-10 and Karpathos from 1-6-2016. The main aim of these islands was to alleviate their inhabitants, since they already have a great deal of weight and play a key role in the management of refugee flows. At the same time, our government's will is to adopt appropriate and targeted measures to support island Greece and implement specific island policies in contrast to what has been done by your governments and your co-governments for so many years by limiting the island policy to deduct VAT rates. As regards the imposition of the residence tax, he was imposed by Law 4289/2016 with effect from 1-1-2018 in hotels and apartments. This is a fixed amount per day and per room reduced by half in the case of a two-day period and is determined according to the benefits and degree of luxury of the accommodation. It is clear that this regulation also did not constitute a political choice for the government, but a necessity, in order to achieve the objectives of our country's fiscal adjustment. It should be noted that in any case the Ministry of Finance monitors the effectiveness of the tax policy pursued and assesses the results of the measures taken.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u210	Madam Minister, you will continue in your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u211	I shall conclude, Mr President. For example, Article 72 of Law 4472/2017 simplified the way the accommodation tax is levied on rooms, since this is no longer dependent on the classification of rooms on the basis of the keys, but a single charge is introduced for all rooms, namely EUR 0,50 per day. It should be noted that, after negotiating with the institutions, accommodation in hotels and tourist accommodation was maintained at a low VAT rate of 13% and 9% for islands, which up to 31-12-2017 have a reduced rate of 30% in order to maintain the competitiveness of Greek tourism. Finally, given the budgetary constraints of the Greek economy, if necessary and feasible, we will make further necessary legislation with a view to social justice and sustainable development.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u212	Madam Minister, you're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u213	I put forward the relevant documents for the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u214	Mr. Kremastein, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u215	Mr President, I understand that my question has not been answered. My question was not asked to hear what I know, but if the government intends to revise its decision at the end of this year. That's the question. The second thing I would like to say is that as regards the survival of the islands, this regime has already been implemented by the sultans over the Ottoman Empire, because the islands and then they have been empty. People don't have another resource. This is an undeniable fact. As for the history of recent years, and in the first and second memorandums, it was clearly what it was in the third. However, application laws had not come to the House, because they obviously found equivalent measures and the troika agreed on them. What does that mean in practice? In practice, my proposal is to once again propose equivalent measures, as was done with the first and second Memorandums, which did not come to Parliament, and these equivalents should be applied so that there would be growth. Because, when we talk about development and tourism development on our islands, that is to say, that is to say, to compete with the hotels on the opposite side of Turkey. And I have to tell you that already from Kos - I do not know if it continues - they have made to the opposite coast on the Turkish coast, Greek business hotels to obviously save VAT and these night burdens, in the context of competitiveness. If, then, we want our tourism to be competitive, much more when the socio-political conditions change in Turkey, in the Middle East, in Egypt, etc., you need to see these things again. My question, therefore, is this: after the end of this year, will the status quo remain as it is, as you said quite rightly, and have read it to me, or will something be done? That's what I asked you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u216	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u217	Since the abolition of the reduction of the VAT rate on the islands affected by the refugee crisis has been suspended by the end of the year, any extension of the application of the favoured scheme will be decided at that time on the basis of the then budgetary data and the actual conditions and needs of the islands concerned. Furthermore, it should be noted that Directive 2006/112, which incorporates Greece's rights to apply a system of special VAT rates to the islands, due to the geographical isolation and distance of the islands from mainland Greece, is still in force. And Greece under no circumstances is blocking this right. I would like to remind you again that the Government, through the Prime Minister, has announced the preparation of compensatory measures to compensate for the losses suffered by the permanent inhabitants of the islands as a result of the abolition of the special arrangements for reduced VAT rates. In fact, the Ministry of Finance, in cooperation with the Office of the State Secretary for Insularity, is studying and planning specific economic measures for islanders. In addition, we have to bear in mind that the application of the measure will apply from 1-1-2018 and therefore for the next tourist season. The financial results and any impact of the measure will therefore appear at the end of the following year and any adaptation of the legislation will be discussed on the basis of these results. You should also be aware that such a tax is imposed by most European Union countries, and therefore there is no question of competitiveness as it is common practice in our country. As regards competitiveness with the neighbouring country, as you quite rightly said in your speech, our country's security strengthens competitiveness. I think that any adjustments that will not only concern the hotels to which you refer, but also all the tourist accommodation, will be possible when the budgets allow us to do so. And then they will be reviewed by the financial staff and the government.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u218	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the fifth under number 979/7-6-2017 is a topical question for the second cycle of the Member of the European Parliament, Mr Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister for Health, concerning the inclusion of the vaccine against the meningoccal serogroup Type II in the National System of Vaccines. Mr. Saridis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u219	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, on November 10, 2016, the timely question with number 192 concerning the need to incorporate the anti-meningitis type II vaccine into the National System of Inoculation due to the ongoing cases - sometimes fatal - mainly in childhood. This question has never been answered, which was tabled precisely because of the death of a child at the time. However, in the course of the course you replied to four questions by colleagues who had the same subject, by Mr Danellis, Mrs Vlassi and Mr Economou, where you essentially mentioned that although the vaccine had been authorised by the EOF and had been classified as safe, effective and immunogen, it could not be included in the Greek Vaccine System as it had not been demonstrated that its period of protection and its impact on the port and the immediate protection of the community had not been demonstrated. Right now - a few days ago - we have had a deadly incident of child in our city, Thessaloniki, which has brought back to us - has made the question up again and brought it back to the fore again in a tragic way now - the need to review your policy on whether and whether this vaccine should enter the National Inoculation System. On the basis of the above, Mr Minister, you ask whether you intend to review the health ministry’s policy on meningitis type II vaccine and incorporate it into the National Vaccination System. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u220	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u221	Mr Saridis, to clarify exactly how this procedure works, I have to say this: First of all, the Minister does not decide which vaccines are part of the National Vaccine Programme. There is a competent scientific committee, the National Committee for Vaccines, involving highly qualified pediatricians and infectious people, who have very good knowledge and data at European level and the guidelines of the World Health Organisation, but especially of the country's epidemiological data, which suggests that the political leadership should be included in the programme. So there is, first of all, a very structured National Vaccine Programme, which is fortunately implemented in our country with great success. The rate of vaccination coverage especially of the child population is too large. Especially for the trivalent MMR vaccine reach 95%. This has created a very large band of immunisation in the population, with the result in particular this year that in countries of Europe and because of the influence of the anti-infective movement, etc. There has been a revival of cases of measles particularly, in our home country, not to happen. As regards the compensation for this vaccine, for which you are asking the Ministry, I will tell you that there was a negative decision by the National Committee for Vaccines. When it opened a debate and there were interventions mainly from professional children's clubs - that is true - but also from some representatives of the scientific community, who indicated the need for universal coverage of the population, we returned the question to the National Committee for Vaccines, which, by unanimous introduction, considers that it is not demonstrated by the country's epidemiological data that this vaccine should be administered to the child. There are specific indications of administration which mainly concern the existence of specific cases of immunodeficiency in a child - either anatomic or functional asthenia, or a lack of certain complementar factors, for which it is appropriate, or where there is, of course, evidence of epidemiological exacerbation. So these conditions apply in the National Committee for Vaccines, and that is exactly what the Minister and the political leadership are doing. I would like to inform you that a corresponding decision on the universal coverage of the child population for this specific vaccine - for other meningoccus groups - has been taken - on very restrictive terms - by only one or two European countries. We therefore believe that the committee' s suggestion is acceptable, that the epidemiological and public health reasons for the generalised, universal vaccination coverage of the whole child population for this vaccine are not met in our country.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u222	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Saridis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u223	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you have the responsibility of an important ministry, the responsibility of an extremely critical ministry, the responsibility of a ministry whose cost of prevention is clearly much lower than the cost of treatment, the responsibility of a ministry dealing with human lives. You will allow me to tell you that I am not satisfied with your reply, despite all my respect for your face, as we are behind the decision of a scientific committee, at the same time that many bodies of the scientific community are talking about the necessity of this vaccine. As far as the European countries to which you have referred are concerned, I should like to tell you that both in Ireland and the United Kingdom and in Italy this vaccine is covered by the National Health System of these countries by 100%, while in many other European countries it is partly covered, with a certain percentage. The fact that the conditions here in Greece are such that there is no epidemic, so since we have no epidemic, there is no need to vaccinate children, especially, but I do not consider that to be a serious argument. You will allow me to share with you an experience I had in this Chamber with the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr Polakis, about a year ago, in a debate that had taken place on the cancellation of the ninety-two ambulances of the EMCDDA. Mr Paulakis then argued - although he should have been a little more careful in his words - that no fatal incident would happen due to the lack of these ambulances. At the moment, in New Skioni Halkidiki reports say a woman lost her life because basically the nearest ambulance was fifty kilometers away. It is not at the moment to talk about it. The people in charge will see the truth. I have asked your Ministry a timely question on this matter and we will assess it when the time comes. But why am I saying this? I am saying this because, without wanting to be a populist, a human life is clearly worth a lot more than many things. And in the timely question I made at that time, I realized that the problem with ambulances is the financial cost. At the moment I understand that the problem with vaccines is the financial cost and that is why I am not satisfied with the answer you give me, Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u224	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u225	Mr. Saridis, you're wrong. I'm telling you, honestly. I personally invited the members of the National Committee for Vaccines, on the eve of the final decision, and told them that if the literature, if the international guidelines, if the scientific documentation requires that we cover the entire child population of the country with this vaccine, you would recommend it and the state will do everything it takes to cover it. That was my location. I can tell you that it was a unanimous suggestion that it is not required on the basis of the country's epidemiological standards. In my view, we must respect it. I may personally be a doctor, perhaps I have a personal view of the matter, but this scientific committee must protect any minister from wrong choices. You saw that I did not raise the financial issue, despite the fact that this vaccine is extremely expensive, it is almost 50% of the budget of all the vaccines in the country. As you can see, such a decision cannot be taken lightly. In fact, however, we have said that what is important is to meet the real needs. Today we are fighting a battle, with a very limited budget for medicines and vaccines, due to the monumental commitments and budgetary objectives that have been set to cover in a universal and equal manner and independently of the insurance of all the needs of the children of that country. That's our concern. We are monitoring international scientific developments. We are watching what the World Health Organisation says. I think that now our country is a country that keeps European health standards and no one has given it up for the other. I understand that when there are cases or incidents which are unfavourable to the public, there is a sensitivity to the public. I would ask, however, very much, in particular, the political forces and representatives in the Greek Parliament to adopt such requests with a great deal of thought.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u226	Thank you, Minister. Are we moving to the sixth question under number 1005-12-6-2017 of the Independent Members of the Achaias Parliament, Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, to the Minister of Health, on "Will the surnames be paid?". Mr. Nicolopoulos, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u227	Thank you, Mr President. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I cannot avoid the temptation, listening to the Minister, to think of the eleven million vaccines that this country bought. Where are those vaccines? Still, he says, they're stored. We paid for it. Those who had to be apologized are delightful. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, 11 million vaccines! On the other hand, Mr President, I cannot say that my pleasure - and I imagine all the citizens who are following the House today - is great after the case has been resolved with stolen medical equipment. I say this because I do think that the citizens of us and the Parliamentary Control are waiting for such joys. I would like to ask you to do the same, Mr Minister, for Mrs Theocharopoulos Freedom. I don't know her. Mrs Theocharopoulos knew that this question was to be asked today. They cut two legs in Henry Dunan and the courts decided that it should be compensated. And "do the snare," who? I put it both out for those who might want to be informed by the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So they are making the "bug" those who do not ask the surnames, the majestics who, Mr President, have spent millions of dollars on Henry Dunan. You know, Mr President, it is terrible that there is no shame and no pebbles. My colleague told me now that he recalls that the mothers raised their children, but also our teachers, saying: 'In the Red Cross fundraiser, when you come forward, you give half of the euro'. And today they heard that the daughter of a politician, the granddaughter of a political jackal, took 300,000 euros! In other words, you can imagine six hundred thousand students giving half the euro to get it. That's the same thing we have here. So here we have a situation which I will testify for those who do not know about the minister. Because we have also heard, Mr President, here today in the sitting, that every citizen has an obligation - but, above all, the Minister - to hear that illegal acts have been committed to the public, to silence. So I will stop, asking Mr. Minister: Minister, I am sure you will find out about this list of Jambadziers who are inside politicians, five, six of the MEGA, are supreme judges, and are arrogant. And they didn't go to pay even when the foundation was mutually beneficial. Why now on the Committee of Inquiry says: 'Is it a public limited company?', 'Is it private'? ‘Is it public?’. We didn't find out about the company of the sons of Sufah who has taken over, he says, to collect - how much do you think? -24 million. Is there a few 24 million euros? Who could be these apes? Mr President, we have an example. I see the name Dalakuras in the situation. That may not say anything to you, but I will file data with all the names, to see why you must not wait for the Committee of Inquiry, but you must send them now. And that is the question, Minister. Here I have a sales by Mr. Dalakura from the Red Cross, the absent, that is, the Dalakura! Listen to the absentee! He says that Dalakuras took Rally's 77 million, the legacy of the academy and Bucharest. I'll testify to that, too. Greek Red Cross. Was he a punk you didn't take them from him? Is the Mitsotakis family, where they went for free, is it inappropriate? Is the Simitis family incapacitated? You want to see together and read...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u228	Mr. Nicolopole, in dentistry, please. We're in five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u229	Yeah, I'm done. And Mr. Martins seems to be awkward. I would therefore present the list here - it was also published on Sunday in the paper 'DOCUMENTO' - so that you do not say that you may not have it, and that is why you did not send it, as you should, I imagine, send it. And he's got a lot of names here.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u230	Mr. Nicolopole, in your dentistry. After all, these are submitted and are available for use.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u231	Yes, Mr. President, I'm sorry. Well, that's good. He's coming.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u232	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u233	I want, not to be considered as saying five or six names, to allow me, Minister, if you don't tell us what you've done all these days, the second word to dedicate it by reading the list of honors of those who want...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u234	You'll testify to these.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u235	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u236	Thank you. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u237	Mr Nicolopoulou, this is now officially known and now the House, through an institutional procedure, is investigating all its aspects. Henry Dynan's case is a case that has been in Jerusalem for many years and has been an image of a dreadful management of a high-level hospital, which was a legal person of private law, but had a beneficial character. It is precisely because of this mismanagement which, in our view, has been done with political tolerance and overlapping over time of political leaderships and governments, has led to bankruptcy and, finally, to the disposal of one private person, and indeed - it seems - for a price that is not acceptable. So that's the story. Obviously, the non-payment of branded hospitals was an aspect of this case, along with many other elements of mismanagement, customer logic, illegal transactions, illegality in relation to supplies, etc. At this stage you know very well that the Ministry of Health has no supervisory and control role in the private hospital "Erikos Dynan", except as far as medical and nursing work is concerned and the standards it has to respect, as far as the provision of health services is concerned. Nevertheless, on the occasion of your question, we addressed the administration of the hospital, the board of directors, which informed us that it had made two moves. One is the one to which you have already referred, namely, that he commissioned a law firm to search for all the cash claims, the old, the current and the future, from what he says...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u238	Which company, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u239	In the company called ‘SWIFA AND ACCOUNTS’, a law firm. We are therefore talking about the losses arising from this operation of the hospital, namely the non-payment of hospitals due from various surnames or anonymouss who were hospitalized over a long period of time. The second thing the Governing Council has decided to do is to testify before the special inquisition of political appeal against the former President of the Board of Directors, Andreas Martinis, for the damage suffered by the Foundation. This is the information we have from the hospital administration. What I understand, when such a case comes in the light of publicity, is that the demand for society in principle is that responsibility be given, whether political or, possibly, criminal. This is the subject of the committee of inquiry, which is currently investigating it and apparently there is a great deal of interest. As far as I know, you yourself are a member of the committee, and so you have the image first. But, clearly, there is also a demand to restore the sense of law and, therefore, the obligation of some who have the same economic benefit from such management, to pay their dues. I think that on the side of the Foundation's board of directors now, this legal person private law, has moved this search and is in progress. What we can do, perhaps, is come back to see the progress of this process. You know very well that the Ministry of Health does not grant or grant in the past the specific nursing establishment. In that sense, it is not presumed to be publicly harmed by the non-payment of those hospitals. However, this clearly created a black hole in its management, which led, together with everything else, to the final bankruptcy of the institution and thus to the loss of a hospital that was in the broadest sense in the operation of the public interest. So I think there's a problem. As part of the Ministry's role, we can follow the case and, if we have any further information, bring them to the attention of the National Representation.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u240	Thank you. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u241	Mr President, what we have heard today will you see tomorrow that it will be what those political forces will repeat within the Committee of Inquiry, who, while unanimously voting to become the Committee of Inquiry, are now saying 'we are working between two public limited companies, Piraeus Bank and a public limited company that is Henry Dunan'?' The Minister said so today. I really didn't think so. But I don't have time to make any more comments. It wasn't, he says! Oh, no! It wasn't public, and the Minister was appointed! So, to Apostolopoulos he appoints a board of directors? Is the Medical Center reduced VAT, Metropolitan? Secondly, Mr Martinis is in prison - you know - and why he lost the nursing establishment, the public benefits, as he is called, a nursing establishment, these 24 million people. He went for it, too. It's not just because they found him in the bills of 3.5 million. The Mandarins of the Ministry of Health have today heard that they don't know it's for that too. Because if they knew or knew, they wouldn't be able to say that all these donors, all those who took the free care gift, participated as morals and as recipients. But they seem to have their nest, too, not the Minister. I want to believe it and it will prove whether the Minister today will do what he has to do, because of course they are controlled. And that says one of my questions today, Mr President. Did the hospital officers then send and the auditors checked on all of them alerts? Let them show us. Did they move the legal procedures? They should go to the courts. We're talking about 24 million. And who were you? Was that the ones you were in the niteressos, the darntziki that Martin had developed with all of them, with all the political establishment and the economics? Isn't that a challenge? They cut their legs and said 'we are not giving you' - I told you a moment ago - 'the money'. It says the Ministry is 'we don't have any money'. Yes, sir! But we did. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Listen, Mr. President. Molyviat, and he doesn't go to pay. Mitchell, he's not going to pay. Martine and Martine, they don't go to pay. Bruce, he's not going to pay. Burning, he doesn't go to pay. Venizelos, he doesn't go to pay, his dad. Mrs. Gennamas, she's not going to pay. Mrs. Bakoyannis, she's not going to pay. Mr. Bibos, he's not going to pay. Hey, Mr. Athanasios! Mr. Simitis. Mr. Grives. I tell you from what you should see why they are not bothered, as the citizens are disturbed, Minister. Could those who have told you today to say these are in these situations and lists? Did they get their little presents from Mr. Martin? Why listen, Mr President, Mr Martinis told us - so that the Greek people could hear it - the day before yesterday in the committee 'I did not go to the politicians, they came and told me to do that too'. You'll see here and on the lists. I do not expect to see it in the newspapers, nor do I expect to see it on television, because although the Committee of Inquiry sent a letter to the PSE and says 'Why is people not informed about it at all?', we have not received any response. So I think, Minister, that by taking the situations that I will now table, you will not wait until the committee of inquiry is finished. Besides, listening today to the ministers who said two hours ago that each of us should, when they have such evidence, immediately take them to the prosecutor, I will take them to the prosecutor for all those who owe and do not go to pay and who obviously, before they even sold to Piraeus Bank, some others paid the bill for those who wanted and suite and Lux. And finally, together...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u242	Mr. Comrade, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u243	Yes, Mr President, I conclude, although you have seen that parliamentary control has been left to a greater degree of time, and I believe that there are no first and second categories here, colleagues. Besides, you do it many times for me, and thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u244	No, they don't. You're right, Mr. Nicholas.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u245	I don't have any complaints.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u246	It is simply on the basis of the theory of the Minister that he is not going to refer to what you say, because he said he does not have the power to look into it. So, is the conversation a little unfair and names are heard without any answers? With all due respect, I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u247	Mr President, let me tell you. The opposition said two hours ago to the government that it had no competence, and the government said from there that the ministers had and provided competence not only for their objects, but for any object that might fall to their sense, I had an illegality. So, here we have a list of hundreds of people who have damaged the mutually beneficial foundation and are not going to pay and you're telling me that the Minister of Health does not have any responsibility?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u248	I'm not saying it, Mr. Minister said it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u249	When I referred to the name of Mr. Athanasios, I referred to him because he's a qualified legal officer and I'm sure he realizes that...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u250	Mr. Nicholas, you're in seven minutes. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u251	...and the one who took the gift, whether he's honorary, whether he's Chief of Antipopulation, or his sister, whether he's of the minion or, or he's committed...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u252	Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u253	I'm not a lawyer, am I, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u254	Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u255	I hope that these will bring the result that the Greek people want in the public interest.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u256	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u257	Mr. Nicolopoulos, I was clear. There was a terrible administration and led to the bankruptcy of the hospital, and the responsibility for this development has a political name. It's clear. This is now being investigated by the Committee of Inquiry, which the Government has set up. The Government took the initiative to control not only this scandal, but overall the party in the field of health, has instructed the members of the Committee of Inquiry to investigate any criminal responsibilities of political persons and state officials in the management of this hospital and in its conclusion. Now Henry Dunn is a private hospital and in this sense the Minister does not have control over his financial management.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u258	I'm talking about old times.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u259	Look out, listen up, Mr. Nicolopole. When we took over, the crime had occurred. The hospital was sold.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u260	These have not been filed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u261	Of course. I understand, therefore, what you are saying, in the broadest sense, the damage to the public interest. That is why we have asked for information from the current administration of the hospital, and that is why we will keep the necessary supervision in this process, to make sure that there is what you say, a restoration of the sense of law, what people are asking for in order to convince that in this country they can be treated in the same way.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u262	Minister, the evidence was not provided by the bank, the evidence was provided by Mr. Farantatos.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u263	Minister, finish up so we can go to the next question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u264	Mr. Faradays gave the evidence.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u265	Minister, do you know what's happened right now in the Chamber? Names have been heard, a number of people have been mentioned as - probably Mr. Nicholopoulou filed his details - as "jambads" for their hospitality, you declare that you cannot control it because it is controlled by a lawyer assigned and named. It's unfair, extremely unfair. So please complete the answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u266	I completed my answer. That is what I have to say we will continue to monitor the development of the case.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u267	Thank you very much. Is the twelfth timely question under number 943/6-2017 in the second cycle, Mr Larissa's Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Konstantinos Bargiotas to the Minister of Health, on 'is there finally a national and regional strategy for the development of medical tourism?' Here, Mr Barriotta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u268	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, on the occasion of the reconversion of the many subject of'medical tourism' which comes back to topicality, this time it was a great meeting held in Larissa on the initiative of the Medical Association and participation of all the bodies from both medicine and the business community concerned with medical tourism, which resulted in an optimistic and pessimistic conclusion. The optimistic conclusion was that the city, Thessaly in general, is yet another of the areas that already have the potential to enter and expand on the subject of medical tourism and move from now on. The pessimistic conclusion, unfortunately, was that it is unlikely that investment and activity will now go ahead, as the public and the state, in fact, the ministry, not just help in this process, but actually block it. I will leave the management of the medical needs of our visitors, of our tourists, which is a big issue in itself, and I will refer only to medical tourism, i.e. medical tourism that is developed by citizens from other countries, third countries, who are looking in other countries than those who are insured for chronic diseases. This is a process that has been a central one, which has been a process in which rich, prosperous, citizens of third countries were heading towards the centre, towards the traditional countries that had technology and capabilities, now has become a centrifuge, and that is precisely to say, citizens of strong and rich countries, such as the United States of America and countries of Europe, have a tendency to seek treatment in third countries, for many reasons, especially for price and competitiveness reasons, given that medical services in the region have improved. So in the game one sees the five countries that have the largest investment and the largest profits: Singapore, Turkey, India, but do not see Greece. It is a market, which, according to valid studies, could easily land at 2 billion, because there are comparative advantages, there are doctors of prestige, there are facilities of the private and public sectors exceptional, there is the climate and there is a highly developed tourism industry, which all together could contribute. And there is no legislative framework. The State has undertaken to adopt a joint Ministerial Decision setting out the regulatory framework relating to medical tourism in 2013, but in 2014 with L.4276 the State has undertaken to adopt a joint Ministerial Decision setting out the regulatory framework relating to medical tourism and has not yet been implemented. Recently - and I am glad that he is here - the relevant Minister for Tourism has announced to hoteliers - if I am not mistaken - that a new framework is to be created and legitimised. In fact, the framework exists. It was also an interim law of 2013, which was sufficiently clear and was inactivated by the 2014 Act. What is actually pending is a joint ministerial decision setting out things, such as the movement of medical information, the insurance of providers, and in particular the certification of providers, which is still pending.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u269	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u270	I shall conclude, Mr President. So the questions are whether this desolate ministerial decision will be adopted at some point, or whether we are actually going to go to a new legal framework, and if so, what are the main features of the new, if that is the case? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u271	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u272	Mr Barriotta, this is obviously important and interesting. Medical tourism is a very important form of alternative tourism. The expectation of tourism contributing to the development of the country, overcoming the crisis, strengthening income and employment in our country is very strong and we should in every way strengthen all its aspects. The truth is that there is a difficulty in creating the right institutional framework to enable investment to be made in this area. We must say, however, that what is firstly of interest to our country is its visitors, the tourists coming to Greece and who this year seems to be - and the Minister responsible is here to confirm it - will be a record year, if necessary, if they have any event that threatens their health, a disease, have the best possible care, the most reliable care, in principle, in the public health system. Because usually, particularly in island areas and high-demand areas, the emergency and emergency incidents involving tourists are mainly addressed in public structures. So, in principle, we are interested in these structures being operational and providing reliable care. We believe that even this is an element that strengthens the country's tourism product and actually gives the sense of security when any citizen from another country stays in our country, and in total I think it strengthens - if you like - the feeling of society's health safety, which is very critical. We have tried these two years, particularly by managing the major explosion of the refugee and migration current, not to allow this major social problem to be turned into a public health problem, and I think that so far we have succeeded. So this problem is urgent and most important. There is also an issue of upgrading the current equipment infrastructure - if you like - and the hotel infrastructure of public structures so that they strengthen - our tourism product and the visitors know that any health problems can be tackled in a credible and decent way. There is another important issue, with a secondary aspect. It is about our country's ability, and in particular the administrative mechanisms of the health system, to collect hospitals from citizens who are not members of the European Union, are not European citizens and do not have the European card. Until now, in primary care structures, this possibility was not available. Now we're making an effort. Within the draft law, which I believe will be passed in the next month, there is a special provision which will enable payment to be made for services provided to them at secondary level. In hospitals there was a process of looking for these hospitals by visitors’ insurance agencies. Of course, an important aspect is also the issue of health tourism, which is a very systematic attempt at this time to move forward at a much faster rate and to facilitate the development of services in areas where we know that our country has a comparative advantage. The last and perhaps the major challenge is what you said: medical tourism, namely, to have citizens from other countries who choose to combine their holidays with some healing and interventions in our country. In order to be absolutely honest and in contact with reality, this is a case, first of all, which concerns the private sector. The public health system with its own resources, with its budget limits, etc. and with the great challenge of covering the population as a whole, and particularly the uninsured citizens at this time, I think that it is not really possible to look for this type of perspective.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u273	Minister, you have a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u274	I'm done. There are, of course, some specific cases, such as, for example, the dialysis units, where public structures with a better staffing, strengthening of their equipment, etc. they can slightly increase the possibility of also hosting tourists and at the same time they can do their dialysis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u275	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u276	This, first of all, concerns a hospital which has been in operation for about a year, a new hospital, the Santorini Hospital. We are looking into this very systematically. I think, however, that for the rest of the part, what is mostly a rapid ministry is the Ministry of Tourism. We are in a very good phase of cooperation. There have been two recurring meetings lately...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u277	Minister, there's a second one. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u278	I'm done. We are therefore in an effort, with the speed of the Ministry of Tourism, to look at all the unfinished things, to facilitate this perspective.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u279	Mr Barriotta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u280	Thank you, Mr President. I'm afraid I didn't get an answer. I will repeat the question: For the private and public authorities, first of all, a sector of urgency is the Ministry of Health. It's about the certifications. There is a joint ministerial decision. Without her, nothing can be done. It's just Greek. Medical tourism exists. In Sunday newspapers there was the classic example of assisted fertility. There are women - because the regime is such in other countries, with another religious doctrine, which is very difficult - to come to the country. The doctors themselves who control centres, public and private, are asking for an assessment and for an assessment of the legal framework, which means, as we have said, certifications, evaluations and prestige. They are essentially asking the state to cover them legally, but to give them the necessary authority to bring other patients. We are talking about ten to fifteen thousand patients in certain situations. It's not just haemodialysis. It is also fertility, orthopaedic interventions, which are likely to take place in Greece. It's a thousand things. It's the restoration, in which the country has a comparative advantage. For all this, however, it is presupposed that the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Tourism, which has another part, must go through the institutional framework. The Ministry of Tourism has tourist agents, advertising abroad, the conclusion of transnational agreements. However, the certification of health establishments for medical tourism is a selective task of the Ministry of Health. This is huge foregone profits. I will agree that the public cannot participate, especially because, in the institutional context, the existing one, in principle, cannot be certified. All assisted fertility units have been certified outside public institutions, which happen to have the best doctors and the greatest experience, for the simplest reason that the institutional framework is such, there is no money to make investments to be certified in an ISO and another order. Therefore, here, we are dealing with capacity utilization. We're dealing with investment attraction. We are dealing with the repatriation of scientific potential, which is excellent in Greece. We can't talk. We have come to discuss the water routes, clinical studies and medical tourism, Minister, since I was young and old. We all agree that this must be done and nobody does anything about it. The state here needs to do the institutional framework. And that's the basic question, if you're gonna do it. Furthermore, it must cooperate with the invisible, possibly private sector, so that we can proceed with strategic planning in the medium, decades, at least, with investments that can bring to the country huge sums, help indirectly the National Health System, help to absorb excess medical resources, which is migratory in Europe, and especially in those years. All this can be done through medical tourism. As long as I can tell you that in Singapore, an island across the world, within the next five years, the number of visitors of health on the island is close to passing on the population of the country. We have an economic advantage, we are in Europe, we can attract medical incidents from all over the northern hemisphere, but we are doing nothing. We can't make it self-evident, certify the units. We need to get a KHS out - it is a time-consuming problem, but it must be done at some point - which says that the unit is certified, valid and can accept patients with the funds as well as via private companies. It's very simple, it's just not done. At some point I must begin and propose to you, because I understand that little has been done, that a working party should be set up, which should necessarily include people from the private sector and from entrepreneurs. There are well-established, valid studies by universities, which demonstrate a step-by-step, even who are facilitators and the people with whom to cooperate abroad and bring such people. So we can make it very easy to take the first difficult steps and put the water on the groove, which they say. The question is, do we want to?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u281	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u282	Mr Barriotta, we obviously want and there have been enough of what you are proposing. There is a working group of four co-legislative ministries: the Ministry of Tourism, Health, Economy and Development and Environment. There are two partners who have been involved on several occasions in meetings, are working on and reviewing the existing framework and will make all the necessary interventions, legislation, the adoption of ministerial decisions, which are necessary to have a clean framework, which will facilitate the development of medical tourism in the country. It's over. That's our intention. There are chronic claws, loose ends and delays and oligopoies. The story of assisted reproduction - you know it very well - was legislated in 2005.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u283	In 2001.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u284	In 2001, but there was a second piece of legislation in 2005 and a few months ago the presidential decree came out to determine the terms and conditions of operation of this Government. What can we do now? There is a problem of malfunctions as a whole in the functioning of the state and public administration, we recognise it. We are therefore trying, in an environment that is difficult, our priority is true and we say directly, today, to support the public health system, which welcomes the great pressure on both the citizens of this country and its visitors. In this context, then, the unfavourable environment is trying to do everything possible to support an area of enormous and very vital importance. It is a huge need to develop and bring added value to the country. It is acceptable to highlight weaknesses and shortcomings. I can assure you that, in cooperation with the relevant Ministry of Tourism, we will do our best in the next few years.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u285	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, it will not be debated by the honourable Member, the second with number 4382-22-2017 question by MP Drama of the New Democracy Mr Dimitrios Kyriazides, to the Minister for Health, on the National Cancer Combat Policy. Also, the first question under number 1037/16-6-2017 of the New Democracy MP, Andreas Katsaniotis, on the subject: "Emergent need for integrated management policies in the fight against mosquitos by the state", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the questioner. The fourth, with number 976-6-2017, topical question for the second time of the MP Halkidiki of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Vlacho's Salvation to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Halkidiki Law Deficiencies are jeopardising the lives of citizens", will not be discussed due to the imprisonment of the Deputy Minister of Health Mr. Paul Polakis and will be redefined for discussion. The fifth, under number 1032/16-6-2017, top-level question by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Finance, regarding the bet companies, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister of Finance, Euklidis Tsakalotou and will be redefined for discussion. Cause: workload. The third question under number 1026-17 will not be discussed at the second time by the Independent MEP Mr. Dimitrios Koukoutsis, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Prospects and needs of the International Airports Kalamata", due to a workload of the Minister of Finance Mr.Euklidis Tsakalotou. We will not discuss the ninth question under number 929/2-6-2017, the second time question by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos, on theft of electricity, due to a workload of the Minister of Finance Mr.Euklidis Tsakalotou. The tenth question under number 931/2-6-2017 will not be discussed at the time of the second question by MP 2 of Athens, Mr. Georgios Amyras, Minister of Finance, on the SIEMENS case, due to a workload of the Minister of Finance, Euklidis Tsakalotos. We will not discuss the thirteenth question with number 924/1-6/2017. Second question from the Athens Parliamentary II of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Helen Zaroulias to the Minister of Finance, on the "definition of the judiciary in the administration of the UFO", due to a workload of the Minister of Finance Mr.Euklidis Tsakalotou. We will not discuss the fourteenth question with number 948/6-2017 on the second question by MP II Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Sakis Vardalis to the Minister of Finance concerning the Greek Vehicle Industry "ELVOABE", due to a workload of the Minister of Finance Mr.Euklidis Tsakalotos. The eighth question under number 923/1-6/2017 will not be discussed in the eighth cycle of the People's League MP - Golden Dawn Mr. Christos Papapas to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "fulfilment of the Tomb of the Nation", due to the impediment of the Minister of Education and Religion Mr. Konstantinos Gavroglou. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. Before entering the debate today's question, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of making three announcements to this House. First, Congressman I Thessaloniki, Elena Rapti, seeks permission from a few days' absence on June 26 and 27 from the work of the Parliament, because she will be in Brussels, where she participates as an expert in the design of new strategies for information, awareness and active involvement of sports organisations for the protection of children. This meeting is being organised in the framework of a Council of Europe Programme entitled 'Security in sport, ending sexual harassment and abuse of children in sport'. By letter sent to the Bureau, he would like to thank us very much for our decisive contribution to protecting children from child abuse. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u286	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Second, MP Kastoria Maria Antonio seeks permission from a short-day absence abroad in the period 29 June to 4 July 2017 for personal reasons. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u287	The House therefore approved the requested permission. [[CHANGING PAGE]] Third, MP Imathias Mr Apostolos Vésiropoulos asks for a four-day absence permit abroad for Germany from 24 June to 27 June 2017. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u288	The House therefore approved the requested permission.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u289	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda for the INQUIRY Question No 23/8-05-2017 will be discussed by the Members of the New Democracy and Mr. Emmanuel Konsolas, Theodoras Bakoyannis, Ioannis Placiotakis, Charalambou Athanasios, Constantine Ah. Karamanlis, Konstantinos Katsafandou, Konstantinos Skreka, Christos Boukorou, Athanasios Bourres, Georgios Stylios, Christos Dimas, Fotinis Arabatzis, Vasilios Yoyakas, Ioannis Antoniadis, Ioannis Kefaloniadis, Ioannis Vroutsi, Constantine Jawara, Constantine Gyuleka, Stavros Kaloufatis, Andreas Katsaniotis, Ioannis Andrianos, Noti Moutarakis, Nikolaos Panagiotopoulos, Anastasios (Tsos) Messsaki, Eleftheriou Aygenaki, Iasonos Fotilila, Nikos Keraemis, Vasilios, Mavrioudis Vlachos, Georgiosiliou (Simos) Kyrimos Kyrimos, Greece, Greece, Greece Mr Emmanuel Konsolas, Member of the Dodecanese Parliament, has the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u290	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this debate which is taking place in the national delegation on the initiative of the New Democracy should have taken place for a year. It should have been linked to decisions and proposals that would have become applicable policies for the development of the cruise. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, the problem is not that the government had no and has no plans for the development of the cruise for two and a half years. The problem is that he appeared and appears unprepared in the face of the new data that produce negative consequences for the cruise in Greece. What are these new data? It is the displacement of the cruise from the East to the Western Mediterranean. This was because of developments and the insecurity that exists in Turkey and other countries in the wider region. The government at the same time did not understand the problem last summer. He stayed in a virtual good picture for 2016 on the cruise and left everything on the autopilot. In 2016, the year for the cruise was somehow saved due to the change of routes at the last minute by replacing some Turkish destinations from Greek destinations due to the events in our neighbour. Instead of seeing the substance of the problem, the government chose a passive attitude, and the problem does not just touch in 2017, but it records a marked fall in the cruise. Because the government simply did not realize that, as long as our country, as a cruise destination, was linked to Turkey, it would also suffer the consequences. If the project were to be disconnected from this image and developed as an autonomous cruise destination, why did it suffice to monitor only passively the displacement of the cruise from the east to the western Mediterranean and did it not take a substance initiative for a strategic development plan for the cruise over the next few years? The government was unable to read the developments that led the cruise companies to seek safe destinations to the western Mediterranean, so that the great loser would be our country. I present the updated data of the Cruise Shipowners Association relating to 2017, where there is a thorough recording and illustrating of the figures that I mentioned above. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Emmanuel Konsolas, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Apart from this, a 20% reduction of cruise arrivals is currently recorded in the forty two ports recorded in traffic. In absolute numbers we are talking about 3.450 arrivals versus 4.250 arrivals in 2016. However, there is also a decrease in visitors from the cruise by about 11%. This means that their number from 5.1 million visitors for 2016 will decrease to 4.6 million visitors in 2017. On this, of course, I have an objection to the exact number of visitors to the cruise, since we do not have a reliable system of recording and measuring, a reliable satellite account that gives us accurate and reliable data. We note this in order to record why every cruise passenger can go down to two or three Greek ports and count to all three. The point is that the cruise is in a fall in Greece for 2017. It follows 2018 and will be a lost year, because very simply, as you all know, the company has already been planned. Since we have done absolutely nothing as a country to reverse the situation, we cannot hope in a spectacularly different field than what we are describing. All this is happening, while the elements of the International Cruise Union show an increase of the cruise worldwide, with 25.3 million passengers in 2017 compared to 24 million passengers in 2016. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we should have a substantive debate. The Government considers that everything begins and that everything ends in the Commission which has recommended, but which is lacking in a substantial, interventionist and decisive role. How many times did he meet? What decisions have been converted into policies implemented by this Commission? This question alone, in which there is no adequate answer, says it all. Mr President, today we, as a New Democracy, are in a positive mood and prepared to contribute to a radical redefinition of the strategy for the development of the cruise and not to become caught up in the debate on the government's failure. The two bad years, in 2017 and 2018, for the cruise not only concern the SYRIZA - ANEL government and its responsibilities. They employ the effects of all people living from tourism and cruise. First we need to see the big and real picture. It would be useful to point out what the problems are. We have specific problems in the great picture that we have to put forward today. First of all, Greece must aim to come out of its image as a cruise destination with developments in Turkey. It must be disconnected, since foreign visitors do not easily choose cruise packages which include destinations in Turkey for safety reasons. The second point we have to make is that we must become, as a country, competitive with regard to costs, but also with regard to port services and airports. Thirdly, we need to improve the port infrastructure and simplify the procedures for a ship's arrival and departure. At the same time, we must formulate a new and coherent policy for the promotion and promotion of the cruise. These four fundamental points could have been discussed and launched together, in the previous period, ladies and gentlemen of the government. This, however, requires a strategic plan and, above all, an abandonment of the ideological and outdated approaches that we hear from occasional factors of the Ministry of Tourism, the Ministry of Shipping and other government factors. We have recently listened to Mr Kurublis, and with his presence at the meeting of the Committee of the Regions on the cruise, to adopt a proposal that we had tabled in the past which concerns the long-term allocation of port facilities to cruise companies in order to develop and upgrade the infrastructure and services of the cruise. We are pleased that you have shifted the centre of gravity in this direction, Minister, and we are actually welcoming you. It is a one-way development, since there is no public resources available to create new port infrastructure and upgrade services.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u291	You didn't.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u292	We have tabled this very early, Mr Minister, and our colleagues are here, both in the public debate and in the Minutes of this House and in our public intervention. From there on, in this debate, let me put forward a number of issues relating to the operation of services at ports and the level of services to visitors of cruise ships. The first is to improve the coordination of the Greek services, port and police, in order to limit bureaucracy and to help passengers directly and without suffering. The second is the problems in navigating service. You see, we all witnessed what happened in the previous period. Not thousands of passengers can stay on cruise ships because there is no navigator or navigator to get them to the ports to disembark. We must see either the separating and strengthening of the navigating service or the assignment of navigating services to certified providers from a private sector, as is the case in international practice, or even the integration of pilots into the port agencies or to the local port funds. Most importantly, however, ladies and gentlemen, we need a strategic plan to strengthen the cruise, with the beginning, middle and end, with clear objectives, dynamic elements, strength and duration of time, extroversion and bold features. In order for Greece to become the autonomous development pole of cruise - which can be done - it must set as the dominant strategic objective the conversion into a hub of the eastern Mediterranean for the cruise, with large ports home ports. This strategic goal serves a number of other goals, such as the attraction of five thousand cruise ships, many of which are new generation and large capacity, eight hundred thousands of real and new visitors only from the cruise and five hundred thousand passengers only from home porting. How important home porting is we don't need to repeat it. You see it daily in the real economy, the benefits are multiple. Compared to the transit cruise we are talking about at least a spectacular increase in revenue, about the economic benefit that results for local communities, the local economy, and also about increasing our country's residence time in a sphere other than that we have used to and stay in our country with visitors who can bring great value to the tourist product. It is time to talk about promoting new tourist products, such as cruise and stay, short cruising, which is done in other countries abroad in Europe and in America. These tourist products include combining a cruise and accommodation package, as well as a short cruise, starting from the Greek ports. Mr President, it is time to do the self-evident things, such as the lifting of the anti-motors for the cruise, the policy of connected transport that is necessary for the operation of home porting and the expansion of the working hours of archaeological sites in areas and also in islands which are cruise destinations. The New Democracy is packed here to be useful, to put forward proposals and, at the same time, to be able to contribute to the development of a national cruise strategy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u293	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. My colleague, Mr Bukkokouros, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u294	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President-in-Office, as you have seen, the first question, Mr Consolas, was not limited to criticism, but also tabled very specific proposals for the development of the cruise in Greece. I fear, however, that the government and the co-legislative ministers are trapped in a delusion and on this issue. Receiving power, both the tourist flows and the arrivals of cruise ships have had a growing trend and rather the government has rested on those growth trends, which have, of course, continued, and in 2016, without taking into account the wider geopolitical developments and events, especially in neighbouring Turkey, because, as you best know, Madam Minister, many cruises, many cruise routes are fully connected with the two countries with routes from the Greek islands on the coasts of Asia Minor and so on. But cruise companies operate with longer-term planning in relation to the Greek Government. That shows the evidence we have so far. The first half of 2017 presents a rapid reduction in the arrivals of cruise ships in Greek ports and estimates for 2018 are even more unfavourable. We must therefore say that all this has not been taken into account. The government rested on growth 2014, 2015, 2016 without taking specific initiatives. This is as a general remark. From there on, I would say that Greece is lacking in the organized projection as the destination of cruise ships, because it really can provide port infrastructure even if there are deficits. There are many major ports of popular Greek destinations that can welcome cruise ships and instead of seeing the continuation of this growing trend, we are obliged to listen to these estimates for reduction, which can go in the depth of three years or four years. Because you see that there is good faith from Acoustic Antipolitics, because tourism is indeed our heavy industry and cruise is a dynamically developing sector in the world, I wanted to focus on just one issue, the tax incentives, which you must give in collaboration with the Ministry of Finance for the supply of fuel and the supply of cruise ships. We're talking about floating states, about hundreds of arrivals every year in our country. All these cruise ships find tax incentives in neighbouring Italy and neighbouring Spain, making huge turnovers in relation to Greece. Of course, it is not your responsibility, but synergy and cooperation must be a concern for the members of a government and the joint ministries. From there on, of course, the involvement of TIAD in port agencies and the lack of investment I do not know whether it can today improve port infrastructure and how much this can yield in the near future. However, in the context of long-term planning aimed at increasing tourism through the cruise in our country, these must be done in conjunction with limiting bureaucratic procedures for cruise visitors. We remain the state, which exaggerates both the issues of fuel supply and supply of cruise ships from Greek stations. We remain the most bureaucratic state, when our neighbours have managed to take a large part - and I mean the neighbours to the west, in the western Mediterranean - have managed to get a large part of the losses of the Eastern Mediterranean, which are the result of the developments in recent years. You need to weigh all this. You must listen to the proposals of the New Democracy, because I regret to tell you about my own region, the Magnesia Prefecture, the Volos and the Northern Sporades. I see that we started in 2014 with fifty-three arrivals, in 2015 with fifty-seven, and then, Minister, begins the dominion. Forty in 2016, thirty-six as soon as the provision for the port of Volos to arrivals of cruise ships. In other words, we have been talking about a rapid decline in recent years. Same...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u295	Four months.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u296	I'm speaking for prediction, Minister. You know, cruise companies don't work like the government, run behind the facts, make their planning and not just annual. I would therefore say that the messages are not positive and you must take advantage of the fact that the first question, but also all the Members of the New Democracy here, are making proposals. And run faster, because the new currency, the currency of our time, Mr Ministers, is the speed because there is competition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u297	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. My colleague, Mr Plakkatakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u298	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam and Minister, I understand your valuable efforts to convince us of the results of your policy in the critical and sensitive sector of the cruise. But, unfortunately, your efforts are falling into a gap, because there is no policy and, of course, both the facts and the reality are regrettably flawing you. I am certainly not surprised that both the cruise sector and maritime tourism are absent from the political agenda in particular of SYRIZA. At this point I would like to remind those who have a weak memory that nine months after the total deception of the Greek people following the well-known burial of the Thessaloniki programme, Mr. Tsipras gave the public a new programme on how he would go next time after winning the elections. And, of course, in this programme there is absolutely no mention of the cruise. The only reference is to aid in the tourism sector in the islands, where it stated that the Government would support cruises other than the usual routes, connecting the islands with small cruises. It is well known what has been going on in our country for the past two and a half years. I want to be useful and contribute fertilely to today's debate. So let me mention some specific elements that will highlight the scale of the problem, which government officials either ignore or do not want to admit that they exist. I am talking about a problem, because despite the government's celebrations of supposedly reversal of the climate in the cruise sector, the situation is extremely worrying and you should take all those initiatives to solve structural problems in the sector so that we do not have to face more difficult situations in the near future. Madam and Minister, you are well aware that the first preferable region worldwide for the cruise is the Caribbean, which has 36% of the global movement of the cruise. The next preferable area is Europe and especially the Mediterranean with 19%. However, this percentage in particular in the eastern Mediterranean is constantly falling, and this is mainly due to geopolitical developments, which, together with the immigration issue and terrorism, make the regions of the Eastern Mediterranean unattractive and safe destinations. Now let's see how our country dealt with it. First of all, with the open borders policy, which has exacerbated the problem of immigration, as well as - and I have expressed myself publicly on many occasions - with the unreasonable government's decision to allow NATO to become involved in the Aegean Sea. I have also often stressed the dangers that exist in the Aegean region with Turkey's depopulation. However, the most important of all is that Greece has allowed exactly the problem in the wider region to become part of what is happening in Syria, Egypt, Libya and Turkey. Of course another big issue, Minister, concerning shipping - and this is a matter for you personally - is about your design of port infrastructure. I've heard your narratives too many times, your vows. But in practice, I haven't seen anything specific. Are you or aren't you in favour of concessions? Because the truth is that in recent years your particular logic in the field of concessions has been reversed. I remember in 2008, when Costas Karamanlis proceeded to privatize the PPA - then you were in another party - the whole opposition was against concession. Have you now changed your mind on this matter? Do you have a concrete proposal on the use of port infrastructure? Here is the opportunity to tell us what your design is about the development and modernisation of port infrastructure. Of course, this requires cooperation with world players in the cruise field. You know what we're talking about isn't easy. Is there a plan? Because what's the secret in this case? That we need our ports, in order to obtain the best result in the cruise sector, to evolve into ports of home port. This is the secret, of course, along with air transport. For a study by the Bank of Greece has shown that if all our passengers were home port passengers, there would be an increase in the annual income of more than EUR 800 million, i.e. 0.5% GDP increase. That is the aim, Minister, and that is where we expect concrete answers from you. Of course, we are also waiting for specific answers as regards duty-free in the supply of cruise ships. Will you apply it as is applied by the competitive countries, such as Spain and Italy? You know that it is one of the specific issues that you can handle and I know that specific contacts have been made, as has been the case in the past, so that we do not forget. Minister, this evening we are waiting, especially from you, for specific answers from the port infrastructure. I would like to remind you that in previous years and in the government of New Democracy, important interventions had been made, for example in the port of Corfu, in the port of Heraklion and, of course, in the port of Piraeus, where port infrastructure was improved. Of course, this has helped to make these ports a home port. So here is the great challenge and you must at last give us concrete answers and not blessings or narratives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u299	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Constantine Karamanlis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u300	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to ask you to unify the periods of protagonist and denology, since I will not have to make a second position. Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating an important issue today, which is the development of a long-term strategic plan for the development of the cruise in our country. And if we really want to have a serious and substantial debate, I think we should start by answering a crucial issue: do we believe that tourism is our country's heavy industry? Because if we believe it, we must give absolute priority to modernising tourist infrastructures, away from ideological strangles, away from micro-party pursuits, without short-sighted perceptions, with open-minded, modern ideas and the state's determination to act immediately. The main issue, therefore, to which I wish to focus today on my speech, is the interconnection of the cruise with a series of infrastructures. If we invest as a country in tourism, we have to invest in the cruise. And if we want to invest in the cruise, we must also show care for the ports of home ports, that is, for the base ports, as is well known. With this in mind, we call the ports that are the starting points and ending of the journeys carried out by the major cruise companies. This is precisely what experts are saying and the key to strengthening the cruise industry in our country, but also to providing economic benefits, both in local economies and in general in the country's GDP. Today it is known that four ports operate - home port in Greece. The biggest of these is, as we all know, Piraeus and the other three are Corfu, Rhodes and Heraklion, areas that are every year a pole of attraction for thousands of tourists from around the world. However, homeporting, without serious air infrastructure and air connections, is something that does not exist. If you want to be competitive in this area, you have to have serious infrastructures at your airports too, so they can be an airline hub. This is precisely what is the secret of success in Istanbul, which is currently predominant to home porting in the Mediterranean. Turkish Airlines, one of Europe's largest airlines, has managed to connect many destinations to Istanbul airport. So what do we propose from our side? We are proposing three concrete actions: firstly, to become competitive with regard to Turkey's ports and airports. In this light, a proposal that we need to discuss at one time seriously is to consider turning the port of Alexandroupolis into a home port in order to cover the northern Aegean. In order to do this, however, both the port of Alexandroupolis and the airport of Alexandroupolis must be upgraded, but it does not belong to the fourteen regional airports allocated to the ‘FRAPORT’. An alternative plan, therefore, could have been the port of Thessaloniki, to fill the gap of the northern Aegean. In this way, we would have an exceptionally competitive advantage over Istanbul, since cruise ships would avoid crossing the narrows, saving an important cost for shipping companies. Such a move could also be a pole of attraction for many tourists now coming from the Balkans and from the former eastern bloc, who will now choose either the port of Thessaloniki or the port of Alexandroupolis to start their cruise. And in order to achieve this, we must move quickly and take advantage of the historical juncture and political turbulence that exists in the neighbouring country. It is no accident, moreover, that within one year the home port in Greece increased by 60% because of the phobias caused by the political upheaval in Turkey. We are therefore opened up a window of opportunity, which should be used as quickly as possible. Maybe it's a chance. But maybe not. In any case, what we at last need is to draw up a comprehensive technocratic plan, both to decide which ports and what airports we will be able to exploit, and to have a specific plan that will ensure funding for these investments. Secondly, we need to see a little bit of what is going on at the main port of Piraeus. Unfortunately, at the moment, the situation in Piraeus city is problematic for passengers headed to and from the port. A successful exploitation of the cruise by Piraeus, without the preparation of a wider road decongestion plan, cannot be done. Today, the 'COSCO', of course, is trying to exploit the cruise. She has submitted her own proposals for the exploitation of the cruise by building three projectors on the port arm of Piraeus. The situation in Piraeus should, however, be improved in a short time and infrastructure, such as tram and metro, very soon, should be completed. Otherwise, the debate on alternative projects will come back to the table, such as construction of two projectors at the Peace and Friendship Stage where they could tie cruise ships. Another proposal that has been placed on the table by experts has to do with the exploitation of Lavrio, just for the cruise, in conjunction with the extension of the suburban. It is a choice that at first reading seems reasonable, but here it is considered to be extremely costly. Thirdly, we need to upgrade the ports of the country, both home porting and ports of transit, such as Santorini, Mykonos, Katakolos, Kefalonia, Patmos and Chania, which serve hundreds of thousands of passengers. Nevertheless, we all know that they have serious infrastructure problems which in many cases give an unacceptable picture of a country's tourism policy. These are the issues that we need to discuss seriously in order to find a solution. But without manipulation and without micro-political exploitation. It is therefore necessary to draw up serious feasibility and viability studies in order for all these projects to gain an added value. It is time that we approach this with the seriousness of it, if we want in practice and not in the words to be a country which considers tourism to be a major industry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u301	Thank you, Mr. Colleague. I have the honour to inform the House that the Standing Committee on Formats Affairs presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Culture and Sport: 'Amendments to Law 2725/1999 (A-121) and other provisions'. Mr Charalambos Athanasios has the floor. Mr. Athanasios, will you take your dentistry too?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u302	It will depend, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u303	Good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u304	Ladies and gentlemen, I really regret the time to discuss our topical question, which we tabled on 8 May 2017, and which concerns an issue that was and remains topical, but also vital to our very fragile economy. When we testified it, we were already in the tourist season and our prolongation was expressing her agony for the cruise, as we were seeing another year go away. We had hoped that, after a substantial debate, the government would recognize its omissions and ineffectiveness at the last minute and take some action, which, if anything, would give impetus to the cruise in the face of the summer season. This, of course, is provided that today's debate will take place at least a month ago. This has unfortunately not been done with your responsibility, Madam and Minister, and we fear that it has already been lost in 2017, if not in 2018 for the cruise and destinations that benefit from it. And that's how we got to the current situation. Greece, the largest coastline and most islands in Europe, which is the ideal country for cruise in the Mediterranean, manages this year to have reduced arrivals by about 22% and a little more. Even in the most tourist ports of the Aegean, such as Santorini and Mykonos, the reduction of arrivals, given the country's dynamics as a tourist destination, is dramatic and is particularly positive for Greece due to international developments in competitive states in the wider Mediterranean basin. I am sure that for the government everything will be the fault of the situation in Turkey, which has made the packages of Greek and Turkish destinations less attractive, while the relevant ministers will remove all responsibility, invoking the establishment of the National Coordinating Committee for the Cruise. So, is everything all right for you government? But, at the same time in Lesvos - to mention my polypathic island - two are expected this year - and if they are to happen, if these cruise ships are berthed - as against twenty-nine last year, which was a difficult year, and fifty-three years ago, in 2015 and fifty-four arrivals of cruise ships in 2014. How many passengers does that look? Thousands of passengers for this year, fourteen thousand in 2016, twenty-five thousand in 2015 and thirty-four thousand in 2014. The situation in Chios is similar. Mr. Metarakis will tell you. For this year there are eight cruise ships, while forty-three, forty-two and thirty-six respectively in 2015 and 2014. Same on Lemnos. This year was six, while it was fourteen and forty-one. Same in Kos, as Mr Consolas mentioned, by tabling the relevant table. You will answer, if necessary, that this is due to the refugee issue on the islands. So I should like to ask two questions: First question: last year, when there was a fall, but there was some movement - even less - against other years in our ports, there was no refugee issue and indeed in the face of the present hypotonic situation? Second and most important question: Until when will you be hiding behind the refugee to cover your inability to produce a policy that will help our islands to cope with its consequences? Where are the financial incentives that you promised that our islands, such as Lesvos and Chios, would make attractive destinations for cruise ships? Where are the information campaigns to stop these islands from being discredited abroad? Because it is true that these islands - and especially my own country of Lesvos - have been very discredited abroad. Where did the famous discongestion of the islands that you committed yourself to and the meeting at the Maximos Concert? Where did our border surveillance go? Absolute zero. Just announcements and words. You turned the hot spots of the islands from first-host centres to permanent immigrant camps. Ladies and gentlemen, tourism is a lever for our country and many of our fellow people are working and living through it. The cruise has huge benefits for tourism and therefore for society. The most important thing is that it is the best advertising for our country. It has been proved statistically - you all know - that one of the four tourists visiting a destination with the cruise is very likely to return later to the places he had visited with the cruise by other means. Our country has the prerequisites for success in this area. It has many destinations nearby and therefore a ship can navigate many destinations at lower cost. This is of interest to both tourists and shipowners and undoubtedly constitutes a comparative advantage for our country as a result of our competitors. But this alone is not enough. Our country must shape those policies that will further develop the cruise as a means of tourism in our country and listen to and integrate the developments that are constantly taking place. Port infrastructure needs to be constantly changed because ships are growing in volume, and ports must be supported and served by modern airports. The main thing, however, is that when a cruise ship ties to a port for ten to twelve hours, the port infrastructure is ready to meet all the requirements. Delays and bureaucracy are not forgiven. Only in this way can a port be turned from transit to hub, with huge profit for the destination it has and with huge benefits for the state and the citizens. This is how growth is achieved and not the redistribution of poverty, as you have been discussing over the last three years. This is not all new, ladies and gentlemen. We know them. We have also been told by the relevant bodies in this House at every opportunity. Unfortunately, however, we are constantly seeing steps backwards and we give them back when in Turkey and when in migration. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to stress the following: the New Democracy, through its Members, has tabled a report on the cruise in time. In our timely question there are critical questions and serious proposals, which you have heard from previous speakers, Mr Consola, Mr Karamanlis, Mr Plakatakis. We are here today to discuss and listen to what you are responding to the elements and proposals that we are presenting. We are asking to know what your plan is - if there is any - and what action you will take immediately. Society today is suffocating and suffering. There's no time for another delay. I will personally wait for your answers and I will return to my dentistry if there is a little time - even a minute - because I have covered my time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u305	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Metatakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u306	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Greece could be at the top of the cruise industry in the Mediterranean, with fourteen thousand kilometres of coastline, with forty-two ports that can be accepted cruise ships, with inexhaustible natural beauty, with our monuments, our history, our culture, with countless alternatives for entertainment and entertainment. The cruise is a sector that is rapidly growing and extremely profitable for the countries involved. Only in the Mediterranean, the cruise turnover reaches 12 billion euros a year. Moreover, due to the nature of the cruise, the diffusion of benefits is greater than any other type of tourism. Yet, Greece does not win. The forecasts of the Cruise Ships Association indicate that in 2017 we will be in arrivals below 2014 levels. More importantly, companies who want to start their cruises from a Greek port, the so-called home port, which has the most benefits for our country, have not increased, because the costs per passenger are multiple in the starting port than they are in the ports of transit. We are waiting today to hear from the two relevant ministers, the Minister for Maritime Affairs and the Minister for Tourism, what is the government's comprehensive plan, the timetable and your objectives to take advantage of these positive trends on the cruise market, in a sector in which important steps have been taken in the past few years. In 2012, for example, a major institutional step was taken. Despite the reactions that were then, after many backslidings, resistance and revolts, there was a complete and definitive lifting of the cabotage, a restriction that was in place for almost a century - since 1920 - and prevented Greece from becoming a base country for the major companies of the cruise. We completed a reform that should have taken place decades ago. We have laid the foundations for progressing and developing the development of the cruise in our country. The lifting of the cabotage was a necessary condition, but in itself it is not enough. But one step has been taken, and much has now to be followed. A large survey of the cruise in Greece by the "InterNeasis" includes eighty criteria with weight factor, on the basis of which cruise companies choose what the start-up port of the cruise will be. Apart from cabotage, which plays a major role, infrastructure and air transport are very critical. The infrastructure, as Mr Karamanlis said, must be strengthened. And they must be strengthened by an integrated plan. There must be political incentives or the removal of counter-incentives to attract ‘home porting’. Incentives discussed by companies include port charges, tax treatment of companies, costs of services to cruises and passengers. We want to ask the Minister and the Minister what the government has done so far to persuade foreign companies to use our country as a base port, what is the incentive policy, what is the anti-motor lifting policy and what is your future planning, with specific objectives and a specific timetable? Unfortunately, we have left behind both incentives and infrastructure. Delays we have in every attempt to improve the port infrastructure which is the first image of the visitor. Let me refer to my own port, the port of Chios, whose image gives the island and the country an unjust impression, as well as the airport of Chios, which must operate as an alternative, so that there can be boarding and landing from the islands of the northern Aegean. So we ask the government: What are your actions in the field of infrastructure? What are your actions on cruise companies to attract new companies to Greek waters? It also plays an important role in the issue of security and political stability. It seems that Greece has not yet been able to take advantage of developments in the wider Mediterranean region, where our country stands out as a safe destination. Of course, for the last two and a half years, he has done very bad things to the image of the country, the sense of security in our country, the migratory problem both in Piraeus and in the Aegean islands. It has hit our islands and the country in general, giving an image of lawlessness and cultivating a sense of insecurity, which the competitive countries of Greece understand can spread. And we see the results. In 2015 in Chios we had forty two arrivals of cruise ships. This year, Minister and Minister, the target is eight arrivals. Forty-two arrivals in 2015, eight arrivals in 2017. Why? Because the image of the islands of the Aegean was negatively affected. Ladies and gentlemen, despite all the budgetary difficulties in the years 2012-2014, we had made serious openings to stimulate the cruise. Apart from the lifting of the cabotage, I should like to take note of the European Commission's permission to support the creation of the necessary infrastructure in the port of Piraeus through Community funds in the port of Piraeus, a project which has not yet begun. We had worked in parallel to another alternative, in the alternative of having a cruise port as a base port in Faliro, in one of the most idyllic parts of the "atomic riviera". We would have today a state-of-the-art terminal, which would fully meet the needs of the companies, at one of the most privileged points in Athens. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not have the luxury of not taking full advantage of the very dynamic market in the cruise, a market of EUR 12 billion for the Mediterranean alone. It is necessary to promote a serious and firm development plan which, of course, goes through the coordination of many ministries, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economy and the relevant ministries which will respond today, taking into account, of course, the financial implications of these measures, which will be positive to the Greek economy in terms of visitors. We are asking you to present your plan today, tell us about the incentives you will give to strengthen the cruise, how you can help Greek tourism exploit these very positive developments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u307	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Katasfadus has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u308	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the government believes that tourism and cruise can be developed on their own, that they are not affected by overtaxation, nor by the messages that the government passes on to the tourist market and entrepreneurship. In 2016, in fact, it was not a bad year for the cruise. This, however, is not due to actions planned and implemented by this government, but to changing routes from negative developments to Turkey and Egypt. The Prime Minister, Mr Tsipras, when he sold the port to 'COSCO', spoke about 'the silk road'. But let's talk a little bit about the Chinese cruise tourists. The presence of 'COSCO' in the port of Piraeus is a strategic choice with multiple benefits for the country. He bears the signature of Kostas Karamanlis and the Government of New Democracy. But it's a choice that was fought by SYRIZA and not just. What do we do, however, to take advantage of this advantage? Let me just let you know that the Chinese cruise tourists went to Turkey and from there they took the ship to make a cruise on the Greek islands. Despite the presence of 'COSCO', even today, there has been no move to come to Greece, to be Piraeus the home port from which the cruise will start for them. We are aware of the problems that exist in connection with the granting of a visa for cruise passengers from China and other countries. Three months are, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, the average waiting. Can this develop the cruise? At the moment, the port of Piraeus should be targeted to become one of the largest home ports of the Mediterranean, to be able to travel three million passengers on an annual basis. But what is the government's planning? Have you ever presented a plan to the residents of Piraeus City? Did you invite them to talk? Should the Cruise Committee not be convened immediately to discuss with the Piraeus actors the prospects for strengthening the idea of home port, which will have multiple benefits both for the city and for the economy and for the whole of the Lefkapodium? What have you done for two and a half years to shape the prerequisites that are needed to transform Piraeus into a large home port of the Mediterranean? What have you done for direct air connections from “Eleftherios Venizelos” airport to cities in countries such as the United States and China, in order to shape the conditions for the development of Piraeus in a large home port? Because, home port, ladies and gentlemen, it also means air connection. There are also other problems recorded by cruise companies in the city of Piraeus, such as the cost of services in the port and the problems with the Navigation Service. I would also say to you that there is this paradox, not only for Piraeus, but also for other ports which are cruise destinations: I am referring to the lack of a single port policy, but also to the overlapping of responsibilities with other relevant services. For example, I do not understand why the pilot service does not belong to the port. The port administration body must be responsible for the entire range of services within it. On Sunday, May 21, more than three thousand cruise passengers were left for two hours outside the port on the cruise ship, because there was no available navigator, while we all know that in each cruise there is a programme of approach, stay and departure from each port. So, is it possible with these practices to develop the cruise? On several islands, too, as in Santorini and Hydra, it is certain that there are no port facilities for tieling cruise ships and selecting the seamen's solution. They're the known flags. With all the governments over time, there is neither a legislative framework for seafarers and safety rules nor a framework for their management. So the need for this to be a message to the cruise companies is immediate. So all this, ladies and gentlemen, is it not time for us to get on the table, plan, start up and find the best solutions that we can give to help the cruise? Shouldn't the prospect of the development of Piraeus in a large home port be linked to development policies for the city, with the development of urban tourism in Piraeus? Because to date, passengers on cruise ships do not live in the city, despite the fact that this has a huge historical and cultural capital. But is it possible for passengers on a cruise ship to come and find enclosed archaeological sites due to the time elapsed? Piraeus could also be a starting point for short cruises of two to three days on Argosaronic islands. It is a serious and important perspective that needs to be put on the table. The islands of Argosaronic and the nearby Aegean islands are offered for the ‘short cruising’ programmes. But is there any planning to be able to help us, in our turn, in so far as we are concerned, but also in the local communities, in the design of all the things we say above? The cruise is also linked to the ship repair sector in the wider region of Piraeus. Ship repair is like there is no prospect of this government. The whole shipyard has been closed and the repair zone is down. What does that mean? It means very simply that Greek landlord cruise ships and ferry ships are going for tankers and repairs in Turkey and Malta. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, if I may, I will also take time from my dentistry. This means a loss of income, a loss of exchange and unemployment in the repair sector. Five Greek-owned cruise ships and eight ferry ships were forced to go abroad this year for repairs, when we should have carried out a plan for their construction and repair in Greece. I am not talking about this, of course, but about ships that could come from abroad. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Anastassios Kourakis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] I am currently tabling the programme on the conversion of cruise ships, which have become international in 2016, but also ships, which are scheduled for 2017 to 2020. Unfortunately, none of these ships are repaired to Greece. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Constantine Katsafandos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I also present in the minutes a table with financial data relating to the ship repair sector 2015-2016 for passenger ships only on the coastline. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Constantine Katsafandos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Ladies and gentlemen, only 10% of the work done in Greece would benefit at least $643 million, as can be seen from these figures that I have just submitted. Ladies and gentlemen, ideas and people with complexities in the face of entrepreneurship and the free economy cannot lead and guarantee a development path.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u309	Please complete, because you have exhausted the time of your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u310	So, ladies and gentlemen, if we have the right to future generations, in such a critical economic situation for the country, the natural wealth we have, we do not try to use it as much as possible, to give a greater tourist value in the country and so that future generations can live more clearly and freely, not under this system of overtaxation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u311	Thank you Mr Constantine Katsafados, MP for the New Democracy. Mr Panagiotis Kourublis has the floor now. Minister, how long will it take?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u312	I shall try, Mr President, as soon as I can. I have to answer several colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u313	Obviously. Fifteen minutes is enough?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u314	We'll see, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u315	You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u316	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the Civic Opposition reminded us that there is also a cruise issue and after two and a half years of governance he asked a question. Interesting, even late! I have listened very carefully to all the Members who have been put. I sincerely fear that they have wronged themselves and, above all, wronged the party of Officerial Opposition, because the Civilian Opposition must come to the House with strictly clear positions on what it proposes, with a clear reason, without exaggerations and extremities and without inaccuracies. I shall therefore begin with the last colleague, who is also a Pieriotis. He asked me what we were doing. Perhaps it was not informed that a group of all the Piraeus actors - from the Municipality, from Trochaia, from the Municipality of Athens, from the Municipality of Athens - was formed to find out how we will facilitate access to the people who want to start a cruise from Piraeus to deal with the very serious problem that you know very well exists in Piraeus. You also talked about the sailors. Mr. Colleague, did Greece start in 2015? Why had this matter not been resolved before? You may be a new colleague. I don't know if you were in the other period. But when you say so, think that this party you represent has ruled Greece. Why has this issue not been resolved all these years? So I inform you - and I hope you will vote - that in the new law that we have tabled and which comes to Parliament, a very big bill that solves many problems, the issue to which you have referred is also resolved. I was impressed by Mr. Metarakis' position. Mr. Metarakis, could you say about security and insecurity in Greece?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u317	And picture!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u318	Mr. Metarakis, all right, we'll have an opposition. I'll take it. There are, however, some issues on which we must have a common place, and we must all defend them together, because it is in the great plus Greece that the country has security that no one has, not in the wider region, but even in Europe. Mr. Metarakis, I know you as a reader. But today, I caught you incapacitated. Honestly! The most stringent body, EMSA, which deals with port safety and has come out that Greece is the most secure ports in Europe, and you are now coming here and tell me about insecurity in Greece. These things cannot be said! I heard my dear colleague, Giannis Plakkatakis, and my colleague from Volos, Mr. Bukouros. Do not go back to the matter of fuels. They gave you the wrong information. Neither in Italy nor in Spain. My cruise friends used to say that to me. Call them tomorrow morning and tell them what I'm saying right now and I'll accept you coming out and tell me the Minister's lying. I invited them and ask them how many times I invited them to do this. It's not true. They said it to me, too. But when the evidence came, they started saying other things. So, to come here to the House and say specific things that have both value and meaning. I heard my dear colleague, Mr. Consola. Mr. Consola, I'd like you to present to the House a commercial that the New Democracy government had made for the cruise. One, not two! One! Then we'll talk. Because again I will tell you: Greece did not start in 2015. Don't say those things. Come here and say specific things. I'm open. You didn't visit me until today. Until today, no one came to the Ministry to have a conversation. You know I'm a man listening with care, because I don't own the only truth, nor do I orthotomy the only reason for the truth, I have a little self-awareness at least in this part. I hear people because I have to win a dialogue. I do not know if you are listening to the cruise agencies what they say about cooperation with the Ministry of Tourism and the Ministry of Shipping, that cooperation is excellent, that the two ministries react with strong reflexes on the issues that can arise at any time. In the Cruise Committee convened by the meeting on this subject, did they not tell you important and interesting things? Did they not tell you about the issue you raised in some countries that within two days four ministers met in the presence, for the first time, of the cruise representatives and that the issue was resolved in the embassies with their staff and with the mission of police officers? Didn't you hear it or did you not notice or be at the meeting? Because you say things that indicate that you are not watching things. You're telling us you had a strategic plan. All right, let's hear it. But we didn't hear it here today. We have heard general and vague things. I want to be clear and honest with you and ask you: Is the problem in the Aegean Sea by reducing the cruise due to the government? Can you believe it? Honestly, if you believe it, I'm afraid you're out of place and time. You know very well what has happened with the issue of Turkey and Egypt. You know very well - and you must know, if you don't know - that the cruise has certain peculiarities and peculiarities. The people who go to the cruise want a country in which they can shop for tax. It is not that Greece does not have all that we talked about. I heard you say there about facilities. Do you know that the ends in our ports have to be increased two and a half years? Facilitations exist and we intervene at all times because we are in open line with the people of the cruise. You spoke of ideologies. And that's where you're wrong. If you want to say what one might think at some point, life is evolving, we must all adapt to the new realities. At the moment, the government has opened up a dialogue with the cruise people and we have said "Come on, if there are companies that want to invest in infrastructure in ports, we will find a way through concession procedures, transparent, which will ensure the public interest, to work together". So there's no such matter. A proposal was launched in 2015, which was not complete. The proposal has now come more organised and is already being debated very seriously by both sides, both by the Ministry and by this body. So this is where you didn't have good information. Ladies and gentlemen, the cruise issue in Greece has never been discussed and promoted in an organised manner. It was a fragmentary way of doing it. We have set up a committee involving all the directly involved actors. Everybody. That is why there is no protest. This committee has been divided into four subcommittees and has produced useful work so that we can actually develop the advertising sector. Is it possible to talk about the work the Minister of Tourism has done in advertising? But he has orchestrated all of Greece and all of the world! Where I go find her in front of me. Is it possible to say these things? Do you know what kiosks you had in the big exhibitions in Miami and elsewhere? Did you ever go? Have you asked these to tell you? Have you asked what Greece had this year's presence in these big reports on the cruise? Because you become prophets who may be disproved, do not say any more about the cruise. Do a little patience until October - then say what you want - to be more reliable. Because even the cruise people said we would have 30-40% losses. Do you know what they're saying now? We may have 10%. But you mustn't count that either. The cruise must not only be calculated from the figures, but also from what it leaves, ladies and gentlemen. I didn't hear any of you talking about this. What's left of it? The cruise doesn't just give. Infrastructure is also used. You don't just win from tourism. However, because I have heard you talk about tourism in general, I have not heard you talk about the involvement of the primary and secondary sectors of the economy in tourism. Tourism that can be attributed to a country is directly linked to how large the proportion of primary and secondary sector participation is. Because it's a consumer product tourism, as you know and know. It plays a part in how much the primary and secondary sectors of the economy are involved in this consumer product. Ladies and gentlemen, have we set up for the first time a Passenger Islands Council, precisely to coordinate the deficits that were not there? You didn't know? Don't you know what happened, my dear and my good colleague, Mr. Athanasios, in the Aegean? Didn't I come to Mytilini and the two regional managers, where I went, say that in the last two years the effort in the field of shipping has changed? Do protests sound like they heard first? They don't sound. It was a mess with the ferry three years ago, four. We sat down and we worked and we worked. We are working intensively and we have cooperation with the regions and with the municipalities. We have asked all municipalities to tell us the problems about how the shipping is linked, the arrival of a ship, the departure of a plane. That's never been the case. We're setting up this council. But we are doing something else that you have rightly pointed out. We are trying to connect airports to the ports, to go to this kind of cruise, which of course leaves much more to a country. Ladies and gentlemen, the Ministry of Shipping compiles a record with thirteen objectives. I'll send them to you. I'll send them to all the parties. It is precisely because we are going to dare try to engage in a dialogue between all of us in order to create a national policy. Tomorrow morning I'll travel to London. We are making an excellent effort - what other countries do after Brexit - to claim for Piraeus seats of large insurance and reinsurance organisations involved in shipping. We can't let anything fall down. We're trying to open all these fronts. I heard the last colleague talking about the ship repair zone. Again, will I not get tired of saying: Greece was born and began its life in 2015? You know exactly what crimes - and the word is serious, but I am telling it with conscience - and criminal errors - I will say that, I will say nothing else and I will not imply anything else - were done in handling the shipyards. Why doesn't Greece have a shipyard, sir? Is it SYRIZA and ANEL? Ellos, that's it. Is it the SYRIZA and the ANELs that the European Union has currently awarded us 600 million? Is it SYRIZA and ANEL for all the extortion status that the country is suffering from those who sold the yards? Do, then, a little patience in this area too, because the first requirement to implement the contractual obligation of 'COSCO' by the Ministry of Shipping is to promote the coming of the two major tanks, since, of course, we have called for the immediate repair of the four PPA tanks, which were inappropriate and inappropriate. On Friday, all four of them are inaugurated. In September we will have the eighty-thousand-ton tank here. Our demand is to demand that the contractual obligation be imposed on the tank of three hundred and fifty thousand tonnes. At the same time, we will be emptied of all the old shipyards, small, smaller, all over the country. Because in this sector, traditionally, tourist boats can and demand. Like right now, we will also try to deal with the major problems of Scaramaga. These are the efforts and planning of this government, so that we can really respond as a country to the challenges. Because the country has enormous comparative advantages. At least we owe all of us to be on the same bank. We are unfair to ourselves many times - all of us, I'm not just saying you - when on the altar of the opposition dialogue we go beyond the ground and say things we shouldn't say. Efforts at times, no one doubts, have been made. These two years, however, there is a systematic effort, just to see from both mistakes and weaknesses, what we can shape better. Was there a port industry in the country? Tell me, if the country knew how much the ports, the bays, the anchorages. For all these are the points that can be exploited. Did the country know about this? Now, right now, tell me one more thing. Maybe what I'm telling you to tell me you're not accepting it. How much master plan did our ports have in 2015 and how much do they have now, to see the difference? These things cannot be said to be a disaster here. I mean, mercy! Come to the Department tomorrow and let you know what you want to see what's going on. It's useful to know. You are parliamentarians, you cannot come here to say general and vague things, "to do that, to do that." Come see what's going on, what an effort. Besides, I know very well that you are learning, because you have contact with the port operators and you know very well what they all think about them, who have nothing to do with politics and ideology with SYRIZA and the ANELs. People see how we work and publicly placed. Let me ask you one more question. The Aegean Sea did not know that it is being smuggled by tourist boats and yachts from Turkey with Turkish flags and other flags, with illegal charters and illegal charters? Did you know or didn't know? Because, if you knew, you have responsibilities. If you didn't know, you were inappropriate, so I'm returning the condition of incapacity. What happened this year? Or do you not read these? Ten cases were caught within a month. Today, a large European company, which was owned by most of them, said: "We must respect the laws of Greece." For five years, as the operator of leisure boats has confessed, you have closed your eyes in front of this reality. Now the effort and the organization we're doing at the Port is such that we hit and we're going to break all these phenomena. To know well, all those who walked in, enjoyed, bought, without paying for a euro. That is the political will of this ministry, and that is also apparent in the persecution, in all areas, and particularly in this matter that we are now discussing. Let me say something about cruise ships and close, Mr President. I didn't hear you say about the flag of cruise ships. It's none of your business? The Minister for Maritime Affairs also had the courage in the committee and I will tell the House that we will certainly support the cruise operators, but they too must put a little hand in the pocket. It can't and it's not right that there isn't actually a ship without a Greek flag on the cruise. You know what that means and that's what we had to be together. You're supposed to be together. These are issues relating to the country, not the Minister of Shipping, nor the Minister of Tourism, nor the ANELs or SYRIZA. It's all about Greece. These are the thoughts I wanted to put forward. I am thinking of what has been said, Mr President. My use is quite a few things and I'll also take the initiative to invite colleagues to a meeting. However, I would ask all the parties' leaders to have a meeting in mind, in order to take this planning into account, because shipping, with all the accompanying it, can really prove to be a very critical area of development of the country, if we all dare - and I say it myself - to face up to the fact that many times have been created, irrational logic that possesses various actors, to be able to find the common place to feel that, from the government's position or from the opposition's position, with a creative dialogue, free from obsession, we will help home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u319	Thank you, Minister for Maritime Affairs and Islands Policy Mr Panagiotis Kourublis. Before we move on to the Parliamentary Representatives, Mr Metarakis has asked for the floor on a matter. Minister, just a moment, let Mr. Metarakis say something. Please, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u320	Thank you, Mr President. I only asked the floor for half a minute to explain to the Minister what exactly I said in my prototype. I said that Greece has a great comparative advantage as the safe destination in the Southeast Mediterranean. However, the events of immigration in the last two and a half years have adversely affected the image of security in the country. I didn't say there was a security issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u321	Thank you for clarifying, Mr Mitarakis. Mr Ioannis Kefaloyannis, Parliamentary Representative of the New Republic, has the floor for 12 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u322	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I listened very carefully, and I appreciate you very much. But you will allow me, because I think I have heard some things which at least gave me a great surprise. They heard an experienced politician, a politician who, for about thirty years, has been in Parliament - may have been in a previous party, namely PASOK - again denounces the political system, which is well known, actually denounces himself. This is what a new Member of Parliament tells you, who was only elected in 2012. There is the oxymomile at the moment: a politician who, for his own reasons - I do not judge it - changed it to a party, denounces the old political system, which was indeed pathetic. I expected at least of you and many others from the government a brave self - criticism, which I did not hear. In your honour, of course, a few days ago you asked for a public apologies for expressions which had been heard in the previous parliamentary term about germans. This is your honor, which, unfortunately, has not been followed by your colleagues from SYRIZA or the Independent Greeks. You should, however, admit that today's debate, unlike the debates that were in corresponding questions, when SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks were in opposition, is done and carried out in a civilised political environment. You may disagree. We may have different political assessments. But at least no designations have been heard, no designations are being heard, and we are here to contribute to matters which are of common interest. They heard there were ideologies and there are ideologies. In fact, in the past, as other colleagues have said, when, for example, Kostas Karamanlis tried to move on to privatization and actually bring about a strategic investor, which was 'COSCO', the opposition, if you remember, did everything, in fact, to prevent it and when he was in the government, he did everything in order to keep this great investment in the port. I am delighted to hear you have heard today praise the 'COSCO' for the investments it makes and how much you supported it in the next few days. Of course, in that we are allies. But it is also good in this Chamber at some point to become self-critic. Mrs. Kundura, sitting next to you, was in New Democracy. Of course, she had supported and continued to support and knows how much I appreciate her. But at some point we must all be here, because we have our route, and we must know what to say. We cannot constantly denounce the old political system when we have been part of it. I'm actually going to the point now, Minister. Those involved in tourism know very well that this is an extremely fragile product. Many colleagues have mentioned it in the New Democracy. Of course, like every currency, it has two sides. So the wider geopolitical developments in our neighborhood for our country and for Greek tourism also had their negative and positive side. The government, of course, has, today, chosen as a basic excuse for reducing the traffic in the cruise in Turkey. Accepted. To a large extent, it is the truth. But you should also have the political courage to admit that the corresponding increase in tourist arrivals is very much linked to the wider geopolitical data in the Southeast Mediterranean region. The geopolitical data cannot therefore be invoked. We cannot, in other words, beat them as a government success when they work for us and treat them as a bad external juncture when they work against us. Most of all, however, they must not be used as an alibi to hide under the carpet significant structural weaknesses of Greek tourism. For example, how can we explain that in 2014-2016 arrivals increased by about 5.5 million, while revenues increased by only around EUR 500 million? Do we have any concerns about the fact that the average daily expenditure per visitor and per night is constantly decreasing? Why, for example, after the attempted coup in Turkey we have not been able to attract visitors of high income who have overwhelmingly chosen Spain's tourist resorts? Unfortunately, the answers, Madam President, to these questions are not at all pleasant. Is there or not a question of our country's high-quality hotel infrastructure, which is obviously saturated? Is there or not a question of the seasonality of arrivals, which is supported by the absence of investment in integrated tourist development resorts? But how can these investments be completed when there are minimum spatial guidelines for tourism? How can they be implemented when, under the government's responsibility, a 1987 anachronistic framework of land use is in place, with which no one knows not only what he can do but where he can do it? How can a Greek tourist accommodation with the existing overtax scheme be competitive when, in order to have the same operating profit as the corresponding Cypriot, the room price for the customer should be 34% higher? I think it would be useful in your speech to tell us what will happen at the end of the night. Will it or will it not apply from 2018? I think that tourism operators are waiting for a responsible answer. I fear, however, that the government in these questions has no answer. The worst part is that, if at some point the geopolitical data of the region goes for the better, all that remains and will appear in all its majesty will be the lack of strategy and plan over time for Greek tourism. It is just, unfortunately, in the case of the cruise that this has happened a long time ago. Both our rapporteur, Mr Consolas and the New Democracy colleagues have asked you some very specific questions and problems facing the cruise industry. I am going to focus on the most important, perhaps, in my opinion, which has been put forward by many colleagues and that is the creation of home ports, which I consider to be emblematic about the Government's attitude to the development of the sector. Of course the question is why we care about home porting. Obviously, to connect it to the previous ones, because it is one of the most important steps to rehabilitate the Greek cruise from the wider unstable environment of the Eastern Mediterranean. Regardless of this, however, the second reason why we are interested in home porting is because, at the moment, it is the most profitable part of the market for Greek data. I am referring, of course, to the Greek data, because I do not think we can look forward today to the cruise industry, which contributes about 26% of the revenue on the cruise market in Europe, because this sector does not simply exist in our country. Nor can we hope at the moment for a domestic cruise market. Greek cruise passengers are just few. Therefore, the country can hardly be dismantled from the costs of large companies to advertising, agency, ticket selling, market research, which are also a very large part of the wider market. So what do we have left, ladies and gentlemen? The home porting, the participation of two other important sources of market revenue: the costs of passengers and cruise companies in home ports, i.e. equipment, supplies and all costs incurred by a cruise ship, as well as the costs of repairing and maintenance of cruise ships. But there's a misunderstanding here. When we say that our ports lack infrastructure, we are not just talking about the technical characteristics of the ports, which are of course necessary to welcome cruise ships. That might be the easiest way to deal with. There are eighty criteria that have drawn up large companies, which must meet a port, so that home port can be attractive. I'm filing it for the Minutes, for whoever's interested. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Kefaloyannis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] If you read, Minister, carefully, you will see that they include criteria from the depth of the port and the length of the pier to the political stability and the level of the port fees. However, they also include criteria such as the existence and hours of sites of historical interest, road infrastructure - Mr Karamanlis mentioned it - and the possibility of visiting nearby tourist destinations, air connection, health infrastructures and so on. Here, then, ladies and gentlemen, why the development of the cruise cannot be cut off from an overall strategy for Greek tourism. Today there are at least five ports, which in theory could shape and meet enough of the criteria to be attractive home ports. If you are really interested in developing home porting, take this list of criteria, see which ones are met and which is not, devise a plan, find the financial tools, set a timetable and proceed, finally, to their implementation. These are concrete steps, since Minister Kourublis told us to make concrete proposals today. What else could you do? Perhaps you could follow the good example of other European countries. Ladies and gentlemen, in most European ports the management of ports and the costs of infrastructure development and maintenance have been borne by the companies which have and the cruise ships, with the so-called 'BOT agreements', i.e. 'Build-Operate-Transfer'. Why are they doing this? Because this is how they ensure control over the quality of the services they offer their passengers, but also why they acquire stronger links with the ports, which by definition they use as home ports. At some point the government must understand that shaping a visitor's experience is an extremely complex process, which is altered as a tourist product offered among many stakeholders. Whether we like it or not, the trend worldwide is to be managed as much as possible in less hands. Why is that so? Obviously not for profit reasons, as some parties in the Couple will claim or even counter-population. It happens very simply for reasons of quality assurance of the visitor’s experience. This is where someone should start if they want to deal with the cruise problem in Greece. Either you do or you do not want such an attitude that will lead to a new cruise policy simply does not exist. Unfortunately, after seven years of memoranda, prolonged recession, primary surpluses that the government recently agreed to in 3.5%, the debate on the development of port infrastructure is still taking place in terms of privatization and privatization. I am afraid, if you continue with the same outdated concepts, a market like that of the cruise, which can add at least 1% to the GDP of the country, will, unfortunately, remain an untapped opportunity for our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u323	Thank you Mr.Ioannis Kefaloniannis, Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, MP Rethymnon. Mr Nikolaos Igoumenidis, Parliamentary Representative of SYRIZA, MP in Heraklion. Here, Mr. Igoumenides, you have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u324	Thank you, Mr President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are seeing the issue of tourism as a key pillar in our attempt to recover most of the country's lost GDP over recent years. We see our country as a basic pillar of tourism in the Eastern Mediterranean. To do this, a national plan really needs to be drawn up, we need in this national plan to see aspects of the country's tourism development. In this sense, let me make a review of the previous debate: they do not need to be irritated - even right - thinking, for example, about medical tourism. It is a matter with so many aspects, which is exhausted in the adoption of a common Ministerial Decision to certify health service providers. Nor should we be talking about tax relief in some tourist enterprises, even in the name of competitiveness. A national planning is needed. In such a design we need to see the issue of the cruise. He says Mr Athanasios: "The debate had to be held a month earlier." But it happened a month earlier in the Committee of the Regions. Why, gentlemen of the New Democracy, do you come back and even repeat things that have been said in that committee? Greece should be at the top of the cruise. In order to achieve this, an open mind, modern ideas and a discharge of ideas is needed. I am taking some of the evidence Mr Karamanlis mentioned. Did you have this information, yes or no, as a New Democracy, when you managed not to finally have the number of small, medium-sized and large ports, bastions and anchorages in the country? Either you weren't free of ideas or you didn't have an open mind or you didn't have any modern ideas or you had all this, but in the end you were so nervous about the development of the cruise that was acting paralytically. According to one answer to the other - take whatever you want from the two - you are firstly inadequate to manage the cruise issue we are discussing, but you are also inadequate to manage the country's fate. Let me also accept opposition on the basis of not what has been done, but on the basis of what is planned to be done according to your assessments. Indeed - the Minister stood up and thankfully he also explained Mr Metarakis - we must leave out of the controversy - whatever confrontation - the security of the country. Ladies and gentlemen, not just does not leave us indifferent to the cruise sector, but we consider it to be one of the many linkages associated with the main strategic axes of national tourism policy. Firstly, the cruise is linked and must be linked to the exercise and deepening of seasonal policies or, as we call it, to 'three hundred and sixty-five days a year'. The Minister for Tourism has repeatedly talked about this, but also about the government's measures in this strategy. Secondly, the cruise can and is linked to the productive activities and capabilities of the site, which have a significant comparative advantage. Apart from interconnecting with our particular agri-food forces, it is also important to be able to interconnect with thematic tourism. Thirdly, the cruise can and must be linked to the creation of conditions of sustainable, balanced and socially fair tourist development, with respect for the environment, the cultural heritage and the specificities of local communities. I would like to focus on a number of points. Firstly, in addition to the number of cruise ships arriving at the Greek ports, the long-term dynamism of the state should, indeed, be based on qualitative and structural factors of competitiveness. Of course, this is a very important position in terms of the strengthening of port infrastructure. Second theme is the starting ports, the home porting. He said Mr Karamanlis that the situation in the neighbour increased the ports of departure. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will also take the time of my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u325	There's no dentistry. Finish if you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u326	All right, Mr. President, I'll be done. The increase is not only due to fear from developments in the neighbouring country. It is precisely because of the government's efforts to strengthen home porting. In this same direction, it is also important to strengthen the direct air connections which are a key to the development of the cruise. It helps and is the result of government efforts on the direct line of Dubai - Athens - New York, as are the lines with Asia, which are planned to open. As regards developments in the wider region of the Middle East, they were described as favourable to the development of tourism. Bad lies. What must be of interest to us first of all is peace and stability in the region. We must move in that direction. That's what's gonna happen. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Greece, however, must now take measures and be prepared for the cruise, in the context of the national tourist strategy, so that, when peace and stability are restored in the wider region, it remains a step ahead of our neighbours. Ladies and gentlemen, one final comment - I am closing with it - and thank you for your tolerance, Mr President. As in the case of the thematic tourism, in my opinion also in specific forms of tourism, such as cruise, maritime tourism, promising diving tourism, the result will be judged by linking our culture and by defending the value of work. Workers, tourist professionals, local communities must have the main dividend to tourism. They're the faces we have to keep in mind before every move we make. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u327	Thank you to SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative Nikolaos Igoumenidis, MP Heraklion. Parliamentary spokesman for the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR Mr Theodoros Papatheodorou, Member of the Achaeas, for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u328	Thank you, Mr President. Madam President, I have a feeling that sometimes in discussions of this kind there should be an account of the government's work, because before that I felt that you were fighting the MPs for what they said. The accountability of the government's work is what you have done so far, how this area of responsibility went ahead. In any case, the assumption is that, at global level, the number of cruise tourists exceeds twenty million, noting an average annual growth rate greater than that of total tourism and in Europe in recent years, we have a growing trend. It is worth noting that the Mediterranean share is growing every year, especially during the summer period. In 2010, by legislating the lifting of the cabotage - you will remember - it was decided that Greece should forcefully claim its fair share in the global cruise, and it was certainly a success and an initiative of the PASOK government that succeeded - by presenting the results - from 2010 to 2013 to an increase of visitors with a climax in 2013. Since then, there has been a stability. However, Greece may be in the third place, as a country with the greatest visitability in the Mediterranean, despite recent trends are not growth but downwards. There are signs of weakening Greece as a destination, mainly due to the complete withdrawal of the Black Sea cruise, the continuing conflict in Syria, but also the refugee problem, as well as the serious problems of the terrorist attacks, the unstable political environment in Turkey, as well as international developments of instability in some Eastern Mediterranean countries. A country like Greece, however, with destinations of unique beauty and diversity, with history and culture, can and must evolve in the coming years to a leading cruise destination and even for all year round. The reason why we should be concerned about the development of the cruise in Greece, although one could argue that the cruise as a whole is a relatively small market, a whole in the tourism sector, is because the country has the potential to disproportionately claim a large proportion of the market. In this context, I have the impression that the government must consolidate the country's suitability as a cruise destination, primarily improving port facilities and establishing ports - some ports - which have the potential as home ports. Until today, only Piraeus is seen in the top ports of home ports of the Mediterranean, which in recent years have reduced its arrivals. The consolidation of ports as home ports is of the utmost importance for the country, as this increases revenues, even doubled by this form of tourism. However, it is worth noting that both a cruise ship and each passenger separately leave multiples of euros in a home port than in a port of transit. So what steps has the government taken in recent years to establish the main ports as starting ports? What has he done in this direction? How much has ‘COSCO’ been used to attract Chinese cruise tourists, with Piraeus as a starting point? How much has the new international airport been exploited in Kastelli as a regional home porting perspective for the ports of Heraklion and Agios Nikolaos? What, for example, has happened with which it is located in the wider region of Western Greece? What has happened with the improvement of the facilities in the port of Katakolo, where we have a million tourists arriving, visiting the archaeological sites of Olympia? So how much have the facilities improved, the interconnectivity with airports so that cruise companies do not have suspensory factors to make the Greek ports start-up? How much has a stable tax environment been ensured to help attract cruise companies to Greek start-up ports? For our part, we have proposed a national strategic framework for this whole period, which favours the sector's growth potential and the country's undeniably comparative advantages. This plan includes the following axes: The shipping axis. Here we need incentives to attract ships to the Greek flag, a more favourable environment for the operation of ships with a foreign flag, in order to choose central Greek ports to supply fuel and feed, with a view to regionalising economic results. The portal axis. Upgrade the institutional framework in order for port authorities and port funds to be able to develop long-term investment strategies and promotion policies. Development of integrated passenger and ship management systems with electronic applications and services. The destination axis, in order to provide support for the development of local strategies in line with national objectives, contact points to enable these destinations to seek cooperation with cruise companies. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will ask for your tolerance for less than a minute. It needs to be: a new destination project based on its characteristics in specific sections of the cruise market. To lay down guidelines for the development of cruise destinations as an auxiliary tool for the administration of destinations. Build a campaign for the overall improvement of the country's image as a secure destination. At the marketing level, the country must be based on the grouping of destinations, for example, the ring of Igoumenitsa and Corfu, to be able to cultivate more effectively a strong commercial image for the cruise, which will combine the Ionian Sea with the coasts of Western Greece, but also the synergies that must exist between other forms of tourism, such as cultural tourism, gastronomic, tour guided, religious, that is to say, interconnectivity of actions, which will support a small part of the cruise market in order to become greater. These synergies, represented in an integrated product, can establish the country as a cruise destination, and even throughout the year, as well as the country's climate conditions favour the cruise and outside the summer months, even allowing for increased visits to mainland Greece. The question is: Which of these actions has the government implemented? What is the government's plan for the coming years? Because so far what we have heard does not seem to be a plan, but it is reminiscent of a string of actions that have not yet been assessed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u329	Thank you, Mr. Papatheodorou. We proceed with Mr Nikolaos Kouzilos, Parliamentary spokesman for the People's Association - Golden Dawn, MP I Piraeus, who has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u330	Thank you very much, Mr President. We also had this question, because there is this question today. I should also like to correct the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman, that it is not a committee, but it is also in the Committee on Production and Trade and in the regions which have been explained and given explanations - by both ministries, and tourism and shipping. We were surprised at the question of the New Democracy that you are not commenting on the flag issue at all and you did not make a reference to how many Greek flag ships were there ten, twenty, thirty years ago and how many are there today. Let's go now and see the question of the New Democracy. It states that the government has appeared unprepared to understand the dynamics of the cruise, so that the great loser is our country. We have the following question here: Have you, as a New Democracy, understood it when you ruled along with PASOK? I say this because if we take the evidence and see how many passengers were on the cruise, they will certainly not satisfy you with the results. From 2012 until today we remain in the third in fourth place. There is another question here about competition, namely whether we are competitive. New Democracy says so, SYRIZA calls it with the ANELs that we're trying to be. It's not a question of us trying to do it. The question is what line the European Union is going through, because if you listen and talk to some bodies, you will be told 'we are trying and doing what is going on, but the European Union is giving priority to Spain and Italy'. Of course, by 2020 a piece of pie, according to forecasts and studies, will have been taken by Asia. In 2012, at Posidonia, the then Minister of Finance Mr Stournaras said that Greece would become more attractive to the cruise. The Ministry of Shipping announced the six moves to develop the cruise. In a simple question, which we tabled, on "Problems in the Greek Cruise" on 21-1-2013, the answer was "According to the announcement and the national port strategy 2013-2018...". - Why, was there ever? - and continued "... the development of marine tourism and the cruise industry is one of the main priorities of the Ministry". Was it a priority ever? I'll explain to you later why it wasn't. And he continued: "With regard to the issue of port infrastructure, I note that the Ministry's policy is through the relevant Secretariat-General for Ports and Port Policy, that there is concern about the continued upgrading of the port infrastructure in the country and the improvement of the port services provided". Can you tell us what these big infrastructure projects you were doing? Let me remind you of a project, what you were saying at the time about the Falcon Delta, and it had then announced the Minister of the New Democracy EUR 120 million for it. Then studies came out and they said it was inappropriate. It's just, it's all been stunning moves. There were statements by your ministers, the New Democracy, who said "we will see that there are cruise services all year round". In 2014, the Ministry of Shipping did not answer a question about serious deficiencies in all the ports of the country, which is a study according to the annual report made by the Shipowners' Union and is one of the captains themselves. I continue with the questions of the New Democracy. You say that in all these problems, the lack of an integrated cruise support policy will also be added. You say that we are not competitive, that infrastructure needs improvements, that we have not simplified procedures and that there is no real projection policy. You have ruled, gentlemen! You've been ruling for many years! Do you remember what happened before? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] I would like your tolerance, Mr President. You are also talking about disincentives, such as fuel tax, and the issues relating to the supply of ships. But when you talk about it, what are you doing all these years? If you want, we believe that SYRIZA can't do anything about it either, because if there's a tax, there should be consent from the outside. If you want to face the challenges, you are facing another problem - and this is about SYRIZA - which is very serious at the moment and is about currency, because money is coming to the country right now, which shipping agents cannot make available on the cruise ship. There is the problem with the National Bank at the moment that it does not approve the amounts and disbursements. You say below that the development of these infrastructures can be carried out by the cruise companies under a concession contract by the Greek State. Yes, sir. That is your aim, basically, that is to be able to give it all up for concessions and go where you want. Yes, sir. You talked at some point about Lavrio. When the cruise companies told you 'give Lavrio, we do not want the contract, we do not want you to grant it to us, let us make infrastructure projects and develop the cruise', why didn't you give it?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u331	..................................................................................................................................................................... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u332	It's close to the airport, however, directly connected, Mr. Karamanlis. From 2013 to 2014 they asked for this. They didn't say anything. The whole area would've been growing. In 2013, the EBRD had made the following suggestion, to have a connection between port, institutions and city, that is to say, connect all three together. Of course we do not see this today in SYRIZA. In order to upgrade port infrastructure, we do not need to say more, as do all the rest that has not yet been done. As regards the setting-up of a National Cruise Council, the entities requested it from 2013-2014. The reply from the Ministry that we received in 2015, which has been requested by many institutions and have carried out parliamentary control, is that the national body will start to be created. Do you know when the first meeting was held? A year later, 27-7-2016. The second took place on 20-10-2016 with the following topics: infrastructure, commercial issues, maritime policy address, support services, with twenty-eight members. Member of this committee, do you know what he said to me?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u333	But please complete this.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u334	I shall conclude, Mr President. What he said to me, after laughing at the man, was "two eight members, will we ever have a quorum?" And everyone started laughing. In general, 36 billion is spent on European ports from the cruise, and unfortunately you have not succeeded either. Why am I saying that? Because in the last few years you have been ruling, we only have a piece of 600 million, unfortunately. Proposals and what they are all asking for are infrastructure, internal peace, stable pricing policy, stable policy, connection of ports with airports, reduction of bureaucracy, clearing of the country into the global cruise map, exploiting geopolitical conditions, long-term and short-term planning and planning, system of predefined port locations and the creation of Directorate for Tourism.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u335	Thank you, Mr. Kouzeli.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u336	I'm hanging up with this. Our country could achieve this, but unfortunately we see that this year too we will lose this bet. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u337	Christos Katsotis, Parliamentary spokesman for the Communist Party of Greece, speaks for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u338	Thank you, Mr President. The tourism sector is indeed on a dynamic path of growth. It is precisely on this dynamic path of development that we have an intensity of war with further reductions in wages, with intensification, with endless hours, with unpaid and insecure work, with individual contracts, with flexible forms of employment, with infinite wages, with incomplete wages, with the absence of collective agreements and, of course, with the abolition of the right to take up the single one in the twenty-year period, with a reduction in unemployment benefit, with the abolition of heavy and unhealthy jobs. Exactly, then, at this stage of development, the war continues from business groups to tourism. This is, therefore, growth, the status of austerity and poor wages. 'This is the development of tourists', Minister, the workers are shouting. Heavy industry, but there is no holiday for the people, and that is the result of the policy that is being pursued with regard to workers. The workers in the sector all respond with a 24-hour global strike on 20 July. They're claiming their claims. They're claiming what you deprive them of. With our present position and our time, we cannot fully develop the JRC's proposal for cruise and shipping in general. However, the policy proposal of the JRC as a whole is designed to meet the current needs of the workers and not the profit of the monopoly business groups. In this direction, it is now also on a number of issues relating to the question of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group on the Cruise, but also the views of the Government, as expressed today by the Minister for Maritime Affairs and the positions of the other parties. Worldwide, it is known that the fleet of the International Cruise Union, with 2006 figures, consists of four hundred and fifty-eight ships, with more than two hundred thousand seamen. Of them, 80% work without collective agreements, no social security. Seventy - two hours a week are employed, with a basic salary of $550 and any passenger tips. The conditions are almighty, with many of the crew not being able to see the sunlight for days, being forced to work on herdly closed decks on ships. Generally, working conditions are exhaustive for seafarers on board vessels, as are food and tourism workers, the 'heavy industry', as you call it. This model of development of seafarers and workers in tourism, with the vulnerability of the labour force, with full flexibility in employment, in general with the status of a far-reaching and life-threatening system for workers in the public strata, requires capital as a whole and is promoted by the political forces that serve it in the industries and in the workplace. This is the model of the growth that the bourgeoisie wants: capitalist barbarism. This model is also presented by the representatives of shipowners and other associations. You are competing, gentlemen, like the other parties in the chapter, with the reserves of the governments you form, on who is the most effective expression of the bourgeois order and in the specific case of the armouring capital. The Minister for Maritime Affairs is told that the Minister for Tourism has returned all over the world to manipulate the needs of capital in tourism and cruise. At this time it is known that the confidence of all these business groups is in the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, which does dirty work, with sweeping changes at the expense of seafarers and, more generally, working class and popular strata. Otherwise, the calls for a Greek flag are too much. Both in the question of the New Democracy and in the reply of the Minister, which expresses the Government's position, the real reasons for the reduction of the cruise in Greece and the Eastern Mediterranean are being clarified. The switching of cruise routes was not only due to internal developments in Turkey, which undoubtedly took place. The intra-imperialist contradictions and competition in the area for the control of the new markets are dangerously exacerbated. Concentration of military forces, warships and other means of war, military operations and interventions, planning for border changes, all of this results in changing the designs of business groups, transferring their activities to ensure their profitability. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] The involvement, participation in imperialist plans, in the wars of the United States - NATO - European Union, is a choice of capital and is implemented by its governments. The consequences are painful for the people in the wider region. NATO's presence in the Aegean Sea - invited by the government under the pretext of the refugee crisis, which our country's bourgeoisie creates - fuels the intransigence and intensity of the aggression of Turkey's bourgeoisie, the flagrant violation of our country's sovereign rights. The geostrategic upgrading of the country is projected as a national target by the Government SYRIZA - ANEL, New Democracy, PASOK and other parties of capital. It is aimed at upgrading the role of our country's bourgeoisie in the region, its participation in prey from the robbery of the regions and peoples. That's the reality and he can't hide. Capitalist development, in addition to exploitation, unemployment and poverty, has in its DNA and the great controversy that their exacerbation leads to imperialist wars and interventions, with painful consequences for the people. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. The JRC is developing militant action against the imperialist war, is massively projecting its position to the people, which is a valuable supply and is dialectically bound to the daily struggle of the labour movement. The design for the conversion of Greece into a hub, a hub of the Eastern Mediterranean, with ports that will be home ports, as you said - ambitious target for shipowners and, more generally, for the Greek bourgeoisie - runs counter to the very capitalist barbarism, the exacerbation of competition and the strategy of monopolistic companies that dominate the cruise industry. None of the companies - colossal companies on the global cruise market were interested in carrying out home porting activities in Greek ports after the full lifting of the cabotage in 2012. Of the forty ports hosting cruise ships, in the nine - Piraeus, Thessaloniki, Corfu, Heraklion, Souda, Kavala, Volos, Igoumenitsa, Patras - members of the European ports Cruise, since 2012, with the complete lifting of the cabotage, arrivals have not only increased, but have decreased even in home porting. It is characteristic that in 2010 we had a million five hundred sixty-sixty-nine thousand twenty-sixteen a transit passengers and five hundred-three-two-four thousand four-seven-seven home porting. In 2015 we had one million six hundred ninety-seven thousand sixty-five passengers transit and three hundred fifty-seven thousand five hundred sixty-two home porting. With the anti-grassroots policy of the European Union, the abolition of cabotage in all categories of boats under Regulation 3577/1992 and the seal of the current government of SYRIZA - ANEL, like the previous ones, of the New Republic and PASOK, tens of thousands of Greek seafarers were persecuted by ships. They were replaced with a cheaper workforce to increase the profits of armaments capital. Mass unemployment and the intensity of the exploitation of seamen have degraded the rules for the navigation and protection of human life at sea. It's known the accidents that exist. Anyone who looks at the decisions of the shipowners will find that their unprecedented claims are promoted by bills, interventions, questions and others. The disappearance of the shipowners' tax on fuel supplies and the supply of cruise ships and the granting of port infrastructure to the cruise monopolies, which the government has already promised today, as is required by the Residential Antipolitics, through its question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u339	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u340	I shall conclude, Mr President. The privatization of the PPA and the other ten major ports, airports and other strategic industries in industry and energy, together with the intensity of the government's anti-popular policy, is promoted by the suppression of labour struggles. This policy is a dead end. The only way is by counter-attacking workers and people to cover losses, demanding modern needs on another path of development, in another form of organization of the economy. Of course, then, ship repair, but also cruise and shipping and transport will be a popular right, with cheap and safe transport for all the people.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u341	We continue with the Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks, George Lazaridis, for six minutes. I would ask you to be consistent in time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u342	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to start with a couple of comments to my previous colleagues. I am starting with the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, who filed reasonable complaints about the obstacles that some people put to the Karamanlis government at the time trying to make investments in the ports, to exploit the ports, to privatise certain areas, etc., and then some people went and chained to the bars. I would like to remind the Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy that those who put the obstacles and chained up were the following partners in the New Democracy. They made them partners after the New Democracy. It was PASOK. They're chained. Of course, the mutated New Democracy, the neoliberal New Democracy, as I have said before, has become a partner with the PASOK. So the complaints there at PASOK. I heard the PASOK Parliamentary spokesman say that by 2013 the cruise was increasing and that from 2013 onwards the cruise was stagnant. So let's see here the numbers, let's see what the cruise was stagnating and what growth was in 2013 and 2014. In 2013, cruise arrivals in our country were two million and ninety thousand. In 2014 the arrivals were two million, thirty - eight thousand. In other words, we had an increase of forty thousand people. In 2015, from two million thirty - eight thousand, we went to two million five hundred and fifteen thousand. In 2016 we went to the three million three hundred thousand. So what stagnation did the cruise show? The cruise exploded. Generally, the tourism sector in our economy is a dynamic sector for which we are proud.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u343	What evidence do you have, Mr. Comrade? We have other things.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u344	I'll give it to you. It's official evidence and will be at your disposal. If you are questioning them, submit your own information to compare them. Ladies and gentlemen, in one of the most promising sectors of tourism with a dynamic growth of 7% a year, it is a question of increasing market share through a series of strategic movements. Last year, cruise visitors reached 3.3 million, which shows Greece in an important attraction with regard to this sector, with Greece becoming the third most popular cruise destination in Europe in 2017. An important role in this has been the activity of a Greek company, a private initiative, with a number of routes in the Aegean Sea, with its ships traveled last year twenty thousand Greeks, increasing the order of 48% compared to 2015. The development of cruise and marine tourism is a strategic choice and priority for Greece and its tourism and, of course, it seeks to strengthen its position on the global map of marine tourism, with emphasis on increasing the cruise and visitors' programmes in popular and new rising Greek destinations. The further development of the maritime tourism sector would help the development of the port of Piraeus by the Ministry of Shipping, as well as the upgrading of the country's airports. Moreover, the intention of the Ministry of Shipping and the Ministry of Tourism is to adopt a model of public-private partnership, which will help improve the maritime and air infrastructure needed for the country to make full use of its dynamics as a first-line destination for cruise. The use and development of the cruise has a great potential, as the Mediterranean is the second great destination. Our country has many comparative advantages compared to other European countries, such as our rich coastline. For this reason, the bet is to take advantage of the fact that the Mediterranean basin remains firmly attractive to cruise companies, with ever higher activity each year, which is also demonstrated by forecasts, as 25.3 million citizens around the world are expected to carry out a cruise in 2017, almost 4% more than in 2016. This is a single industry, which is moving upwards every year for three decades and with a total increase of 62% in the period 2007-2016. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will need your tolerance for a minute, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in 2015 we had a record of 26 million international arrivals and in 2016 we had a new record of 28 million. Greek tourism recorded growth rates of 7% a year, twice the average for world tourism, which is 3%. However, despite the increase in the record of incoming tourism, this year, according to various cycles, the decline in foreign cruise visits is expected due to the geopolitical situation in the Eastern Mediterranean, for example the recent events in Turkey that affect the region. That's a fact. But where does this number come from and what strengthens this rhetoric? It is, of course, supported by the decision of the leading players on the world cruise market to dismantle at this stage wester in the Mediterranean, with the expected reduction of planned approaches affecting our own ports as well. 'Right' one will answer by taking into account all these parameters. The fewer arrivals of cruise ships, however, must not be automatically translated into a corresponding reduction in the number of passengers, as cruise ships that are taking over are larger and that is something to be taken into account. With this in mind, market players insist that this year's final sizes will largely depend on the completeness of these ships, as well as on the participation in cruises that depart and end their route to Greece. The encouraging signs arise - beyond what we have said - and from the information presented by the Director-General of the Athens International Airport during the work of the International Conference on Marine Tourism, 'Poseidonia', which was recently held in Athens. According to this, between January and April 2017, passengers arriving on a flight to Athens, in order to start their cruise, reached twenty thousand, recording an increase of 113% compared to the corresponding period of 2016.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u345	Please hang up with this, Mr. Lazarides.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u346	I shall close, Mr President, in less than half a minute. Ladies and gentlemen, with methodicity, consistency and hard work, the Ministry responsible, pre-preparation of the Minister, has brought amazing results to his sector, and we look forward at the end of this year to seeing that any impact in this sector is limited from the situation that has been created in our neighbourhood. This optimism is not, of course, a meteorological one, but it is based on the following: for the first time, there is a strategic plan for its development in a national tourism policy, a strong framework with preconditions so that private individuals who want priority to strengthening infrastructure in marina and ports and direct air connections, which is constantly demonstrated by the data. In 2016, tourist arrivals exceeded 3.3 million, while in 2017 the strong will of international groups to develop their partnerships with Greece is proved almost daily. For the first time, state and government has a plan and strategy that makes us optimistic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u347	Thank you, too. Mr Ioannis Saridis has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u348	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will also convey to you the opinion of the Central Association on this very important and crucial issue, the cruise issue. A few days ago it was known that in view of the forthcoming critical meetings between the US and Chinese government, a special briefing was made to the officials who would participate in these discussions. The subject of this special information was the correlations of powers, geopolitical balances and, of course, the dynamic that is developing between a mighty and leading force, such as the United States of America and a fast growing force, such as the People's Republic of China. To understand exactly what is happening, in order that they can understand what things have and try to make an appreciation for the future, they were forced to resort to Thucydides. So they called a university professor, who wrote a book called "The Trappy of Thucydides", in which he adequately explains what we see happening today internationally, simply applying today the conclusions made by Thucydides by recording the famous Peloponnesian War. Only we in Greece, ladies and gentlemen, seem to want to learn from our ancestors. In Albania, therefore, where Greeks are being persecuted, they had elections yesterday and regardless of the outcome, Mr. Erdogan promised his love to any party, says, he was the first to the Albanian elections, since he was being chained to the guulenists. Turkish secret services, using the money from every kind of smuggling that allows the political leadership of the neighbouring country to take place on its territory, do everything they can to destabilise the Balkans. In Skopje, everything hangs in a thread. The exacerbation of nationalism in the Balkans is neither an unprecedented phenomenon but, of course, it is not an accident that we are now seeing today. The Cyprus issue, in addition to the obvious attitude of the Turks, and the pro-Turkishism of the English, who remind you that they have recently gone to the production of war aircraft with the Turks in factories in Turkey. I get to the Aegean. The cruises were reduced by four thousand two hundred ninety in 2016 to three thousand sixteen in 2017. That's what the evidence says. These thousand cruise ships calmed the Aegean Sea, not safer. Women and men of the Navy made it safer. It's cooler they've done it. But they could have been even more calm if the government had taken care of them, not only to keep them, but also to increase them. Instead, we deal with who he met, who spoke to and what the Minister of National Defence said, whether Skourletis closes an appointment with the workers from the remote windows and whether Paulakis operated or shot and went by saying. The Aegean cruise is not a simple matter. As insularity is not a simple matter, a concept that the SYRIZA Government ignores its importance and is not a simple case at all. The Aegean cruise for the Centro Association is a national issue. The development of the cruise, which is a promising market for the Greek economy, must also be a national option, mainly for national reasons. We in the Central Association regret the fact that the cruise in Greece does not win. We regret that the course of the cruise is declining, that the reduction is estimated to be about 20% at the same time as at international level it is estimated that tourists have increased by about one million on the cruise. There's no excuse. No geopolitical instability is an excuse, because no geopolitical instability exists at the moment in Greece. We do not have the luxury of ignoring units from GDP, when at the same time we are looking to find out how to save pensions, how to save the funds, because through the cruise we add points to GDP. The infamous equivalents we're looking for are a piece of them and inside the cruise. In order not to allow opportunities to develop into lost opportunities, however, there is a need for practical reinforcement of the cruise industry, both at home porting by Greek cruise ships and at the call level of major companies abroad. Infrastructural in most ports of the country are non-existent. No one doubts that. There is no connection to the ground networks. No one disputes that either. I repeat and close with the position of the Centro Association for the Cruise. Late, my dear colleague, Mano, the question is to be tabled. It's the end of June. It should have been filed two or three months ago.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u349	Then he was filed on May 8th.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u350	The cruise in our Aegean Sea, in our Cretan, in our Ionian Sea, in our seas, in our islands, in our country is a national matter. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. It is not the Government's intentions that the government should be judged. It's not enough. It is judged by its results, it is judged by what the country needs. Today the country needs the results of the government, not in 2060. You're not opposition, you're in government, and you need to understand it at some point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u351	Thank you, Mr. Saridis. The last speaker from the Parliamentary Representatives, the Parliamentary Representative from Potami, Mr Spyridon Dannelis, has been speaking for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u352	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I mentioned about a month ago from this Step, as a parliamentary representative, that it is not possible to wait for a cruise ship to Piraeus two hours ago until the tugs and pilot arrive. I added that we cannot expect an increase in our revenue from the cruise when cruise ships wait two hours to tie to Piraeus, when Piraeus is projecting as one of the main home ports in the Mediterranean and that we do not have the luxury, particularly today, not to form a pro-investment climate. This position has led me to react immediately to the relevant Minister for Maritime Affairs, who hastened to describe my statement as unfortunate, even by issuing a relevant press release, which focused on the timeless indifference of successive governments in relation to the cruise and, in particular, on the issues of the staffing of the Pilot Agency. The immediate response a few hours after my speech in plenary was, of course, a very positive surprise. On the substance, it confirmed the event. The inability to plan properly for the service of vessels, even before the start of the summer burden, undermines the development of a form of tourism, for which many efforts have been made in recent years and of course everyone recognises its importance. The history of timeless indifference for the pilot service can interpret but does not justify today's inability to respond to the increased needs of the first port of the country. The waste of time from the cruise boat's stay in the port is causing discomfort to visitors and deprives the local market of their presence. In government two and a half years already, the Minister should have understood, like all the ministers, that growth is not achieved either by reference to the past or by wishing and good intentions, but by concrete, planned and hierarchical actions. And because the Minister's office, that is, the Minister himself, who unfortunately is not here today, called me with a very aggressive tone to come back to the issue with a timely question for further clarification on his part, I was given the opportunity today to say what I said. Ladies and gentlemen, the cruise, in addition to all others, is an important means of showing Greece, since 22-25% of cruise passengers then return to Greece for holidays. The cruise in our country was expected and reasonable to be influenced by the new situation that has been created in the Eastern Mediterranean region in recent years, as for a second season Turkey is located off scheduled routes of many companies, following recent political upheavals and, of course, the manifestations of terrorism, and neither Egypt nor Tunisia is included in the cruise packages. It is no coincidence, therefore, that in this difficult geopolitical reality the cruise in Greece has been negatively affected. The radical remodelling of cruise packages during the last period, with companies putting more Greek ports in the programme, was an emergency solution, which cannot go away, since, despite the fact that Greece has a choice of destinations and, of course, a very large variety, the absence of appropriate infrastructure in most islands makes it impossible to reach the new larger ships. That is the main reason why the packages to Greece, which have so far been combined with Turkey, are becoming less and less. Of course, it is the networking of ports and destinations that determines quality and therefore competitiveness in a cruise package. The big question and bet is that Greece will be able to transform this crisis into an opportunity for greater development of the cruise as far as it is concerned. Ladies and gentlemen, Greece has many opportunities to increase the possibilities of home porting and the volumes of visitors of cruises. It is not, of course, possible for all ports to be home ports for objective reasons. It also does not mean that intermediate destinations cannot benefit if they promote and properly exploit the unique experiences they can offer to their guests. This, of course, requires an integrated design and organic synergies of all those involved in the cruise case. Greece is able to meet future challenges and developments in the market. He has to stay inside the game in the next few years. This is only achieved with a stable and reliable legal and financial framework for companies active in the cruise sector or seeking to operate in Greece. It must develop an integrated central strategy for development in the cruise sector, including studies on infrastructure development, particularly in regional ports, and provide for a better allocation of funds. The Minister is missing, you are not the proper Minister, Minister of Tourism. They're other ministers. However, there are warm Community resources in the CEF Special Fund, Connecting Europe Facility, in TEN - T, Trans-European Transport Networks for projects or supplies, which will upgrade the facilities of ports and airports, as far as Greece is concerned, the ports and airports of Piraeus, Athens and Heraklion, because they are the cities that have joined the central network of TEN - T, the Trans-European Transport Network. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Please, Mr President, for one, one and a half minutes, not more. These resources are there, they will not wait until they are saved and, of course, from our country has done nothing, no one has been involved in their exploitation. And it's not just them. Should the government, of course, cooperate - and in this case you too, Minister - with large airlines so that there are direct air connections to markets - objectives such as Seoul, Beijing, Singapore - why not? - and Taiwan, the connection with which a joke has become. Finally, the organic interconnection of all public and private stakeholders is an essential condition for the development of the cruise and, of course, not just the cruise. We must finally stop resting on the idea of a good plot and see how this can be developed, not necessarily, but more efficient, more rational and, above all, more sustainable in order to preserve sustainability. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u353	Thank you to the Parliamentary Representative from the River Mr. Spyridon Danellis. Madam Minister, would you now like to speak or, after they have been seconded - if there are secondary cases - ladies and gentlemen? Mr. Consola, what do you think?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u354	Whatever the Minister wants.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u355	Mr President, all colleagues must first end.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u356	Very good. Let's see if there's a second. I see they don't all have secondarys. Most of them have covered the time of their dentistry. Mr. Consolas has a dentistry. Here, Mr. Consola, you have the rest of four minutes with a small tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u357	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I have heard the government's representative, Mr Kurublis. I didn't hear Mrs. Kundura. We reserve with the parliamentary representative some information when Mrs Kouturas speaks. But let me comment, Mr President, on the fact that the government seems not to understand that it has been running for two and a half years. And, frankly, it invokes elements - and continues to stick to them - in the period, in which there was a correction to these positive figures after the situation in the Eastern Mediterranean. And, indeed, this is a common secret, since people on the market and tourism, as well as the daily press, which reflects the concerns of the citizens, are saying so. Let me submit to this introduction a post by Mrs Panagiotreas from the "FLEARER TYPE", entitled "For the... festivities". [[At this point, the Member, Mr Emmanuel Konsolas, presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] That is where the author is concerned, which is also the concern of society itself, what will happen after stabilisation in the wider region of the Eastern Mediterranean, with the figures brought about by the government. We will then celebrate and will not say that we are for the festivals, if there is a deposit of a long-term strategic plan, in which the government proves to have a plan for the next day. He hasn't convinced us there's a plan. In order to resolve this question, this question was tabled on 8 May and was also discussed in the Committee of the Regions. We are pleased every time there is such a public debate at the National Representation. Of course, there is a lot to be debated here after. In any case, however, we are pleased with this debate. And let's go back to today's issue. Greece is a safe country, but we need to capitalise this advantage and so we have to agree that we need a strategic sustainable plan for the cruise, which Mr Karamanlis, Mr Plakatakis and our parliamentary representative also pointed out. As long as this is not understood, there will always be destabilisation variables and gaps in this debate that is made public. Let us briefly mention our position with regard to the elements of the cruise strategy, which are necessary for the country as long as we have once again pointed out that the East Mediterranean hub must be done and indeed with large ports of home ports. It is a reason why Mr Karamanlis testified for northern Greece in relation to Constantinople. We have also submitted to the committee, but also to the public, for the rest of the ports. I also think that the criteria put forward by Mr Kefaliannis can open a dialogue on which of these ports can be converted into home ports. At the same time, the upgrading of the air transport network in our country is a prerequisite, when we see Turkey's competition as having transatlantic connections to its air transport, which we cannot have at this time, namely the possibility of linking continents for the cruise in the Mediterranean and at a time when the government was unable to proceed quickly with the agreements with 'FRAPORT'. There have been two years of delay with consequent problems. The removal of the anti-circuit engines for cruise is another issue that we need to discuss in the next few years, in terms of fuel and also feed. Mr. Kourublis talked about fuel. But he did not reply to us, as is the case in Italy and Spain, which is a matter of immediate urgency, when Malta and Cyprus, which are countries of the European Union, have at this time solved these problems. Another point we need to submit is the granting of port facilities with long-term contracts to cruise companies, in order to upgrade the infrastructure and services of the cruise. Another point is the strengthening of the staff of our consulate electronic infrastructure in non-Schengen countries, particularly in Turkey, Russia and China. Also to upgrade the role of the National Coordinating Committee of Cruise, which is also presented by tourist operators, is an important point, as is the creation of a modern body of visibility and advertising in collaboration with the APRC. Another point is the upgrading of the level of customs, port and police services so that visitors of cruise ships can be served immediately and quickly and without suffering, as well as the creation of new tourist products, which are linked to the cruise, as I mentioned in my prototype. Mr President, I would also like to conclude by saying that a condition for the sustainable development of a strategic plan for the cruise, as far as our country is concerned, is the new markets, such as the Chinese market, and indeed now with the presence of 'COSCO' in the port of Piraeus, which Mr Karamanlis said earlier. What Mr Kourublis and the representatives of SYRIZA and ANEL have said is not the only ones to point out. Mytilini in 2014 had fifty three arrivals, while in 2017 only one. Chios in 2014 had thirty-six arrivals and in 2017 only one. Kos in 2014 had seventy nine arrivals and in 2017 only nineteen. So these islands, which have been affected by the refugee problem, are islands for which the government has not answered what the incentives it needs to invest to lift these small-scale cruise arrivals.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u358	Please complete, Mr. Consola.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u359	I shall conclude, Mr President. We don't have any ideas. We have a culture of understanding and coexistence. In this Chamber all colleagues from New Democracy have tabled their proposals in the same spirit. The development of cruise requires a stable course and open seas. In this direction we will participate in whatever form of cooperation you want in the next period. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u360	Thank you, Mr. Consola. Mr. Placiotakis, you have the rest of you two minutes, if you want to talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u361	Yes, I would like the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u362	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u363	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Kurublis isn't here. Unfortunately, I've been confirmed. After his wishes and narratives, there was no realistic proposal, no plan at all, especially as regards the part of the use of port infrastructure. Things are simpler here and we need to see them practically. For example, we need to study - at least strategically - which are the ports home ports and which ports can meet the criteria that the global providers of the cruise have set, so that our ports are attractive. I present in the minutes the study of the Aegean University setting a number of criteria so that our ports become attractive home porting cruise destinations. This is the important thing, if anyone wants to raise their revenues in this area. This is crucial and important. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Pakisotakis, presents for the minutes the above study, which is located in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Another issue, of course, which I would like to raise, on the occasion of global providers in the cruise sector - because the Minister also told us about the Greek flag - is that five are basically the world players in the cruise area and all these are under a foreign flag. So what's the secret? The secret is to create home porting conditions in our country. In Barcelona, for example, home porting is much more than transit. In Piraeus from one million to three hundred thousand are home porting and seven hundred thousands of transit. You realise that this is where the solution to this issue is hidden, as, of course, with regard to ports, there is a need for modern management by people who are experienced in an internationally competitive environment. We must leave aside the failed states or those who serve political or party purposes and go to a modern administration that requires the internationalised environment. Finally, I asked Mr Kurublis about the lifting of the counter-engineering tax on the supply of cruise ships. We have not received any responses to this matter. As is the case in the competitive countries, what has been the case in the past, both in Italy and in Spain, is the same in our country. So, in conclusion - and I thank you for your tolerance, Mr President - we are positive that there should be consultation in the critical and sensitive sectors of the cruise, as long as there is a project. We expect the Minister, too, to present her views and the Minister for Maritime Affairs, to present his bill, because so far we can only hear a few narratives. He's going to London tomorrow. Let us first solve the problem of capital controls, because the shipping currency has shrinked. From 14 billion to 7 billion. Help him to increase the seaships with Greek flags, to help in this case, but you realise that they all need realistic and practical views, because in the blessings and narratives of Mr. Tsipras' government and his ministers are doing well, they do well in practice! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u364	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u365	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u366	Mr. Athanasios, you have covered the time of your dentistry as well as I see it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u367	Wait a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u368	You have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u369	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Kourublis asked whether there are naive people in this Chamber who believe that the cause of the decline in arrivals in cruise ships is due to immigration. I want to say to the Minister to tell us, in fact, about my country, Mytilini, which is the island that was most affected by immigration from Greece, how he explains that in 2014 we had fifty three arrivals, in 2015, fifty-three arrivals of cruise ships, in 2016, they are falling about halfway through, at 29 -- in the outbreak of immigration - and already anticipated an increase is anticipated. The same for Chios. The corresponding figures for Chios are: Forty-three for 2014 and now only eight are foreseen. The Minister is not here to answer us, despite the fact that we have also had a spectacular reduction in duty flights. While the week came to Lesvos, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, six to eight charter flights a week, last year they did not exceed eight. He's saying that. So that's why the immigration policy brought these issues together. Another issue is this. Because Mr Lazarides also spoke of a strategic plan in terms of the government, I would like to say that what strategic plan, Mr Lazarides, is there? In our embassies and consulates in countries such as China, Russia, Turkey is stacking applications for visas and, unfortunately, there is no staff to process them. They want people to come to Greece to leave their money and cannot come because they do not give visas. I am not talking about the issue we have with Turkey to get into the free visa regime, but I am talking about the countries that I have mentioned. So there is no strategic plan, Mr President, and this is one of the issues that the government needs to see with greater attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u370	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u371	Mr President, I would like to speak for a moment.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u372	Mr. Lazarides, he didn't say anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u373	Not even a minute. Only on visa issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u374	But it can't be. He didn't say anything, he just gave a...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u375	Less than half a minute. Now I'd be done, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u376	Say it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u377	Thank you very much. I would like to say that there is indeed a shortage of staff on the visa issue, but the procedure imposed by the European Union and the time limits to be respected for issuing the visa are specific. So the biggest obstacle is that, and that is where the delays in issuing the visa are due. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u378	I have not referred to European countries. I referred to Russia and China.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u379	The Minister for Tourism has the floor, Mr. Helena Koudoura. How long will it take, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u380	What can I tell you? At least 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u381	Twenty minutes. That's what you're up to, anyway.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u382	Because they have heard too much - and it is too late, I will be very fast, but I will make sure to answer everything. As far as we are concerned, only the Acoustic Opposition and some other opposition parties see a complete collapse in tourism, cruise, which neither the actors nor the professionals nor everyone who is working in tourism nor, above all, the local communities that are seen to have flooded by tourists over the last two years. The strategy we have done is based on five axes and planned it in January 2015 as soon as we took over. We implemented it immediately and we had excellent results - spectacularly, I would say - and in 2015, which was a very difficult year with the threat of Grexit, with political negotiations, with two elections, with economic suffocation, with the referendum. So we managed to have a record of tourism and a record of revenues. In 2016, a very difficult year, with exogenous and unstable factors, with this geopolitical instability in our region, we managed, precisely because our strategy was very targeted, to regain tourism after a record year in 2015. Of course, this third year, in 2017, the real results, with spectacular numbers in prevalences, are now shown in the full details of hotels throughout Greece, which already reach 95%. All professionals are very pleased, since Greece in all this difficulty and the crisis at least has the tourism to give a breath to the national economy. Tourism in the past has been on the autopilot, ladies and gentlemen. As much as you try to distort reality, you will not do so because the market players, the professionals, are the ones who disprove you. The spatial planning, in fact, is a problem. Unfortunately, you made it rough and went down to the Council of State. As far as investment is concerned, you're lying. We have an investment explosion. Only in 2016 we had a hundred forty-two proposals in four and five, and the development law at 50% are business tourists. I would remind you that the five axes of our tourism policy - for the first time there is a real tourism policy and strategy - have had the extension of the period. We started it in 2015 and had a small extension of ten days in spring and another ten days in autumn. In 2016, however, we managed to have the greatest prolongation of all times, that is to say, to start the period in April, to end in November and to have in September, October and November the best months of all times. However, because our goal is to tourism and the three hundred and sixty-five days a year, we managed December 2016 to have a two-digit increase, but above all January, February, March, April and May 2017 to have previously known numbers. "ERGANI" announced a week ago that there has been a record of full-time jobs, that is, two hundred thirty thousand in the five-month period, a record from 2001 before a crisis. This makes us very happy, because much of the jobs are due to the lengthening of the period. How, though, were we prolonging the period? With regard to the thematic tourism that was an unexploited chapter in the past, we managed to unite religious tourism by making the three churches, the committee that had previously been made on paper and was never activated. We have made the Committee on Victims' Sources with a legislation that has taken us a long time, because, unfortunately, the pathogens of the past, forty years, have been very difficult to solve within a year and a half to two years. However, we have finally managed to resolve this serious problem of thermal sources, as they were considered waste and waste. This has been a huge obstacle to the use of thermal sources for some thirty years. As far as the region is concerned, there was never a national regional plan. We have, therefore, in the last two years, done over six - seven meetings with the regions. We have prepared a specific national regional plan to support societies economically and to promote new Greek destinations that were not popular, so that they can benefit all regions in Greece. Very important is the fact that we opened up new markets, such as India, China, the Middle East and we had a huge increase in 2017, since the very valid figures showed that there was an increase of 10% in luxury tourism. So, as far as the issues that are generally related to our strategy in tourism are concerned, I do not understand why you are still trying to undermine, zero, reduce, and you are not happy with the success of Greece. It's like you're doing a memorial service that tourism is going well. Honestly, the factors I am talking to are amazed because, instead of seeing the support and joy that tourism is going very well and supporting the national economy, they see a misery, a undermining, a zeroing and saying, for example, 'even a year'. We heard it before my colleague. What's the matter with the year? What year is it gone? We have historical records in all sizes. We hear 'Note reduction in arrivals'. Who are you telling? The world? The Greek citizens? Professionals? Someone said about Castelli and how the cruise can grow if we reinforce the Castelli. But the Castle is years of announcement. Mr. Consolas has mentioned Satellite Accounts. Yes, you're right, with the Satellite Accounts, which were a year-old announcement, we will of course have reliable evidence. We finished it. Satellite accounts are ready. We have succeeded and made the pilot project, along with ELSTAT, with the Bank of Greece, with the World Tourism Organisation, with SRS, which is the company of the European Commission. And we did it and we finished it. The biggest reform was the codification of tourist legislation. We have taken the laws of a hundred years and made it an integrated digital text, which will of course improve it, because we will also bring the legislation on tourism education. Tourism education has been abandoned. You booked the OTEK. You booked the Tour School. You've booked the P.S.S.S.S.S. You left her alone and collapsed, and you're leaving us, and in a year and a half we haven't been able to correct all the destruction you've done? Talk about cruise policy strategies. When did you have a cruise strategy? When we took over, in 2015, there was no cruise. For you there was not even a plan, a communication strategy, a viewing strategy. You had never gone to only once, I think, five years ago in the biggest cruise exhibition in Miami, to chat with the big tour operators, to close programs, to view, to have a possible presence. You've never done anything. And you're talking about the cruise? We went to the Sea Trade and saw Vice-President Charles Bad Dar of CLIA, Secretary-General Tom Feck, President of the CLIA. We saw Kyriakos Anastasiades, who is a Greek and who is the President of CLIA Europe. We met all the major advisors, such as Eddie Rodriguez of the "CRYSTAL CRUISES", Arnold of the "CARNIVAL CRUISES", Bruce Kramrin of the "PRINCESS", Mark Conroy of the "MERIC SILVERSEA CRUISES". And of course, what it has to do with "PONANT CRUISES AMERICAS" we met Navin Sonney. From the NLC Group we met with the president, Frank Del Rio, from "AZAMARA" Larry Pimentel. We had excellent cooperation with the Greek representatives, such as Mr Stylianopoulos and Mr Dimitrios Kaparis from ZANKA. These people know what they told us? They told us that there was never any interest in Greece and that as many times as they tried to approach or make an appointment with the political leadership, in order for there to be cooperation, it never happened. These are very serious things, denounced by such serious people, who are cruise tycoons. You also have a new account, which you say will now join culture with tourism and that EOT should cooperate with the private sector, the SETE. I want to remind you that this was a model, which has failed miserably. It was reasonable to fail, because the Ministry of Tourism is highly productive, collaborating with all the co-legislative ministries, and I have the luck of being in a government which all the co-legislative ministers support with all their forces tourism for just one reason, because it is a priority of our government and we have proved it. These successes, ladies and gentlemen, in tourism, with these exceptional sizes, especially in 2017, which have now exceeded all our expectations - and wish that everything will go well - so that we have a real increase and - if you like - nothing will happen, which will make us difficult. Because and safe country we are also a friendly country we are towards all tourists whether they are alone or they are coming for wedding trips or organized groupings whether they come in old people who travel and all year round or families. We have, in fact, managed to build so strong relations with the tour operators, which makes me sad at the fact, when I hear some people from Civic Opposition annoying and saying: Why are they telling us that they bring tourists and that they cooperate with tour operators? Isn't it tour operators? You're making a mistake! This close contact, this dynamic we have developed, enables us to make agreements so that with the great tour operators who are global players, such as "TUI", "THOMAS COOK" or "THOMAS COOK" or are local very large tour operators, we can book agreements, we can bring a larger share and we have achieved it, because they trust us and have seen that we are consistent and really have a plan. Also airlines. It is no accident that we have brought six thousand new flights in 2017. We have negotiated and seen all the big companies, all the low cost companies and all the tour operators, who have a charter and their own, such as Musenides from Russia, as they are large tour operators from China, and because this government works collectively and we are going very quickly, through bilateral relations, for example, that we create and open our Prime Minister's way to China, the responsible ministers are talking about accessibility, closing agreements, to bring more flights and companies, as now from China that we will have from September to Beijing and flights from Shanghai. They are already in negotiations with India, so that we can have direct flights there too. I would remind you of 'EMIRATES'. We went four times to Dubai to close this amazing deal, which EMIRATES flys Dubai - Athens - New York all year round. We connected America and the Homosexuality all year round with Greece. I will also remind you that in 2015, only one company was flying, the 'DELTA'. We were able with the help of the Church, with the help of the Folk, all organized very well together, to bring in 2016 and "AMERICAN AIRLINES" and "UNITED AIRLINES". Why am I saying that? Because the American market was a market that had never worked. We only had an office in New York. There was never any contact with tour operators and investors from Los Angeles. Never, as I told you, have you gone to Miami, which is the biggest cruise exhibition, which we have seen there too, investors and, of course, all the leaders, I would say, the cruise. Also very important is that we went to Toronto and Chicago. So we managed to close very important agreements and we had a quite large increase from America in 2016. But, of course, as you know, a preparation takes some time. In 2017, we have a arrival explosion from America. We've gotten over 40 percent of new arrivals from the evidence. I would like to refer to three small issues that you had in your question and Mr Kourublis has not been able to answer. You said about experienced and competent ports and not party. But you've had the whole time to put you experienced and capable in the ports and you didn't. You only put parties. The problem with seafarers has solved it. It was something, which was indeed a problem. Unsolved. There was legislation, it was simply not the implementing body. The Old Faliro, the Falcon Delta, why didn't you do it? Why didn't you move on? As far as archaeological sites are concerned, every year, there was the double shift and summer was from 8 in the morning to 8 in the evening. You know very well that when you were able to do much more important things, you did not. When the crisis came after, we were restricted by financial control, and so it was impossible to move forward. Ports, infrastructure, airports have abandoned them. You have been the ones who have abandoned them, and if you like, with a hypocrisy, you have been coming today and forsaken us, because we have not been able to make all the things you have for years. To close, the little mention of this, I would say: Mr. Rifai, the Secretary-General of the World Tourism Organization, who has known for years what Greece has done like myself, has argued that tourism even in difficult years has kept Greece and has had a small growth path since 2012. That's the truth. Whatever good we've found, we've gone on with it. Just the pathogens of the past were so many and so large, it was impossible to fix everything. CLIA. Increasing 52% to cruise passengers in 2016 and 113% to raise home porting in Piraeus. These are registered numbers. Mr. Paraschis brought you all to Posidonia, which concerns the airport. So to date, you have never had a strategic plan in the field of maritime tourism and the Greek cruise. Sea tourism consists of Greek cruise, yachting and diving tourism. All three of us have started them, we have supported them, and our government has given them priority, has made them promoted and promoted, so that we take into account all the benefits they entail from this development in local communities and, of course, we can strengthen them, as I said before. In particular, for the cruise with the Ministry of Shipping, as the Minister said, we did this National Cruise Coordination Committee. Twenty-eight institutional bodies are involved, which, by the way, are very pleased. I was particularly dismayed that inaccurateness was again heard, not to lie that there was no satisfaction. This committee, apart from meeting many times, also held four subcommittees, the "Infrastructure, Infrastructure", the group "Trade Issues, Promotion and Promotion Policies", the group "International Maritime Policy, Institutions, Organizations" and the group on "Support Services", which also met many times. In particular, there have been too many things, because we have recorded all the problems that had not been dealt with in the past. I do not hide from all of you that they were very pleased because they saw that all of their proposals were heard and some problems had already been solved by law. We, as Ministry of Tourism, collected the part that concerns us. To clarify, we do, if you like, the personal sale - so to speak - through the EOT, the promotion and promotion. In order not to get confused and not to confuse our roles, the Ministry legislates, controls and creates that framework so that individuals can make their trade agreements. At the same time it negotiates and closes agreements to bring more tourist share through advertising, through promotion, through promotion. So this committee is sure to take advantage of all these proposals. For 2017, as Mr Lazaridis was right to say, and some who are more objective - not like the opposition that suddenly came and presented the day, night - as well as the institutions, there may be a slight reduction in ships, cruise ships that come, because there is really very serious problem with Turkey - the only problem is the approaches of Turkey and nothing else that forced some ships to change - but because Greece has too much demand and it is their strategic option, it will have very great growth in the coming years. What we're interested in is for tourists to come. What they say, what the cruise experts think - I mentioned before the names - the international cruise groups, is that if there is to be a slight loss due to the collapse of North Africa, Egypt and Turkey on the cruise, we will manage to have more, perhaps tourists, because the ships are much larger. There's a huge demand, and we have a great deal of security. What is very important to say to you is that we did not rest in America, which is one - if you like - of the biggest markets, but we looked into our efforts, strengthen the cruise, approach the European cruise. So the "TUI GROUP" said it would increase over 20% of the cruise in 2017 as well as MSC. It is therefore very important to tell you that the 'CELESTYAL CRUISES' has increased its cruise ships. I would therefore like you to wait for a memorial to the cruise, because in the way you handle tourism, saying very clearly that there are no political conflicts and micro-party disputes here, that is what you are doing, ladies and gentlemen, and that is really sad. Instead of enjoying that tourism is going very well and there is currently a plan, a four-year-old program that has brought us so quickly excellent results, what you do is distort reality, create false impressions. The worst of all is that, with this tactic, you are not only concerned and confusing tourist professionals, but also all those who invest. For the hundreds of forty-four, five and fifty in the development law, which only concerns tourist investment, is an unprecedented upturn in investment. So you're trying to prevent investors. You're trying to create a fake picture. We will not allow this to happen, neither will we who are working to project our country and support it, nor will the professionals. I think you've really chosen the wrong tactic. You should be happy with our successes, whatever they are, as we have not devalued your own development policy in tourism. It's sad what you're doing. I think you'll be judged by professionals and society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u383	Thank you, Minister. Mr Kefaloyannis, New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u384	Thank you, Mr President. Before I answer the honourable Minister, you will allow me two comments. I have heard from the Parliamentary Representative of the Centroon Association, Mr Saridis, that we have been late to table the timely question. As our rapporteur, Mr Consolas, has said, early May, that is, when some alarming messages from the cruise had begun to come. Madam Minister, we don't deceive anything. These messages - because you have mentioned them many times to the operators - are mentioned by the cruise agencies themselves. Our rapporteur has also submitted this to you. It's not evidence New Democracy says. I have in front of me the information which the Association of Shipowners and Shipowners reports. It does not write New Democracy’ the document. It says, therefore, that on the basis of at least the forecasts in 2017, we will have a reduction in arrivals of around 10% and 20% on ships coming to the ports. That is what the Shipowners' Union says. If it is disproved by the facts, I hope it will be disproved. But the New Democracy does not say so. We invoke data from the official body. So if it's someone to lie, it's the vehicle.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u385	Say the other half. Don't just say the first half.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u386	We are talking about forecasts for 2017. I would like to repeat, if the facts are disgusted to us, that we will be the first to be applauded. Now, as far as what you said was concerned, Greece has been flooded by tourists, in fact, as I said before, it is also the circumstances that are positive, you have also pressed on a positive momentum that has been created since 2012, which has made a rebound of Greek tourism. We don't deceive anyone's work. But you too have the political courage to say that you have pressed on a very positive motionum as a government and that this current has continued. I wish it would continue over the next few years. But you know, Minister, the problem is not the increase in arrivals. At least those who are in tourism know some things. The problem is the tick. When the official figures at the moment show that the turnover for tourist businesses is falling - again by the operators, the New Democracy does not say that - then, of course, there are alarming bells. There is overtaxation of the space. You know very well that on your own government, HNPH increased to tourist enterprises, increased from 26% to 29% the business tax, increased from 6.5% to 14% the night VAT, increased from 14% to 24% the VAT on the catering, increased the dividend tax from 10% to 15%. I asked you, too, in my prototype: What are you going to do with the tax on the end of the night? Will it apply from 2018? Is it not going to be applicable? I think it is a matter that the tourists are putting it to you. You cannot, as a government - I am not referring to you personally - but to say, one day, that the other Minister should not be able to apply them. Specific responses. I also asked you a very specific question. Did the revenue per night decrease in 2016 and 2017?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u387	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u388	You can answer us, give us some specific evidence. At least by the evidence I have, that proves. I told you that over-taxation and the reduction of revenues is something that should worry us all. It is not enough to increase the number of incoming tourists. It is a positive element, but at the end of the day - when the businessman makes a fund, when he makes a fund, he who has the tourist business, will not see how many people went in but how many went in. Unfortunately, the policy you have been implementing in the last two and a half years as a government - I am not referring to you personally - is counterproductive. You take advantage of the fiscal capacity of businesses, because you obviously have seen them as the sacred cow that you can milk them and it is the easy solution - I mean the tourist sector - and, unfortunately, you are deceiving a product - at least tax-free - which, in fact, could be the engine of the Greek economy. You have also referred to tourist education. I will ask you a very specific question. Two English-language sections, in particular in Rethymnon, which I know and also in Rhodes, have been passed on to the previous government. Are you supporting these departments? Unfortunately, the head of the Ministry of Education has not supported them so far. I would like you to refer to these issues in your tritology. Are you in favour of English-speaking departments? You know the very great advantages that these departments may have, such as attracting students from outside the European Union, students who will be able to pay a great price, which will also benefit local communities, as far as the costs are concerned, are concerned, the price they will leave. Unfortunately, the policy of the Ministry of Education over the last two and a half years - particularly in the past two and a half years, following the adoption of the law - is in the opposite direction. I would like you, as Minister, to take a clear position, because in my question to Mr Gavroglou a few months ago, he was committed - you will tell me, it is not the first commitment - that by the end of June the Presidential Decree establishing the two departments in Rethymnon and Rhodes will be ready. It is already over in June and, unfortunately, it seems that these sections have not been created. I would really like a clear answer, because you know, as I said before, you are very lucky as a government, because as an opposition we may often be critical, but we have not reached the point where you were in opposition - I mean the Independent Greeks and SYRIZA - where with deceptive characterisations, with threats many times - many of you have certainly regretted it - you have created a climate of explosives, a climate that certainly did not help in a mild debate. We ask you questions and I have told you many times that we can also make a mistake in our calculations. No one's infallible. But there is a civilised dialogue, which, unfortunately, you have deprived it from the country when you were opposition. We therefore ask you these questions and we want answers not as opposition. The Greek society wants the answers. We really expected specific issues to be raised from your side and not general references to whether or not tourism was going well. I wish it would keep going well. Unfortunately, however, some figures are undeniable. We expect you responsible answers, specific answers, precisely to be judged. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u389	Thank you, Mr. Kefaliannis. Madam Minister, you have the floor for a brief answer, if you please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u390	You're right that some numbers are undeniable. What is undeniable is what we can compare - and there are many sources which have these valid elements - such as arrivals, for example. Arrivals are the independent authority, they are the regional airports, the PLO, the Civil Aviation, the "Eleftherios Venizelos" and, of course, the gates of entry. These are undeniable. So a little - much to the limits of the statistical error we might go out to the arrivals a little bit outside. So we as a Ministry counted twenty-eight million four hundred thousand and the evidence presented was twenty-eight million fifty thousand. It's small differences. I will report to you something that was first and I have said that many times, but I do not want to be the one who says so. The World Tourism Organization is now saying this, ELSTAT says so, SRSS says so, the European Commission, satellite accounts, our EOT offices, etc. So what do they say? They say that for the first time in 2016 the figures presented had an incredible 15% discrepancy. That's never happened. I'm not responsible for answering you. Others are responsible for answering how, for the first time, these data were so vastly different from all the valid data, which has always been at 2% to 3%. So what do I want to say? I'll give you a simple example. Germany says: The Germans who went to Greece have spent an average of EUR 1.271. Our evidence says the Germans who went to Greece spent 560 euros. This can't be because it was for the first time. So what do we do? We know that we have had a 10% increase in luxury tourism. We know it from all the valid platforms, as we say, from Expedia's report, where - attention is the one taking the nights and paying the hotels, so he knows exactly what growth he had - he says 28% nights and 35% increase in the cigarettes, when our EOT offices have all the elements to increase in the rooms as well. In other words, they tell us that Italy was the first, the second Greece and the third Spain on the average of the room price. All the evidence shows what we see is that, in fact, there has been an increase in luxury tourism, such as from the Middle East by 55%, where they are royal members, they are people who come and spend not just EUR 1,000 and EUR 2 000 on average, but they can also EUR 10,000 on average. So when there is not enough evidence from this methodology that has been presented, recorded and differentiated, that is where we need to see what is going on. But in 2017 somehow the revenues are converging. So our data and data appearing in 2017 are converging. For 2016, then, which was a strange year, let the experts find out why arrivals didn't collide with the revenues. Let's not say it, 'cause they might imply things. Let the European Commission, ELSTAT, the World Tourism Organisation, do this conference, do this team and see what happened. As far as the education you say is concerned, it is a higher education. I, as Ministry of Tourism, have the IEK, the ASTE, the EPAs you booked, the Tours School you booked, the OTEK that you booked. That's what I'm trying to fix. Indeed, I have told all parties to come with proposals, which has not happened. I'm finishing it. I'm open. Mr. Consola, I've told you this before, as I have told all the other parties. Come on, get your suggestions to discuss them. There will be an integrated plan. Let's agree. You haven't. As far as higher education is concerned, I am of course in favour of becoming a university of tourism. Let's sit down and see how it's going to happen. No, however, handmade and fragmented. The reason we met here is you didn't have a strategy. You forsake us that we take tourism to the autopilot. You know very well that tourism was on the autopilot and we first set up a strategy. That's the truth. That there was an increase, that's true. I was the first one to say that. I said whatever was good I found, I'm going to go on with it. They said to me, "But did you find it well?" And I said: 'After tourism was going well, yes, I did.' But I found a thousand more problems, a lot of pathogens that have to do with the legislative system, with thematic tourism, untapped capital. Not to mention them again. There was no marine tourism, no religious tourism, no healing. There were shortcomings. That's the truth. We heard about medical tourism. Yes, there was one, say, realm, but it has incredible shortcomings. If we're going to bring both of us roughly and fragmentally, it doesn't make any sense. So what we did was we packed up everything, closed holes, so professionals could work. Small things. We facilitated their everyday lives, tried no red tape, we made 'one stop shop'. We also invested a lot in bringing investments. That was dominating me, because I'm a productive ministry. I am very proud, in cooperation with the entire government, that we have brought to tourism all these incredible investments. We brought 80% of Greek investments. Only 20% are foreign investments. Now we're moving on for strangers. So this whole piece is very important and we want you to be close to us. So when we build these relationships, next year we'll go even better. This is where I want to say about the circumstances. Of course, we are favoured by the circumstances. We never said no. For example, this five month of 2017 was excellent because it coincided with the Catholic Easter with the Orthodox. Of course, it was an extremely pleasant juncture and we have two-digit numbers of arrivals and we will be over thirty million. I close with this, Mr President: Before you read just a part of the factors that said that rather with all these situations - because Turkey has problems, North Africa has problems and some routes have gone - we will probably have a 10% reduction in cruise ships. But they supplemented and said that because larger ships are coming, we are sure as it develops in the number of passengers on the cruise, we may also have an increase. So what do we care? We are interested in having an increase in tourists, and if we still do not have an increase, I would remind you that 2016 was a record year, we reached 3.3 million. So let's say "thank you" for this huge effort that we're making to keep balance when around us is burning the universe and keeping a stability and praying for everything to be going well, because you saw what is happening in Europe and when we're watching time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u391	Good, Minister. Mr. Kefaliannis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u392	Mr President, I will be brief. I won't use all three minutes of tritology. Madam Minister, what I told you before, perhaps you do not want to understand. We don't question arrival data. Of course, there is an increase in arrivals but revenues are, indeed, at least questionable as far as 2016 is concerned. You admitted it yourself. You left a suggestion that there are also purposes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u393	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u394	If I understood it correctly.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u395	No implying I didn't leave!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u396	What did you say?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u397	I said the World Tourism Organization, ELSTAT...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u398	I'm going to go around and look at it, but you're doing well and you're clarifying it...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u399	...SRSS saw there was a big discrepancy and they asked why. I said I'm not in charge of answering.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u400	Minister, because I followed you very carefully, you said...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u401	Madam Minister, let Mr. Kefaliannis finish and then place...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u402	Yeah, but I don't want to say things that are inaccurate.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u403	All right, all right, all right.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u404	Madam Minister, you may not understand it, but let's see it in the Minutes. You said in particular: there may also be some other thoughts on the divergence of revenue, which I cannot tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u405	What about me?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u406	Anyway, I might understand a mistake. I accept what you're telling me. Either way, it is a given difference in revenue. What's the reality, it's something you should see.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u407	We'll see exactly.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u408	But it is your responsibility as government - because at the moment the question is to the government as a whole and you happen and you respond - why we have this discrepancy. It may be revenue that is correct, but it may also be reduced. So that's something you should see. You said about growth, about investment that there were invitations, it was interesting. But I must inform you about this: Today, as Mr Haritsis has just tabled an amendment, which says that in the plans submitted, there are reductions of up to 25% to 50% on the natural object. Do you know what that means, Minister? That they are obviously not as pale as the government presents them. In order to allow, therefore, these submitted plans to reduce their natural object to up to 50%, you understand that the image on the market is not as good as you want to present it. It is today's amendment - I can give it to you, if you have not been aware - where the Minister himself admits that, obviously, the businessmen in the sector - and not just tourism, but because you have referred very well to 50% - have no longer been able to implement the plan that they have tabled. Either because there are capital controls or because of tax policy, things are not as good as the government wants to present them. He himself admits the Minister himself with the amendment he has tabled, this picture I have described to you. You can refer to it as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u409	Thank you very much, Mr. Kefaliannis. Here, Minister, you have the floor for your last placement and we close.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u410	I would like a minute, Mr President. Let's get it cleared up a little bit. I, as a ministry, have my own evidence. My figures, therefore, from the tour operators, from the World Tourism Organisation, from my offices abroad, from the HEIs, all the data we collected, did not have this discrepancy that was presented by the data showing a reduction. That's why we said to see it, to investigate it. So there have been meetings. I'm not in charge of answering. There are no intentions. There is a methodology, which obviously has a problem and that will appear.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u411	Who's going to answer, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u412	That team that was created. Am I going to answer that? I don't know about statistics.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u413	The Treasury will answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u414	I don't know, the team that was created I told you. I repeat that it is the European Commission, ELSTAT, the World Tourism Organization and the Bank of Greece. I won't answer that. I can certainly tell you that I have other evidence and that's why this divergence has made everyone feel. They're gonna answer, not me. But in 2017 there is no difference. The evidence I have is the same evidence that shows a great increase in revenue. So in 2013, in 2014, in 2015, we had no divergence. In 2017, we have no divergence. Only in 2016 was there a discrepancy. So let's see what happened. From there on, though...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u415	Answered, I think, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u416	That's right. From there on, however, in 2017, we should not be staying in the past. In 2017, we're going forward. So there is a great increase. This increase to rejoice and try, all together to keep it and in 2018 to achieve even greater growth. As far as my own investment is concerned - the rest of Mr Haritsis's investment is in development law, and I do not know what this amendment says, I have not seen it, I have not seen it, it is not this - I want to tell you that there is a great deal of place for investors, because they have seen that there are huge opportunities in Greece right now and that they are making use of them. That's what they do.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u417	Very good. Thank you very much. The debate on the number 23/8-5-2017 question on the immediate need for a new strategic planning for the development of the cruise is hereby closed. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minutes of Thursday 27 April 2017 and Friday 28 April 2017 have been distributed and the House is asking whether they have been ratified.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u418	The minutes of Thursday 27 April 2017 and Friday 28 April 2017 were therefore validated. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-26-S1-commons.u419	With the consent of the House, the sitting is closed for today, Tuesday 27 June 2017 at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of the House: legislative work, according to the agenda distributed.
