ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-28-S1-commons.u1	Good evening, everyone, welcome back. To say a good summer's remnant, since we still feel like we have, but also to prepare slowly for a new season that will be full of what we know. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICE: According to Parliament's approval from 4-8-2017, PXZ's minutes were confirmed by the Bureau at its meetings of Friday, 4 August 2017, with regard to the adoption of the draft law as a whole: ‘Electronic system for the disposal of television advertising time, amendment of Law 3548/2007, establishment of a regional and local press register, special marking of a written code in the publications, creation of an institutional framework to strengthen the production of audiovisual works in Greece and other provisions’.]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-28-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Ministries of Economics and Culture and Sport, as well as the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sport, submitted a draft law on 4-8-2017 entitled 'Agreements on the purchase of games'. It is referred to the competent Standing Committee and you will be informed of the programming.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-28-S1-commons.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS Today, a timely question will be discussed. At first there were four, but on the basis of a family issue - and wishing by hand - the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Juliarakis, cannot come and answer them. I shall read these questions, because as Mr Carras has been informed, he wants to take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-28-S1-commons.u4	Not now, Mr President, after the explanation you have given on a health issue, I do not think I should speak. I will simply ask for her debate to be redefined.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-28-S1-commons.u5	All right, Mr. Carras, it'll be redefined. I will start, if Mr Koukoutsis does not object, by reading all the time-consuming questions that will not be discussed due to obstacles, so that after all your time, together with the Minister, you can develop your own question. Due to the obstruction of Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Juliarakis, the first question under No 1293/21-8-2017 will not be discussed at the first time with regard to the financing of actions by criminal organizations against the Greek State and the allocation of funds for social purposes. The twelfth under number 1181/7-7-2017 topical question by MP II of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdos to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: “Application of measures in favour of small savers who lost their money with the “haircut” of the debt in 2012,” will not be discussed as a result of the impediment of the Deputy Minister of Finance Mr. Georgios Huliarakis. The first under number 5958/576/30-05-2017 question and application for the submission of documents by the Independent MEP 2, Georgios - Dimitrios Karras, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "They were or were sought alternatives to avoid a new reduction in pension expenditure by the latest Law 4472/2017?" will not be discussed as a result of the impediment of the Deputy Minister of Finance Mr. Georgios Huliarakis. The first question under number 1294/21-8-2017 of the New Democracy MP, Christos Boukos, on the full and effective use of the Panthesalian Stadium in Volos, will not be discussed due to the unsettled obligations of the Minister of Finance, Euklidis Tsakalotou. The second under No 1219/12-2017 topical question by the Member of Parliament of Parliament for the Democratic Independence of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Ioannis Koutsoukos to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: ‘The commitments to the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the prerequisites for the evaluation without informing Parliament, will not be discussed due to the unsuccessful obligations of the Minister of Finance, Mr. Euklidis Tsakalotou. The fifth under number 1119/3-7-2017 topical question from the Vice-President of the Parliament and MEP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Finance, concerning the theft of electricity, will not be discussed due to the unsettled obligations of the Minister of Finance Mr.Euklidis Tsakalotou. The sixth question under number 1032/16-6/2017 is currently under discussion by the Vice-President of the Parliament and Member of Parliament II Piraeus, of the Independent Greeks Mr Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Finance, concerning the bet companies, because of the unsettled obligations of the Minister of Finance Mr. Euclidis Tsakalotou. The seventh question under number 1026-17 of the Independent MEP Mr. Dimitrios Koukoutsis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Prospects and needs of the international airport Kalamata", will not be discussed due to the unsettled obligations of the Minister of Finance, Euklidis Tsakalotou. The tenth under number 931/2-6-2017 a topical question from Mr.Athens, Mr. Georgios Amyras, on the 'Siemens' case will not be discussed due to the unsuccessful obligations of the Minister of Finance, Mr. Euklidis Tsakalotos. Eleni Zaroulia to the Minister of Finance, on the appointment of judge in the administration of the Supreme Council, will not be discussed due to the unsuccessful obligations of the Minister of Finance, Eleni Zaroulia. The thirteenth question, with number 948/6-2017, on the Greek Vehicle Industry "EL.V.O.B.E.", will not be discussed due to the unsettled obligations of the Minister of Finance Mr.Euclidis Tsakalotos. The third, with number 1251/18-7-2017, is a topical question for F' Vice President of Parliament and MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. George Lambroulis to the Minister of Health, concerning the non-payment of employees of the company "SYKOS PM". & CIA E.C.' at Larissa University Hospital, will not be discussed due to the unsettled obligations of the Deputy Minister of Health Mr. Paul Polakis. The fourth question under number 1246/18-7-2017, the second question by MP Larissa of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Konstantinos Barriotas to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Absence of a control mechanism and evaluation of the need for EKAV's sea crossings and aerospaces, will not be discussed due to the misappropriated obligations of the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Pavlos Polakis. The eighth under number 976-6-2017 a topical question from the Plenipotentiary Halkidiki of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr.Save Vlachos to the Minister of Health, on the subject: “Halkidiki Prefecture Deficiencies are endangering the lives of citizens”, will not be discussed due to the unsuccessful obligations of the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Paul Polakis. The ninth under No 923/1-6-2017 topical question of the Second Collegiate of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Papapas to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Fulfilment of the Order of the Nation", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, we will now be discussing the second Question No 4557/28-03-2017 by the Independent MEP Mr. Dimitrios Koukoutsis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject of 'exceeding the number of legacy denominations'. The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr Catherine Papanatziou. Mr Koukoutsis, you have the floor for two minutes - always, of course, with tolerance - to develop your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-28-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. A typical example of the economic crisis is an increase in the number of legacies. For the sake of history alone, I would like to say that the renunciation of inheritance is the declaration of the will of the heir to whom the inheritance has been inflicted, that he does not want to become a final heir and therefore does not accept the legacy that has been inflicted on him. The renunciation of the legacy has specific deadlines and is made to the secretary of the court in the region of which the inherited person was resident at the time of his death. Heritage deprivation cannot be partial and, finally, according to official statistics, we are talking about a new situation, an unprecedented situation in our country, having to do with an ever-growing wave of citizens, who are rushing to prosecute - let me say - above it property and property, because it cannot meet the obligations of that property or property. At the moment, whole assets are lost in our country, which are highly costly. According to official figures, the Ministry of Justice, in 2013, the inheritance apologies were around nine thousand two hundred, in 2015 they reached forty-five thousand six hundred twenty-seven, while with data from the first quarter of this year, the competent judicial authorities estimate that for this year they will triple, on the basis of applications submitted in the first quarter of 2017. The causes of the rapid increase in legacy deportations are nothing else, despite increasing debts, always compared to the recent past, which the deaths leave when they deviate, mainly in taxes, insurance funds and banks. Another important factor is the unbearable taxation of immovable property, with all kinds of taxes and raisins. In addition, there is the difficulty with regard to their maintenance and sale. I, Minister, have the following information to tell you: In June 2017, to a question by SYRIZA MPs, the Minister was asked if he intends to take the necessary steps to simplify and rationalise the existing legislative framework, such as limiting the classes, which are called on the unattainable succession in cases where the property passes beyond the assets, is accepted under specific conditions, the delayed request for the decommissioning in cases of incurable inheritances for the fullest legislative protection of the heirs. I will not ask you whether you intend to normalise the existing legislative framework, but how you intend to overthrow this situation, the unacceptable situation, created by all these extermination taxes, with the result of urgency - and not because the citizens want it - of losing inherited assets. I would also like you to inform us what this number is, according to the official figures, of the real estate which has so far come to the public, after being left by the heirs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-28-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr. Koukoutsi. Madam Minister, you have the floor for three minutes to begin with.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-28-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, without wanting to question data on the number of avenues in the years 2016 and 2017, the Ministry of Justice is responsible, which is likely to have official data from the courts. We, as a Treasury, have no such evidence. With regard to the grounds for renouncement, I would like to say that these are many different and definitely dependent on the type of inheritance, from the degree of family of the heirs to the inherited person, from any burden, that is to say the debts of the inherited person to banks, insurance funds, private individuals, public authorities, any existing mortgages, seizures, claims, in relation to possible property identification actions in the name of the inherited person, and more generally, deterrent to the acceptance of the inheritance. I will not deny that in recent years, during the years of the crisis, Greek citizens have been taxed and their incomes decreased directly or indirectly. But our Government is making every effort to implement the most rational and socially just fiscal and tax policy. I will stress once again that the law of HNPH, to which you have referred, was passed in 2013. Our country, as part of the budgetary policy, has committed itself to a specific amount of receipts from this tax. This defines the framework within which we can move towards the exercise of our social policy. Nevertheless, efforts have been made to reduce tax burdens by HNVY, since according to official data already published for the year 2016 and in 2017, 38.5% of natural persons were asked to pay less HNVY than 2015, especially in areas with low real estate values. 26% of natural persons were asked to pay the same HNPH as in 2015 for 2016 and 2017. 25% has been asked to pay more ENVY since 2015 by 10 euros. Whereas the differences, plus EUR 10, as zeros - because the maximum percentage is due to a change of old age or decade, to rights with careless or fine ownership - we find that around 90% of natural persons were taxed in 2016 and in 2017, they were reduced or remained stable compared to 2015. In addition, let us not forget that with recent Law 4472/2017, in our efforts to strengthen the weakest finances, we have predicted that when the total amount of HNVO does not exceed EUR 700, a 30% tax reduction is granted, which cannot exceed EUR 70. In fact, when beneficiaries are citizens, who enjoy reductions or discounts, such as economically weak, multiples and disabled 80 % or more, the EUR 700 threshold is doubled. Of course, here I must stress that the measure starts from 1 January 2020. In addition, POL 1009/2016 of the Deputy Minister of Finance was retroactively adjusted from 21 May 2015 to the prices of zone and commercialisation for the purpose of determining the taxable value of the in-project city or property that is transferred with a probable cause or cause of death or donation or parental benefit, resulting in the reduction of the objective values and the reduction of the applicable taxes. The rest I'm going to mention in my dentistry, so I don't abuse my time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-28-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Koukoutsi, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-28-S1-commons.u10	Madam Minister, I would not like to make cheap opposition and have such a rhetoric. Let us not forget that you requested the vote of the Greek people, saying that you will abolish HISPHIA. I'm not going there. I'm going somewhere else. When you speak today - as a ministry, not personally - to the Greek people and tell him that we will "feel" HNPH, or that we will "feel" some measures or when you talk about relief efforts, you remind me of that old joke - let me, with all due respect - where the carnivor said that they would have better conditions of slaughter. That's what things look like. From there on, you should know that already in the courts of Athens and other cities - because there are other problems that come to the surface after these massive non-inherited gains - they have shown themselves questions from co-owners in apartments or in houses where there are property abandoned due to renouncement. It's normal for these real estates without owners to be devastated. This means that neighbouring property and, more generally, entire areas are downgraded. A large proportion, too, of those who denounce the inheritances do so because the property it possesses is probably not of any economic interest. There's this hypothesis too. Many citizens, however, have the impression that the properties that one is renounced are going directly to the public. You know and know the whole world probably - many may not know it - that the public inherits the sixth in turn when there is no relative to accept the legacy. In addition, there is concern about the fate of the deported property that arrives in the public domain. You know, there is no mechanism which will immediately inform public services in the event of dismissal. Many times citizens are forced and appeal to banks themselves - just to say it - to warn, to make known that 'we do not accept the debts'. There's no mechanism. The decommissioning scheme in force, i.e. the time-limits provided for, the grounds for invalidity and so on, is indeed strict and has the effect that heirs will not know either their rights or their obligations. Now, of course, you're going to tell me that the Treasury has no direct bearing on all this. But the consequences are great. The question is: does the Treasury currently have any specific proposals, apart from the relief of the ENPIA that you are telling us? And I take this opportunity to ask you, although there has been too much discussion. ENVIRONMENT after all - and I am speaking simply because this is how we should be addressing the Greek people - is a permanent measure now, we cannot say that it is an opportunityal measure. In the middle of the crisis, some measures which are unbearable to the Greek people will probably be permanent from now on. So I would like you to say, if there is this possibility, by addressing the Greek people today as State Secretary, what is there in the Ministry of Finance's mind regarding real estate. It is something that burns the average Greek today. Because you know that we are a people where the previous generation - I am now in my fifty-two years - our parents, because of the lack of roof, because of poverty, because of the Civil War, because of all these wars that have arisen in our country, had nothing else in mind than to leave to their children a flat, a little house, a small or larger real estate. What will come of it? There is a big problem and it is of interest to the entire Greek people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-28-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr. Koukoutsi. Madam Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-28-S1-commons.u12	In particular, regarding the inheritance tax with the last amendments to the provisions of the Code on Heritage, Donation and Parental Benefits, not only increased the corresponding tax, but abolished the autonomous property tax at a rate of 1% which was in force regardless of value and favoured the great property and the institution of the progressivity of the inheritance tax, donations and parental benefits, with the introduction of scales of calculation of this tax, so that the calculation of the tax is more favourable to the relatives of the first category, direct family, i.e. children, grandchildren, parents and grandparents, grandparents and grandparents, and higher for the most distant relatives. As you said before, we don't know which relatives the inheritance releases are. I would like to mention one example here. The tax-free threshold has been increased from EUR 95 000 to EUR 15 000 for the first category, with a rate of taxation of 1% to a maximum of 10%. Also, if the heir is the husband or minor children, the property inherited from them remains tax-free up to EUR 400,000 per beneficiary. However, I should like to stress, as you just said, that precisely because the public comes to the order of succession, until there is a large number of real estate, perhaps a number of dozens of successive denunciations, which depend on the number of heirs called. However, the Ministry of Finance monitors the effectiveness of the tax policy pursued and assesses the impact of the tax measures taken. In this context we are looking at all possibilities for alleviating citizens always, but under the strict budgetary constraints of our country. Here I would like to point out that we are committed - and it has already started in our Ministry - to adjust the objective values of real estate with commercial values. Already in the calculation of the 2017 ENVY, one of the areas - which had already become the committee and brought us the result - has been calculated at a lower price of objective value. By the end of the year we believe that the committees will have completed the work on all properties, so that we also have new objective values, for a fairer system for the calculation of the ENPIA. There, which is lower the values to have something lower, and where there really is higher values - because we have seen that there is that - we have correspondingly higher ENPIs.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-28-S1-commons.u13	Madam Minister, are you referring to the Mind?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-28-S1-commons.u14	No, it is the New Buja region that was calculated this year with other objective values. It's one of the four areas that the S.E. Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and for the excellent work he has put into it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-28-S1-commons.u15	We thank both the colleague and the Minister for the debate on the topical and urgent question. That concludes the debate on topical and urgent questions. I would like to inform you that there is a letter from the Secretary-General of the Government, Mrs Kaloger, on all the obstacles that have been declared by the ministers. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-28-S1-commons.u16	With the consent of the House at 18.37 minutes the sitting on Thursday 31 August 2017 at 9.30 p.m., on the subject of the House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
