ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's 18-10-2017 authorisation, the Minutes of the IB Bureau, of Wednesday 18 October 2017, with regard to the vote on the whole draft law: ‘Control and protection of the structured environment and other provisions’.]] I have the honour to inform the House of the current Questions Release on Friday 20 October 2017. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the House) 1. Under No 9217-10-2017, a topical question by the Member of Parliament, Mr Jasona Fotella, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: 'Will there finally be a solution to the issue of 'AMIADIT'? 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No 74/12-10-2017 of the Greek Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdos to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on "The development of the business of the immovable ship in the port of Paleochora Chania". 3. The question by number 87/16-10-2017 of the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament and of the Athens Parliament, Mr Spyridon Lykoudi, to the Minister for Migration Policy, on 'Increasing refugee flows'. 4. The Question No 43/9-10-2017 by MP Evia of the New Democracy Mr Simos Kedicoglou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the subject: ‘Speech for the selection of the President and CEO of the public limited company ‘Organisation of Ports of Prefecture of Evia’. 5. The Question No 33/6-10-2017 by the Vice-President of Parliament and Member of the Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, on the subject: "Without ELTA Patmos, due to the extermination of the unique official". 6. The Question No 9/2-10-2017 by MP Halkidiki of the New Democracy Mr. Georgios Vagionas to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: "The threat of a bandage for thousands of bakerys". Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS We begin with our fourth question with number 97/17-10-2017, on the subject: "To reinstate the arbitrary sanitary cleaners in the Municipality of Zitsa in the Prefecture of Ioannina". Mr Panagiotis Skourletis will answer the timely question. Mr. Moraite, you have the floor for two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, the JRC is once again bringing a serious issue which employs workers. We are talking about that the municipal authority of the Municipality of Zitsa through the primary and secondary school committee instead of moving forward and renewing the contracts of the fifteen school cleaners who have been working and serving the needs of the schools of the area with salaries - "false" and almost non-existent labour rights, has made their dismissal, proclaiming a "photography", so-called a competition, with the sole aim of excluding the already for years contracted cleaners. It is characteristic that the bogus competition established by the municipality includes unacceptable conditions, conditions which are not mentioned in any institutional framework and which go as question whether and how the supervisory authority and, in this case, the decentralised administration approved or intervened in such arbitrary practices. There is also the communication from the school committees, which raises unacceptable issues. For example, it says that cleaners must have a clearing note. And we ask: are clean women of shipowners and industrialists going with 300 euros? Women of the people's families are on their way. However, the worst of all, Minister, is that he speaks of an unemployment certificate. So, what's the city authority doing with that? It wants to exclude existing cleaners who work even with these hunger wages, since they cannot produce an unemployment card. Of course, this is the regular management of extreme poverty, which is your fair development, as you say, that breaks labour rights and creates work jungle. Our question, Minister, is what measures will you take to reinstate the arbitrary school cleaners of the Municipality of Zitsa, to stop the municipal authority's actions leading to the dismissal of these fifteen cleaners, but also - most importantly - of the strife that has begun with unemployed women in the region. We are also putting the question of adequate funding, at last, for the operation and final solution of the problem of cleanliness in schools, firstly with the permanentisation of contractual cleaners in schools with full wage and insurance rights.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, for three minutes you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Moraitis, I think that every time we are discussing this House, we should discuss these specific issues not only on the basis of good intentions and declarations, but also on the basis of the specific circumstances. I say this because you are obviously aware, but I would like to repeat, on the basis of your question, that this year, after many years, there has been a concrete initiative by the Government and especially the Ministry of the Interior, since it has a co-responsibility with the Ministry of Education for School Cleansing and we have managed to achieve this by 10% the increase in their salaries, through the incorporation into the system of payments and public schools, which were not there. I mean, corridors and toilets were cleaned and not paid. I mention this because it is very important and the trade unions themselves, the workers themselves, whom I have seen many times, not only in my Athens office, but also in the trips I have made to the region. It is therefore important when we approach an issue of approaching the whole picture. From there on, there has been a distorted regime since 1990, that of project contracts for this sector. They are 10 months of work contracts for each school year, not generally renewed contracts, eight months or anything. It is about Law 1892/1990. It is a distorted regime because it should be treated differently. But different ways of dealing with you are in 1990 and 2000 and different possibilities for anyone who lives in this country in 2016 and 2017. That is why I mentioned before, given the current circumstances, given the fact of the bans and the specific restriction on the recruitment scheme in force, what initiative we have taken to improve these conditions. In the majority of the municipalities in the country you know that over and above all the workers, who are mainly women, are working next year and this is on the initiative of the relevant mayors. I'd invite the mayor to do what everyone else does. You know that there has been an appeal to the decentralised administration of workers who have been excluded from the possibility of taking part in this tender, which will judge the legality of this appeal, a decision that we are waiting for. Of course, on the other hand, to be fair, in such a situation, with a distorted system, with high unemployment rates, it is difficult to put the blame on anyone who is the mayor or anyone else. Nevertheless, I think that the example and practice of the other municipalities in the country should be followed in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr Moraite, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u6	Minister, you have not answered this question. The policy of all governments over time, most of the time, with municipalities and regions, is breaking rights to permanent and stable work, with full insurance rights, as we have said. These policies become more barbaric and take particular place in the area of cleanliness in municipalities, hospitals, schools, and often with fatal accidents or injuries than intensification of work. Many times workers - the workers here - are throwing them into the trash can, in unemployment. Such a case is the one we spoke about with the cleaners in the schools of the Municipality of Zitsa, which were found from one day to the next in unemployment. And most importantly, Minister, these cleaners have been working for ten years and most of them have been on the limit of retirement. And instead of there being protection, as they gave the battle for the last badges, we threw them on the street. That is why it is also justified, as is the indignation of the cleaners in the area. And we are talking about hunger wages of EUR 200 and 300, under medieval conditions, without permits, even without sick leave in this area, Minister. The cleaners you have made them hunger contractors, impoverishment with your own policy over the last few years, because you have been demanding to work with this regime over the next period. And the worst of all is that most of the time, as we refer to the question, they are faced with scenes of anthropophage, "Your death my life." Such a scene has also been set up by the municipal authority in the Municipality of Zitsas, making use of the existing reactionary institutional framework maintained in a government, this working jungle that prevails, as I mentioned, especially in these workplaces - and not only - but also in other places in Epirus. In this direction, there is also this decision that we mentioned by the Municipality of Zitsas, which legalises this working medium-term. The issue of cleanliness, Minister, in particular in schools is very important. It is a matter of health for children themselves, for teachers, for those involved in the field of schools. Of course, instead of doing what you said you had to do, the municipal authorities must also have an institutional framework - they are usually resorting to all these replacements. And we say that particularly in this area there is a hunger, because they are really stepping on the problems of your policy, of unemployment, of poverty, of impoverishment and trying to solve this issue through the promises that some are supposed to be able to find jobs. In other words, they take the bite from the poor worker, supposedly to fill the unemployed. That's your policy. We say that these decisions open wide open the door to the dismissal of thousands of workers and, at the same time, aim - and this is the most important one - to drive these services to a complete deadlock, to a failure of operation. According to legislation, mayors can privatise these services on the pretext of lack of staff. That's the most important thing. And the result will be that these services will be made - and they are already becoming - vague in the hands of large business groups. Today there is a case - and there has been a case - of the class movement itself, which is fighting for no dismissal. The class movement in the Prefecture of Ioannina and especially in the Municipality of Zitsas is struggling to transform these contracts of all employees into an indefinite period for permanent fixed work with full rights. In this direction we call on the workers to fight, because it is also apparent from your reply and obviously also from your dentistry that they will stay on the path of unemployment. As I said, the most important thing is that in many of them there are a few badges missing.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, my colleague. Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u8	I think, Mr Moraite, that I answered, but you did not want to understand the content of my statement. First of all, there are no large business groups in schools. This may apply in other cases, but it is inappropriate. We're either talking about this or we're making a general position. Please be specific. I repeat that this distorted - and first of all I called it'reverse' - status of project contractors has existed since the 1990s and you know very well that if there was a chance to change, today it is very difficult, at least for the foreseeable future. And I expect you to recognise the current government's effort within this difficult financial framework to increase pay by 10%. That's why you're not saying anything. Workers, however, who are really full of thick words, but want to see certain things, they say so. There is a practice - I repeat - followed by a majority of the mayors take the same people. He's at their discretion. From that point on, imposing this Ministry on the characteristics and the manner in which self-government is run cannot do so. Change the frame? Of course, but obviously not for the foreseeable future, since we have been under this regime of budgetary restrictions and obligations. And you know it very well. It is a very long debate, we have done it too many times in this Chamber, but it is important - not to say it, it is your right to say your assessments, everyone listens to and draws their conclusions - that we can be more specific, to be more beneficial to the workers themselves in the end. Obviously, it is a regime that is distorted, that is, workers who actually meet standing and constant needs, but tell me how, beyond a position that does not actually go through, all contracts can be converted into permanent ones. You say that in other areas. You can't do that, you know that. Even if we were to vote here and come to the JRC and vote for the first time - or a few times - together with the government you know that this law would be swallowed as an anti-constitutional.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u9	Who would he swallow from?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u10	So what are we? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, It is important, if you will, that you come to create the conditions to take solid steps, rather than generally make a struggling of promises and majestics, which I repeat in the present circumstances and for the visible future cannot change. That's the reality. The government's sensitivity to the issue of contractors, you know it. Where we could, we gave another sample of writing, in the field of cleanliness, to the payroll centre. In the next few days, the competition will come out in the light of publicity. This was done at the expense of and against those who want to deliver cleanliness to private companies. I would therefore ask that your position be more politically balanced next time so that it can also be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you of the procedure. The questions that will be answered today are twelve. Eleven left. I would ask you to be consistent in your time, to finish in a reasonable time in the next three hours. Before we proceed to the debate on the next question, I would like to say the questions that will not be discussed. The fourth question under number 82-16-10-2017, the first question of the President of the DEB on Greek territory, will not be discussed as a result of the impediment of the Minister responsible, Mr. Amanatidis, who is abroad. The third, with number 76/13-10-2017, topical question by the MP of the Democratic Compact PASOK - DIMAR Mr.MAR.Michael Jeleli to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport on the subject: "The creation of three new toll stations on the Promahona road line - Serres - the port of Thessaloniki is disastrous for the Prefecture of Serres". The fifth question under number 72/11-10-2017, the first question of the Athens Parliamentary II of the Communist Party of Greece, Christos Katsotis, to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Recognition of the profession of firefighters as heavy, unhealthy and dangerous and protection measures during the incidents", will not be discussed due to lack of competence. The relevant Ministry is the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that there is also a letter from the Secretary-General of the Government about these obstacles.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u12	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u13	Mr Kattotis, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u14	We were amazed to hear that the Ministry of the Interior states that the question we have tabled, the recognition of the profession of firefighters as heavy - unhealthy and dangerous and that protection measures should be taken during the incidents. If it is not the responsibility of the Ministry of Interior and Citizen Protection, to which the Fire Corps is subject, whose department is it? With a surprise, in fact, we heard something like this yesterday that we were notified by Parliament's services. Because the Deputy Minister for the Interior is here, the responsible Minister is here, we would ask him to take the floor to tell us whether or not he is really competent. Let's not go crazy already! Workers' ball? Previously, Mr Skourletis said to us 'it is not our issue, it is the mayors', and now we are told 'it is not our issue, it is the Ministry of Labour'. That is, the workers from here and there! Get your responsibilities!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Toskas, Deputy Minister of the Interior, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u16	There is no need to create impressions. This question has never come to me and that is why I am not answering it at this time, otherwise I would be happy to answer it. It is a question, of course, of which I must work with the Ministry of Labour, but I would have no objection. I was surprised myself this morning. It could be my staff's fault. I don't know who made the mistake. On the first chance I'd be happy to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr. Minister. So we move on to the third debate under number 85/16-10-2017 on the first-round question from the First Vice-President of the Parliament and Member of the Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of the Interior on the subject: "The administration of the Rhodes Police due to the immobilisation of the patrols". The current question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for the Interior, Mr. Toskas. Mr President, you have the floor for two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u18	Mr President, Mr Minister, I honestly assure you that I would not have asked this question, if it were only of local interest, and if the media did not have a national dimension in this matter. That is, on Sunday by a large station for hours, this news has been reproduced all the time, which is not just the image of the government but the image of the state in general. Because when the citizen hears that the state cannot mobilise the vehicles of the police or the military, if you want, because he cannot pay the relevant credit, the cost to buy gasoline, then the citizen feels, as you can see, too badly, not to use another word. I replicate what the citizen has heard, namely that the non-payment of fuel debts has brought the Rhodes Police deadlock, as its 12 patrols have basically been withdrawn from circulation. The non-payment of any part of the debt, which exceeds EUR 60,000, has caused a loss of credit and therefore a suspension of patrols, as the press reports state. To compensate for this serious malfunction, the Rhodes Police keeps a patrol car in the traffic with fuel supplied by the Army and even uses their own vehicles, and information is published on a case-by-case basis that police officers themselves have paid the gasoline of the patrol cars. Even though I think there's some kind of exaggeration, because on the news there's always an excess, the whole thing is serious. I know that Minister Toskas has certainly made every effort to avoid these issues, but this is a fact. I would ask the Minister to ensure that the matter is closed, that tomorrow there is no such matter, if possible, to stop the noise involved.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, my colleague. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u20	Mr President, Mr Kremastine, the Greek police have about 12 and a half thousand cars and motorcycles of various types and you know that there may be times and problems, but in general the issue of fuels is dealt with in some cases where there may be delays. One such case is the case of Rhodes, where the following happened. As you have rightly said, the police's oil-driven vehicles are powered by the Army and there's no problem there. So the gasoline engines of Rhodes take gasoline from a gasoline vendor, who had on the basis of a tendering procedure the obligation to supply fuel by the end of September. Since July, in time, a new competition was opened which has not been successful, because no candidates had to meet the conditions, i.e. have tax information, insurance and other supporting documents. They didn't have a problem with the competition, and that's why there was a problem for a few days in combination with some owed ones that always exist in all these dealings with this gas seller. Already from the 60,000 yesterday when the Greek Police owed this gas seller 20,000 and by tomorrow, after an increase in the fixed deposit of the Rhodes Police Directorate, the rest of the money will have been provided. There will therefore be no problem with this procedure. There was no operational problem. It was covered with diesel vehicles as well as with other vehicles, because there were some gasoline. They didn't give money to cops in their pockets, as some say. We know the excesses of a particular media that reproduces little problems. So the problem, in essence, will be solved by tomorrow. Afterwards, as the audit procedures continue for the costs of the Greek Police, I believe that there will be no problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Here, Mr President, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u22	I'm glad the Minister said the problem would be solved by tomorrow. That is what I basically hold, because that was the meaning of my question. However, I would like to point out again that when, for example, as I myself informed the Minister before, the President of the South Aegean Officers send me e-mail and tells me 'do what you can about this', then it is not a personal matter, my own or even the Minister, but it is a matter of the state. In other words, given that these are published in the press, what will the citizen say when he sees, for example, a letter from the President of the South Aegean officers to claim what we are talking about at the moment? It is a problem, in other words, Minister, that you have to deal with it differently. I mean that these people should be invited to speak, to be disembodied, to understand that the image given to the police with all this is negative, without your fault personally, because I do not think there is a Minister who says 'I don't care if I have no money to pay for the vehicles'. So there's a malfunction. This malfunction has to be dealt with in some way.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u23	We thank the President and the economy in time. Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u24	Mr. Kremastine, as I said before, in the twelve thousand and five hundred motorcycles that the Greek police have, I think, it makes sense to have various minor problems at times. Now, from there on, trade union pursuits and excesses are expected and it makes sense to exist. However, any policemen, beyond the projections of their demands, should know that they have hierarchy and their hierarchy is dealing with problems in the most satisfactory way. Of course, when they are not treated, the political leadership that finds solutions comes. In this particular case, we had a few days' problem. The policing of the island was not affected operationally and the whole operation was not affected. It was a small problem, for which a solution has already been found and the situation has been restored. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u26	Mr President, we all hold the positive view that tomorrow there will be no problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u27	Yes, Mr. Cream.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u28	Okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u29	I think it was clear from the reply of the Minister and from you. Thank you both very much for the economy in time. To release Mr Toska and thank Mr Skourletis for allowing this question to enter into his own questions in the intervening period. We continue with the eighth question under number 98/17-10-2017, topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister of the Interior, concerning immediate compensation measures for flood victims and compensation for damages in Samothraki. Here, Mr. Colleague, you have two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u30	Thank you. Our question concerns the island of Samothrace. One would expect that, almost a month after the big watermelon on the island, it would not be timely. Unfortunately, however, it is still timely, because very simply on the island has not become what should have happened so far. It was a storm that came to confirm, of course, how necessary anti-military protection is and, in general, protection against natural phenomena, which are repeated periodically and, of course, to highlight all the criminal responsibilities of all governments, not the current one, in the area of infrastructure conservation. The disasters, therefore, from the storm of Samothrace on 25 September literally broke the island. Tens of houses and shops have been flooded. Some of these houses have stagnation problems and cannot be inhabited. The town hall is flooded. His services are looking for other spaces to be housed and operated. In kindergarten there are damages. The health centre of the island has basically been decommissioned. Its ground floor has been completely destroyed after flooding with the radiological, microbiological, drug storage, short hospital, emergency department. As far as the road network of the island is concerned, I would like to say that on the main road network it is difficult to find a bridge that remains in place. They're almost all demolished. While the rural network is quite simply no longer there. There is also a problem with the water supply of the island, since the unregulated system of hydromagnification, on which it was based, has been destroyed. Eggs have been drowned, stable facilities have been levelled, thousands of olive trees have been destroyed. What should have happened by now. First - it should have been fully recorded in all the damages first. Follow the compensation of all those affected to 100% of their damage. To decide to exempt these taxes, carpets and municipal fees. To freeze their debts, confiscation procedures. To be granted interest-free loans. Of course, above all, we must finally start implementing the necessary infrastructure on the island of Samothrace. That is all we are waiting for your answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, my colleague. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Mr President. Just at the beginning of the week, on Monday, I was able to meet the mayor of the island, Mr. Vitsa, and to review all the things that have already been done. And I inform you that most of the things you mentioned have gone ahead. It's been recorded. At the moment, indeed, by the respective North Aegean Sesmoplastic Rehabilitation Service have visited and recorded hundreds of buildings, of which sixty-seven are currently damaged and require restoration. There have been the decisions, the decisions to which you referred, which provide for an extension of payment of payments and tax obligations, arrangements, etc. From the Ministry of Interior in the last year and a half, money has been given for the restoration of the theories. In particular, for the last theorem of 25 September, the total amount of EUR 245,000 has been allocated, of which EUR 150,000 was granted just a few weeks ago for this natural disaster. From that point on, the next day on the theorem was the declaration of an emergency status by the General Secretariat of Culture, which facilitates the direct assignment of works and enables the island to recruit temporary staff in two months, in the first phase of up to eight months, precisely so that there can be what you said: addressing certain situations, recording of losses. The Ministry of Health has moved immediately and now operates the regional office in Kamariotissa, with the aim of restoring the health centre, as you said, which has suffered great damage so that life can return to normality. The Ministry of Culture has made a record of the damage that has been suffered from ancient times. While a similar committee controls the newer monuments. In particular, the Ministry of Infrastructure has advanced a study, a master plan for the anti-military protection of Samothrace, which had not been carried out for decades. Because we are all aware, yes, it was a great deal of rain, but the rest of the projects that had been done were fragmentary a few and incomplete. This has proved the facts. Today, therefore, an overall approach has been made, while for the road network an amount of 3m euros has been approved again by the Ministry of Infrastructure, so that with the assistance of the company "ENGINATIC LEVEL" it will start to reconstruct. I think the state's response to this emergency situation, as to the rest we had this year, was more than ever immediate.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Here, Mr. Delis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u34	Thank you. I think, Minister, that your position contained several contradictions, since you have also indirectly admitted that, although some things have gone ahead but they have not been completed and could not be completed, Mr Minister, once the municipality of Samothrace has been able to respond to such a great and complex task of recording damage. What was needed and has not been done so far is that there has not been a state interministerial step by services, which take care of the analytical record, so that we can move on to immediate restoration and compensation, but there has been a municipality of helplessness, alone with the few employees it has, to be able to meet these needs and of course I do not think that the amount of EUR 100,000 for which you have spoken could...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u35	It's 150,000 euros.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u36	Up to 150,000 euros...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u37	The budget is EUR 3 million.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u38	...to provide a solution for disasters - because they participated in the pavilion of the KKE, which we visited on the island - which are in many cases biblical if you see the condition of the island today. In any case these disasters, of course, are not present in Samothraki. They repeat every little bit and a little bit. These are natural phenomena and are often repeated, and the same catastrophes, since there is no water drainage network in the settlements or in the road network, it is the morphology of the island, and we have this paradoxical and tragic: the island with many waters, the island with the depths, the island with the waterfalls - it really is impressive for the natural environment of the island - to have a problem of water supply and even irrigation. And that, of course, bears witness to the lack of infrastructure. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] I think that it is not enough, Minister, to say your words of comfort. As for the regional medical office you have spoken about, you know the health centre as I have said in my prototype, it is actually out of service. The regional hospital, which we have also visited, cannot meet the needs of the two and a half thousand inhabitants of the island. A mobile healthcare unit should be sent immediately, covering the immediate, urgent needs of the island. We have seen with our own eyes the area of the regional medicine, which is indeed good for one, two, three cases, but cannot cover all needs. Of course, it is necessary to mobilise the state mechanism, as I have said, since the damages are beyond the municipality's capabilities. About the compensation now, judging by how to "walk" and how to implement the PSEAs or the damages of the constructions, which not only delay but also when given, are crumbs, then we can understand the next day for this island. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I repeat - and I close - that it is now a vital matter not only for Samothraki but for the whole country, in particular, but for Samothraki which has these very serious problems, the implementation of the necessary and necessary infrastructure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Mr. Delis. Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u40	I am pleased, Mr President, that you have confirmed, in your speech, that too many steps have been taken. We have not said that the whole damage recovery plan has been completed. This could not be done. That is what we are all agreed on, but everything you have said, namely that the committees have gone. You spoke of governmental steps. But within hours there was a government delegation over there. Please ask the mayor, look at his last announcement yesterday, to see exactly how he recognizes this immediate response from the government. The most important thing, however, which should concern us - to which you and I referred a moment ago - is the total lack of overall planning which does not appear as a phenomenon, as a reality only in Samothraki, but which exists in the country as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u41	You know that anti-milling is not eligible by the European Union.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u42	Anti-mills didn't come up in 2017. There should have been tens of years since the last century, and they have been distorted. You know very well that it was the occasion for these public works, for people to eat from here and there, which has stopped in our day and everyone knows that. At least these few we have, they get a place. I would like to ask you again, when I say to you that at the moment a study has been launched for a global master plan of anti-military protection, does it need to be welcomed on your part yes or no, and at the same time to point out that it has not been carried out not only in Samothraki for decades but also in various other areas? To say things with their name, as the overall picture is. That's right. From there there there is another subject that the mayor raised to me. There is currently a problem with the free grazing that exists there, an overpopulation of sheep and goats, which have created a clear ground now, which in the given extreme rainfall conditions creates further problems. I am referring to this because it is not a problem in Samothraki alone. All this has to be seen in a systematic way. This must also contribute local society and local society is not only the mayor, it is the individual resident. If you see where the city hall was built - and you've seen it, because you said you went - you'll understand why he suffered so much damage and whether it should be in that particular, possibly, place. But these were not indifferent, they were out of practice so far. It's important at some point to be the beginning. I forgot to tell you before that also the crew from ELGA have gone to record the damages, the damages suffered and the animal and vegetable capital, and by 22 October I have been informed that the damage to each one, which is to receive the corresponding compensation, will now be individualised. So I think that what needs to be done will be done. I wish - I will not stop saying that - that we had the possibility of at least the means and the resources, that we could do much more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Minister, we can release you. We continue with the fifth under the number 80/16-10-2017 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Nikolaos Igoumenides to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: "Retroactive contributions of journalists with parallel employment". The timely question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Labour, Mr Anastasios Petropoulos. Come on, Mr. Colleague, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Mr President. I honestly wonder if the title of the question should be'retrospective contributions of journalists' or 'points and monsters of the past'. I believe in the very brief debate that will follow, that my reflection will be understood. Mr Minister, allow me first of all to comment, which I am sure you will agree. In a period of intense reclassification in the media sector, workers in the media should not only be the weak link, the last wheel of the car, but rather, in my opinion, the free-motor locomotive without barriers. We therefore have a direct obligation to do all that is necessary in the direction of relief from the sufferings of the past. The second one, as you will agree and I imagine you know better than all of us, is that the new law on insurance brings to the surface and highlights a number of the pathogens and ruthless distortions of the past. In this context, more and more workers in the media sector are in debt. They have been journalists practising the profession since 1993, employees enrolled in the CSEFAT, following FTPs - SMEs and the EDEAPs maintaining a parallel service document to be paid for secondary financial work. You see, Mr President, almost all the media, it was unwilling even during the 'fucking cows' period to employ as wage-earning journalists who were already on a payroll. In addition, I would say that it was confirmed that the TEBE OSH had nothing to do with wage journalists even if they had a block, except those who might want it either to receive a second pension or who had been involved with TEBE and OSH for some reason. Minister, because we cannot allow them to be claimed in 2017 by reporters for insurance with a delay of decades, even counting as due contributions on the insurance scale that the debtors would have been, if they had joined the TEBE at the time when they opened a block, the question is when and how will the relevant Ministry make to remove the above distortions, which they are putting against the employees of the media. I reserve my remarks on other specific cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, my colleague. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Mr President. The right title is "points and monsters of the past", Mr Igoumenides. The strange thing is that even in last year's detailed debate in the Committee on Insurance, the New Democracy insisted that it does not understand what was in the past and what new possibilities are being created with the single social security institution, as this is a case - and it is not the only case - where journalists are overdebted. Because public administration and social security operate on the basis of the principle of legality, it is logical that the officials who are called upon to see the debts, which have been accumulated from the past, should call on the debtors to fulfil their obligations to repay these debts, but these are not symptoms that have now been created. They're symptoms of an old condition. They are the many 'hidden skeletons in the wardrobes' of each social security institution, who are now emerging in this way, and we now have to deal with it in a different way. I have said that every phenomenon of an old practice and misrepresentation in the polynomialism that has distinguished social security must be dealt with today, based on the rules that we have introduced and which are beginning to function slowly - slowly in full. We need to deal with these issues in order to harmonise the practice of dealing with them on the basis of what is currently happening. As for the subject you mentioned with the journalists, they weren't just hired journalists. There were journalists with blocks. Foreign-type correspondents had a block, but they were insured at the EFF - SMEs. He wasn't at the OAU. So these journalists who had a block, who were not a foreign press correspondent, should also be treated in this uniform way. But legally, according to the legislator's paradox, they naturally had to pay contributions that they did not pay and are now being called upon to pay all these increases and fines. You can be sure that we will deal with this. I have given an order, that there should not be any prosecuting measures against these unnecessarily insured persons, and we must, of course, legislate to exempt them from these obligations. But we have an obligation to do what the state with the previous governments has not done over the past few years, but rather it has created problems. We must resolve this and this is our political decision. We need some time, because that's not the only thing. There are other problems of this kind and of this nature, which, by means of a single regulation, we must tackle in the near future, so that these people do not have all this burden of debt that has accumulated against them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Let me mention two - three elements from the signs and monsters of the past. First of all, in the AIFM's own statutes, persons exempt from the insurance of the AIFM are the self-employed persons who have been subject to the compulsory insurance of other primary insurers. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, MP Nikolaos Igoumenides submits for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The point is that the OHIM can circumvent its own statute. I think that even with a relevant responsible statement from the journalists that they agree that they are exempted from compulsory insurance and from the EUPM, the issue would be resolved. In any case, let's wait for the government's legislation. Two - three examples I am simply presenting in the Minutes for the briefing of the delegation from other similar topics. I have informed you and your office, Minister. Example from Crete. Free professionals in the Kaparian settlement. There's a settlement outside the Moires with two thousand inhabitants. Workers who had declared their registered office there were exempted from compulsory insurance. At the moment, free professionals are being called upon to pay late payments with surcharges and fines of more than EUR 20,000, despite the fact that as residents of this town they had been excluded from compulsory insurance. I also put this in the Minutes for the briefing of the Delegation. [[At this point, MP Nikolaos Igoumenides submits for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Example third. Engineers. Despite the fact that there is in the new law the decoupling of the insurance from property, they put the same issue down. They ask it to be clear and clear and to be applied that parallel insurance is for highly employed engineers, who, at the same time, want to keep the engineer's status by remaining members of the TEMPUS and therefore compulsory members of the TEMPUS. I also make this proposal in the Minutes for the briefing of the Delegation. [[At this point, MP Nikolaos Igoumenides submits for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Fourth case, Mr Minister, and I close with it. Solo? I must admit that I am afraid to answer 'yes, it is individual'. This is a doctor colleague of mine, a cardiologist from Heraklion, Crete. In 2011, the doctor accidentally paid a double contribution. In 2011, he paid twice his contribution to the EBRD - CSAY. In 2012, he asked that this colleague be cleared up, since he had paid twice. It is characteristic that two years later in the New Democracy Government - which he does not understand - his service sent him an answer, saying, "I'm sorry we haven't answered you yet, because the service is undersecretary." I'm putting the answer to the Minutes. [[At this point, MP Nikolaos Igoumenides submits for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The point is, a few months ago where they owed him the ox. Instead of netting off the 1200 euros that had paid contributions in 2011, a situation of EFKA emerged, resulting in a debt of 41000 euros. I imagine that the individual case, obviously, can be dealt with very easily, apart from the fact that the ECA has not presented to him when he said a retired person. He never stated it. That's where they stand. I'm worried if she's really alone. I'm tabling the history in the Minutes. I omit his name for good reasons, but he is at your disposal. I've also sent it to your office, Minister. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Igoumenides, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I think one of these is clean and I close with it. The signs and monsters of the past must be immediately eliminated. I hope that with your ministry's legislative work, we will actually solve them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u49	You have the floor, Minister, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u50	Mr. Igoumenides, first of all we need to collect all the monsters because they're a lot. the legalisation cannot be fragmentary. Otherwise, if it was a matter like that of journalists, we'd have solved it. As long as the weather passes, we find new problems. I will give an example: in Arcadia, in the fires of 2007, there statesmen of the then government and other ambitious candidates were then calling on the people who had burned their homes not to declare and pay building marks. They told them they don't need it and they'll get rid of it. The elections are held. And since then, huge debts have accumulated against these people. There are many other things like this which, of course, are not easy to deal with with with with the rules of law in force, nor can you say 'I make an intervention' without considering the consequences that such an intervention may have, which may cause other kinds of issues, which are not easy here to mention exhaustively, but there is a need for a careful proper and rational response to these problems. That is why I said before in my protology that the basis of our logic is: What does not fit the current legislative regime of the Single Social Security Agency? So what would happen if L.4387 were to apply today? That is what should be done to tackle the old problems. Because today there would be no journalist with insurance as a freelance professional and as editor of newspapers or television or other media. He would be the FBI insured with a contribution obligation, and that is what must dominate all cases. That's how we're going. That is what it says as a basic direction in dealing with these problems, but there are others like what I mentioned in Arcadia with the houses that we have to see in another way, in terms of good administration and in terms of problems that we really have to deal with and we will do so. We've said it before. But we need to do this carefully and in a way that does not really create other issues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, too, Mr. Minister. We continue with the first with number 78/16-10-2017 appropriate question of the first cycle of the Chios MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Andreas Michaelides to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Completion of work for the formation and fence of an expropriated area at Chios airport and construction of the extension of the Christos road". Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for two minutes to develop your timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, Mr President. I think it is self-evident that it is of vital importance for a remote island, such as Chios, the airport and its smooth operation and its operational capacity. A number of years ago, an area to the north of the airport has been expropriated, even at a very high price, and since then this activity had remained inertial, which would have improved Chios airport's 'clear way' with what this could entail. A few months ago the building was launched in this part of the "clear way" in this area that had been expropriated. The work of shaping the 'clear way', i.e. launching, as I said, the removal of materials, the fence of the area which has been frozen at the moment, because there is a problem with the contractor who says that for a long period it has not been paid for the works already carried out and, of course, because there is a great deal of work - because it has many technical issues - the expansion of the perimeter to the west of the airport of Christos. These two issues, Minister, I would like you to clarify today at the stage of the financing, because, as I said before, this is a vital project for our island.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, my colleague. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u54	Thank you very much, Mr President. My dear colleague, thank you very much, first of all, for your question, because the airport of Chios is a classic example of the way in which projects were foaming with the former regime. Announcements and only announcements and no consultation with the local community and the works were usually stuck on paper. For the record, I would remind the HR that the study in 1985 to improve airport infrastructure was carried out. It was never implemented, no environmental impact studies have been carried out, updated in 1996, the BIP was drafted in 1998 and with regard to the master plan, the HR prepared a new development plan for the airport in 2003. These conditions were amended in 2012, nine years later, and were remodeled in 2016, i.e. a year ago. This is what you understand that there is no need to explain what has been done with the work at Chios airport, the dates are speaking for themselves. I had told a previous fellow Member that we are not going to finance projects at airports, which the previous government had included in the TEAD. He had given the total, except for the fourteen, which took place in the competition, and all the other airports were at the centre of privatisation. In May we played a great game, we kept these infrastructures outside TDIDE, they will belong to the Greek people, and we can now upgrade and modernise the infrastructures of the rest of the country. Mr President, to avoid boredom, I will say everything now. The government has shown that despite the difficulties of the times it has progressed and cooperates with local communities and with local authorities. As you remember, the Municipality of Chios informed us about the issue, created by the project, of the fence of expropriation to the north. There was a study of the fence, but I would like to say that we were canceling - and we did well - a very large expropriated area, which had not been able to do so, which was EUR 42,000,000, something far more than EUR 42,000,000. I would like to say that we had agreed to the completion of the airport's work and therefore the work to extend the existing Christos road and to Rodakanakis road must be done and completed. That is why we need to make infrastructure, pedestrianisation, space-forming, and that is why we incorporated this project into the 2017 Public Investment Programme of the SAA, which is the repetitive actions for road projects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u56	I would like to begin by saying, Minister, that we welcome the initiative to integrate the project and indeed the 2017 Public Investment Programme. I would also like to point out the fact that while the whole question of Chios airport was on its way for many years, it is now time to conclude at least at this stage in a particularly difficult and extremely unfavourable economic situation. I think it's an initiative for which your ministry really deserves congratulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u57	We thank my fellow Member for the time being for the economy. Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u58	I'll talk less. I would like to inform my colleague and the citizens of Chios that they know what the planning of our actions from now on is, apart from the work of the road. The electromechanical and fire safety studies are completed to restructure the existing terminal. Architecture and static study have been checked and completed. The study on maintenance and improvement of the existing airport manoeuvre has been prepared and approved with a budget of approximately EUR 3 million. The work of fence, you mentioned it yourself. It will now be completed with the integration of road construction. The development of the geotechnical study on the extension of the airport has been completed and, of course, the preparation of the premeditated study on the possible extension of the runway to the north. Then we will evaluate and discuss with the Chios society about these projects that are mature now, which will lead and which will not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, fifty-six students and schoolchildren and four educational attendants from the 1st Holargo Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We continue with our second question with number 90/17-10-2017 in the first cycle of the Member of Parliament, Mr Gerasios Giakoumatos, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on measures to take on the demographic problem of the country. The current question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Mr. Theanos Fotio. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for two minutes to develop your timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u60	Mr President, Minister, it is not a matter of party or a political nature. It is a national issue, a matter which threatens the country with extinction and above all. So I tell you that in 2050 all the investigations say that our people will be two million less citizens. This does not only have consequences for national defence, economics. He's in insurance above all. You realize that from 65% of the working population today we're going to 55%. You realize what impact it will have on the insurance system. They'll be very strong. This is not only a Greek problem but also a European problem, Minister. And why am I saying that? I will present to you a table showing the tragicity of the situation today about demographics in our country. In 2008 we had eighteen thousand three hundred two births and seven thousand deaths. In other words, we had ten thousand more births in 2008. I won't say it in detail. I'll submit it to the minutes of the House. In 2014 we had ninety - three thousand births and a hundred fourteen thousand deaths, less than twenty thousand. In 2015 we had ninety - two thousand births and a hundred twenty - one thousand deaths, which is less than twenty - eight thousand. In 2016 we had ninety - three thousand births and eighteen thousand deaths. In 2017 until September we had sixty - one thousand births and eighty - nine thousand deaths. In other words, we have six hundred and sixty-four thousand deaths and five hundred eighty-three thousand births. You realize where we're driving. And when I talk about extinction, Minister, I'm talking about real extinction. [[At this point the Member, Mr Gerasios Giakoumatos, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] There is something to be done here, some immediate measures which do not have budgetary costs. I'm not talking about financial costs. I am aware of the situation in my country. However, I would like to say this: in Ireland, which was also in the Memorandum with a troika, it gave EUR 500 for citizens with four children under the age of eight, without income criteria. That is what Ireland has done and without ever considering the troika interfering. That's not what the troika talked about. I am not saying the EUR 500, but something needs to be done, Minister. However, there is the intergroup committee and it works well in the House, but if we wait, we will grow old. Immediately, Minister, you people who are involved in social policy and you have done enough here, and you must step on your feet immediately. They need some measures. The measures will be put to the vote, Mr President, so that I can be consistent in time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u62	Mr Yakumate, I can only agree with the findings and, of course, it is a subject of multi-factoriality and multi-variety. But there are three levels on which our country has so far done nothing or little. The first requires continuous research at national and European level. We don't have an institution that watches the demographic problem. We are one of the few countries in Europe. My government undertakes to proceed with this kind of action.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u63	We don't even know how many lumps we got.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u64	Secondly, to date all there has been is a conclusion of the 1993 Greek Parliament which has come up with concrete proposals for demographics. Nothing or little happened to it. I believe - and this is what the committee in question is doing today - that it should be reviewed in many of its parameters, because they were proposals without infrastructure to implement them, which were not fully implemented, and which produced stereotypes that would outweigh reality and institutional and socialism itself. I am obviously referring to the institutional safeguarding of monogenicity, the right to non-marriage maternity, the cohabitation pact and the high rates of divorce. Our Government wishes to shift its actions and its design primarily to strengthen the child, with a series of protection measures and incentives that I will tell you below. Thirdly, it is well known that there has been no control mechanism for twenty-five years since 1993. Slowly blunt bombs say today, you say, as if we suddenly discovered all these issues. Twenty-five years later, there is no control. Why? My government intends to bring relevant bills for checks at this level and for any decisions it makes. As demographic developments are taking place, Mr Giakoumate, in Greece and the European Union, with its two sides, of inferiority on the one hand and the increase in life expectancy, we are ageing, that is, we are not dying - fortunately - affecting two areas at the same time. Firstly, the reduction of the workforce and, of course, the austerity policies which the neoliberal parties and the European Union have implemented mainly in recent years. An extreme example is our country, which, whatever it does for the blinked bomb you say, when it has 27% devastation of its workforce of 2013, unemployment of 27% and today we can talk about 21.2% that our government has achieved, but still the figures are dramatic, it is a disaster of the workforce. So, if we don't reverse this index, all the other things we build in the sand and we just say stuff about scorpions. I say, then, secondly, that all the policies that have dismantled the labour market and reached us in a middle-aged working ages are also an element, because no one is doing children today or because they are doing little, because what they hope for when they do not find work or know what terms they will be assigned to the left - right. Secondly, the ageing population. What does that mean? What policies do we do for the elderly? What exactly protection measures do we take for the elderly? From what I have said, it appears that for our country the conditions for tackling demographic are: firstly, dealing with poverty, Mr President. Because these days we have heard great reasons left and right that poverty has increased. By a difference: that all Eurostat data, quoted by the media, even MPs and parties, are 2014. In other words, they concern mainly the incomes of the Greek people in 2014 and partly in 2015 for some things. We, in 2016, gave 250 million to deal with poverty and in 2017 we give the CRL, the social income of solidarity, to deal with poverty. If this threat is not lifted above the heads of the Greek people, that is to say, that they are at risk of poverty, what we are talking about is - I say again - paper exercises. I will say - I am not evading - for the more specific proposals.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u65	Please finish, Minister. You have your dentistry, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u66	I shall therefore conclude in a second on this matter. Today, six hundred and twenty-four thousand of our fellow citizens take the CRL, social income of solidarity, and we had budgetd for it to cost the state 760 million and next year we will reinstate the same amount. The same applies to unemployment. I did. The third is the creation of a strong social state, but that is where I will say more in detail the issues of my competence.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, Minister. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u68	Madam Minister, you have spoken of unemployment. And because there's a lot of specs against the New Democracy on unemployment, I'm going to tell you that in 2007, I was privileged to be Minister for Employment, from 11.4% received by Karamanlis took it 7.3%. That's the official evidence. Look at them. 7.3% of how it became 27%, search for another in George Andreas Papandreou, not in New Democracy. You cannot blame us for unemployment when I officially handed it over to 7.3% at the end of 2007. That's the first. Myth. Secondly, don't go for 27% -21%, because 27% -21% are four hundred thousand young people who left for abroad. They are not counted as unemployed. It's four hundred thousand. You do not put tourism, which was indeed very successful this year, and has been employing people. Now, where are they going to go to the OAED, see how many they will be? So we cannot be pleased, even for 21%, because they would not need CRLs and allowances. What does the other guy want? He wants a job, he doesn't want an allowance. "Give me a job, so I don't need an allowance." You said about middle-aged work. Can I agree with you? Aren't you in the government for two and a half years? Why don't you change him? I don't understand. It requires opposition because the laws of the middle ages apply. So who brings him to the middle ages? And what keeps you from changing him? So many provisions, so many laws you have, bring him to change. Third, you're talking about the elderly. Don't talk at the hanged man's house about rope. We are the only country in Europe, which has 24% VAT in the nursing homes. Your government put it in. It has a EUR 500 pension, it pays 21% VAT, when in all European countries it is 0% to 7%. So don't say that. And for poverty, we didn't make it. Eurostat took it off. As it disproved you that we were saying about Samara that we had 0.7% growth and you said 'no', you hurricane it and now came out that Eurostat and that two years 2015, 2016 we have a recession. Mercy! You can't keep telling the people with lies and fairy tales! Let's go to that particular matter. There are measures, Minister, which have no financial costs, to go to the truck after all. First of all, is it difficult for the recruitment, Mr President, of the AACC to put 20%, 15% of them in multiples, which have four children and are all four unemployed? Let's give a motive. That is not a financial cost, you can do it immediately, neither a committee are expecting the other councils. Second, rewrites. There were thirty-two years of free translations, and the precursors had no complaints and no objections. It's no cost. And with four kids, a tent that doesn't have anything to eat, and has four kids here and the other one in the Coronis. Third, luxurious tax on cars from 1,900 cubic meters or over. All right, I got nine kids, eight kids, seven kids, I got to get a van to either take them to school or anywhere. This van can't be under 1,900 cubic metres. So let Mr. Spirtz put in these cases that we will not have a luxury tax. What am I asking? Of course, I will tell you this: I have not come for party controversy nor have I come to apologise for the past. Politics memorials never liked me. The New Democracy and the governments are all judged. We were judged. For you, however, there is indeed no census. I agree to become an institute for population recording, etc. But the E21 we've got and we're writing the tents - that's what you see - needs to make a box, which it records. Today, if I ask you as a ministry, how many tents there are, you don't know that. So change the E21 so that we can actually record how many people are in Greece. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, Mr. Yakumato. The Deputy Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Mrs. Theanos Fotio, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u70	You do not want political controversy, but you have devoted half of your speech to it. In any case, Mr Yakoumato, Greece did not stop in 2007 and New Democracy again, mostly in the two years of the major crisis, where the universe destroyed. This story, "We finished in 2007 with Constantine Karamanlis" first I heard it. Now, I understand that at the moment you have made a series of measures, not for demographics, but for luxuries. You did very well. And I, like all my government, are studying a lot of things for the multiples. But I am dealing with your question on substance and I am not escaping, I am not throwing the ball out of the field, as you have done. Because the question is not just about the multiples, it is about every child who is not born, every child who is in a family, every child who is in a single parent family, every child who is out of marriage, every child who is in a divorced family. We're talking about all these kids. So let's go see what we're doing for social protection. I said before that the first and most important thing is to create a strong state, which means social protection strong. What does that mean? First of all, there is an increase in the funds. How can we talk today about a social state of protection, namely welfare, social solidarity, which we say when even at the age of prosperity Greece was the last in the funds? So, read it out, the Eurostat you like and ELSTAT tells us that we were the last in Europe's funds. And then we had high growth and great prosperity. How much? Seven hundred eighty million, what we received. What did we do within a year? We doubled our welfare payments. How do you want it to happen? No money, like you're telling me? I do not now want to refer to other issues. Without money, that can't be.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u71	I said, non-financial measures, not budgetary.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u72	Mr. Colleague, you're not listening. Don't open a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u73	Secondly, on the basis of the 2019 measures, we will have almost quadruple of welfare funds. And now special protection measures for the child and incentives for having a child. Firstly, all the studies show in France and Germany - which most of all has managed to reverse this situation in part, while all the other European countries have been demolished in demographic terms - that the most important measure is that the child should be able to do so with free structures from the time the state is born, such as daycare stations, many and large. What did you do? You hid the problem under the rug, two thousand eight hundred day-care stations all over the country. We cannot deal with demand today, because we have put the poor children in, and you only have children from working women. You're right. But where would the poor kids go from? ‘Or by the unemployed women? Secondly, all of Parliament's studies and studies say that it needs law to modernise the framework of assumption and adoption. We are therefore bringing to the consultation within the month the new law on recruitment and adoption, which we hope will be passed in November. Third. School meals. A hundred and thirty thousand students with an international competition will receive in seven hundred and sixty three schools each day a hot meal in 2017-2018, while in 2019 five hundred thousand hot meals per day will be given to all schools in the country, almost, in large percentages, precisely because we saw that it is one of the important actions that enhance family security: "My child goes to school, somewhere it eats."
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u74	Madam Minister, please finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u75	I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u76	You're going to complain to me after you can't go to your committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u77	You're right. Fourth. Support for child allowance in 2019 measures as regards family allowances. Two hundred and sixty million extra in the budget, precisely to strengthen the first and second children. Because the families, with their first and second children, if they don't consent to make one more, we don't see any light. That is the overwhelmingly large number, and you must take that very into account. Five. Two hundred and fifty community centres, which we approve throughout the country today, will be hanged under the community centres, combined structures specific. A hundred family support centres. We have submitted them to the revision of the NSRP and are currently progressing well. Six. Housing policy. Residence allowance for families with EUR 600 million since 2019, which have been voted on in countermeasures and which will bring great relief to all families, who are in rent or have a loan. These are tangible things. We're doing it. It's small things. We do not expect to reverse everything, but we do not expect that, by subsidising only one category of children, we will resolve demographics. This is perhaps our big difference, Mr Yakumato, as a party.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u78	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty-four students and students and two educational attendants from the 5th Amarousio High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We continue with the seventh under No 99-10-2017 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the deadlocks in the operation of the children's stations and the thousands of children, excluded from these structures. Mr. Synthraki, you have the floor for two minutes to develop your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u79	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Minister, while you were telling us personally and the government as a whole that you would solve the problem at the kindergartens, we are ultimately witnessing the hypocrisy of your social policy. More specifically, this year, as in previous years, more than thirty-five thousand children were not accepted at municipal school stations by the ESDP programme. Ten thousand children of poor, young families who took the voucher cannot make use of the right, since there is no corresponding structure in their area that operates. Even more are children whose parents do not qualify for or join the program. Every year, then, the same anxiety for both parents and children. Every year, instead of fixed and continuous state care and care structures of the child, they are always in front of the emblematic state actions of a “long-term parking” for their child. Two. In infants, the situation is even more tragic, because the number of sections relating to these ages is evidently dropping in the ocean. The shortcomings are unbelievable. I'm talking about municipal kindergartens and not private. Third. The employees of all the specialities, which manage these structures, continue to be hostages of fixed-term contracts and part thereof is covered by the eight-month OAED which leave immediately the next period as soon as their contract is completed. The permanent now, few, most have been retired and recruitment has stopped, as a Memorandum and yours and the previous governments. Fourthly, many of the lucky parents who will enrol a child into a structure will be asked to pay food, while family income is immersed, literally, and it is undiscoverable. With all this in mind, it is challenged that the government should announce a package of measures for the establishment of so-called thousands of eight hundred new kindergartens, covering up to 2021 additional forty-five thousand children. If and whenever these promises are implemented, they will once again involve a very small proportion of children and opportunities, which will work, with the famous social cooperatives and individuals. So we ask you, Minister: what measures do you intend to take to ensure that the necessary state funding is immediately available for the staff of the kindergartens in order to meet the identified needs? Secondly, will there be planning and funding from the Public Investment Programme and, of course, a brave increase in the NSRF funds for a coherent network of modern public building infrastructures in all the municipalities of the country and, above all, in the large urban centres, so that at a short-term level, with stable public structures, the child's vital needs for care and education are met? Finally, will contract workers finally be permanently permanentised and when do you see what level you are talking about and what level you are talking about? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after taking part in the Educational Project "Democracy Workshop", which organizes the "State Foundation, 16 students and students and two teachers attending from the 1st Primary School of Zephyri. The House welcomes them. Thank you for being with us. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u81	Mr Colleagues, you will allow me to make corrections to the figures you have said, precisely because I have, of course, the final figures that your party did not know about. First, this year there were thirty - three thousand valid applications. Of these, they entered with voucher, that is, without paying, a hundred eight thousand children plus a thousand and a half-seven children who entered the twenty-four OAED nursery stations all over Greece. The total is one hundred and nine thousand six hundred ten children. Indeed, if you're making the rehearsals, there's been about twenty-four thousand outsiders. I mean, they stayed outside without voucher. And of course you're making a big mistake here, Mr. Synergy. All the children who were from poor families took voucher over all the budgets from state funds. We're talking about all the children from the poor families. Of course, you are right, that if they did not find a place to go to their area, there is a great problem because it was a gift of what was done to them. Secondly, we have increased the funding for nurseries. While in 2014-2015 there were 174 million from the NSRP and then the government had put 12 million from national funds, today there are only 71,800,000 from the NSRF and so the government put 151,600,000 from the budget. This shows exactly that the money of the ESRB was eaten in the first time and not for the poor families and the unemployed. That is why we are putting - and we are determined - on the budget today. A second point which I must correct in what you said is that, at the moment, nursery stations are a yearly 'parking'. Let me tell you that these nurseries we are talking about operate in the municipalities of the country with strict criteria that control the Ministry of the Interior and the municipalities through the EBRD, their managing authority, with the announcement of kindergartens, infants, etc. I would like to ask the President-in-Office of the Council whether he would like to make a statement on the situation in Bosnia-Herzegovina and on the situation in Bosnia-Herzegovina and on the situation in Bosnia-Herzegovina and in Bosnia-Herzegovina. Not only do they not work in 'parking', but the positions are proclaimed by procedures that are very clear each time, with all the criteria, they sign contracts, which are eleven months old and are renewed every year continuously. You also said one more inaccurate thing, that the government will build with COMES children's and nursing homes. Mr Synthraki, we are not expecting 2019, because of course we will build a thousand eight hundred young nursery stations in municipalities - but we are bringing the measures earlier, so that we can try them out and see if what we say can be done. That's why our government is setting a target for 2018, that is, for this year, and it will very quickly invite the relevant municipalities it has chosen, because the municipalities that have been selected are on strict criteria, where they really had a shortage of these structures. We will therefore put around EUR 20,000 000 for 2018 in the budget for the year 2018, to set up new municipal stations in the areas that we saw there is a big problem: two hundred three municipalities, three hundred sixty-six new nurseries with a focus mainly on infants, because that is the great shortage, and about nine to ten thousand children in addition to what I told you. And we raise every year our children, because, as I explained, we received eighty thousand children in 2014-2015 and today we have reached nine thousand children. That's not why we're here. There's no misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u82	Madam Secretary, you have your second language. Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u83	That's exactly what I mean, that just when you're in front of a huge problem, you try every way to deal with it. We are taking small steps, of course, but we are breathing, at the moment, in the situation of the crisis and in the budgetary margins that we have received.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Synhronakis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u85	Minister, I understand that you are trying in a way to justify the distance of the major declarations to resolve the problem of childcare stations with what is really happening and we think it is a part of hypocrisy and falseness on the part of the government. And I will also tell you a mandarin: “Since I have learned to tell the truth. I never loved lies and fairy tales." So it's very important toward parents and children to tell the truth. Because you say that the demands of the poor families were met by sharing ten thousand more pills from the ESDP programme, when it is actually about redistributing those who first got them, including thousands of poor families, families with unemployed, etc. They have not been able to find a place in the respective structure. The government celebrates that by sharing the coupons it has covered the demands of the poorest families. But, in itself, this shows that your system serves to redistribute poverty between the most and the least poor and, of course, not the need for all children to have a place free of charge in pre-school education, which is also undermined by a great lack of state-owned childcare facilities throughout the country. At the same time, of course - and here is the great lie and hypocrisy - in the context of unjust, class development, which you and your Government call upon, and of subjecting to imperialist interests, your government will give some billions for the F-16. Can you tell us where you will give these from and how much will you give for children's stations, how much will you give for social policy, when the heating oil is pending, to cut it down gradually, when it is left through the social invoice, to make too many people out? So this social policy of yours has gone to the tarts and it can't convince anyone. You can tell us very specifically how many applications have been submitted. The applications submitted were about fifty thousand. We're talking about free kindergartens and HERE structures. Valid ones are thirty-three thousand. This means that some of these requests you rejected are because they did not meet the criteria and conditions for most of them. But they come from working folk families and simply did not meet the income criteria. After all, they are neither rich nor have the villas and the opportunity to take their children to private kindergartens. So you should tell the truth the way it is. This is in relation to the issues you have raised. From there on, Minister, our party considers that schooling for children in the structures of childcare facilities is not just due to a parent's need to find work or to continue with what it may have. It is a fundamental need and a right for the child to be socialised and developed. As such a right and need to be offered solely by the state, with modern and secure structures, with an integrated pedagogical programme for all children. It's "parking" kindergartens. We do not talk when the kindergartens once belonged to the state, the state's exclusive responsibility. Now it's not the state's exclusive responsibility. They've gone into the counties' responsibility. Management is carried out on the side of the municipalities. You know very well that funding is cut off and that children's stations are trying to cover the costs. And you know that the ESDP programme is very vulnerable. You can't rely on an NSRF program to say you're going to build complete and substantial pre-school education structures.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u86	Finish, Mr. Synhonaki, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u87	Developments confirm the timeliness of the JRC's positions, which highlights the need for a comprehensive treatment and care plan for all children, with the sole responsibility of the state, which will be staffed with skilled and assistant staff. In this respect, therefore, the JRC invites both workers and parents - young couples in particular - to fight for purely public and free education for all and two-year-old compulsory pre-school education - pre-school pre-school pre-school education - for children and children - for all children under the sole responsibility of the State, all children under the age of four at public schools, without food supplies, for permanent and stable work for all workers. These, in our view, must be elements of a struggle between the working people and the parents, and the JRC will stand by them. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, Mr. Covenant. Madam Minister, you have the floor. Please be as consistent as possible in time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u89	Yes, Mr. President. Mr. Synthriakis, I respect the cultural culture of Crete. But because you read a mandarin or you sing it doesn't mean you're telling truth and I'm lying. Any evidence I formally submitted to the House is valid and your party can check it out at any time. One hundred and forty thousand were the applications, but they weren't valid, Mr. Synchronakis. Valid ones were thirty-three.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u90	Why?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u91	Secondly, with regard to food, absorbency and so on, listen, Mr Synergyakis. We have modernised the whole framework of nurseries which has made the lives of workers and parents a little better. First, we gave the right to all the nursing stations of the municipalities and sent a circular to which we said that our direction is to fill all the voucher places. That didn't happen before. It was up to 70%. So we increased the opportunity to definitely get more kids, with what we did. Second, the mother who took voucher and didn't find out where to take it, she keeps it. We didn't take it from her, and we gave it to others. He's keeping it, because he can move, Mr. Synhonaki. She used to move, she couldn't take her kid to a station she was finding. But he can go elsewhere during. The voucher that the mother took has it and doesn't miss it. Thirdly, as I said, we have sent circulars, among other things, where we expressly ban the feedingstuffs. This is an act which will be checked if, in addition to the vouchers, the municipalities also ask for food. He'll be checked and we won't leave it like this. Fourthly, the workers who, when I arrived at this ministry, were desperate because they had to pay six and eight months, are now being paid monthly. They have six months of regular contracts, as is the length of nurseries. In your timely question you say something that does not apply, that is, eight months of OAS. It's ten months of regular contracts, renewed every year. Indeed, I cannot make announcements that do not concern our Ministry and concern the Ministry of the Interior about the permanentization of workers. I believe that, in relation to the ratios of departures and those that we get from here and then, it will be re-regulated in a better way. I mean, I've never claimed much more than my government, who found this landscape that I'm explaining, that we're changing kindergartens, we're making a big policy on kindergartens, etc. But we're saying we're going to build these three hundred sixty new structures now, that we're going to call the Interior Minister, all the mayors, to discuss how to fix them. I accept that the Communist Party wants the best, wants the dream, what may not happen today with these budgetary limits. He's fine and he's claiming it. But can we control the government for what it does and say whether this is a positive measure to improve the situation or not? And, of course, when we have put 200 million into the establishment of the eight hundred stations, which you are allegedly saying here, but you voted against the countermeasures - not you, but Parliament - and they will be implemented, you know, Mr Synthraki, because it is Sunday's short festival in 2019, since we will apply the pilot for three hundred sixteen stations in 2018, we will be ready, with mistakes or no corrections, to better it then, namely in 2019. So what we're trying to do is multiply at great and very fast pace a situation that we found, which was hidden under the carpet. Protection of the child is a choice of our government. We will bring many measures to protect the child and make sure that there we will have focused all our attention on a very important part of the welfare portfolio, namely social solidarity.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, Minister. We continue with the ninth with the ninth number 84/16-10-2017 topical question of the second-cycle question of the Member of the Ioannina Coalition of the Radical Left, Mr. Meropis Jufis, Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: "The operation of Community Centres". Mrs. Jufi, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the question of my question is indeed the functioning of community centres. Your Ministry, recognizing the need for information and access to social protection actions, with L.4368 and the joint ministerial decision followed in March 2016 established the operation of community centres. Based on this founding law, and also on the joint ministerial decision, community centres are described as a key core of expanded 'one stop shop' services with an individualised holistic approach, which, by supporting or synergy with the Social Services Directorate of each local government, aims to serve as an action - 'homrela' - to provide the centres with services that will respond and strengthen the policies already implemented or planned. For example, their main role is to implement the Social Solidarity Income, the ETVA Programme, what is happening with active employment policies, for which you have already been asked, in cooperation with the OAED, with the Secretariat-General for Lifelong Learning and others. We know that some community centres have begun to operate in the municipalities. There is, from the point of view, also a question of staffing with this special staff, which, however, is provided for in the relevant law. It is also very important for their operation to link electronics to all the registries of the National Coordination, Monitoring and Evaluation Mechanism of Social Inclusion and Social Cohesion Policies. And the other very serious issue is to inform the citizens, that is to say, that the citizens know exactly what they can expect from these Community centres. You have said many times, of course, that that is where the citizen should go with his VRF and with his AMKA and be informed daily of his rights, his benefits, the possibility of finding work, whether he can find a place in the foundations of his area for the elderly, the disabled, for children with disability problems, for all possible subsidies. So my question - because I have exceeded my time - is this: What measures do you intend to take, first of all, to extend the programme and what is the timetable for all the municipalities participating in the programme for their immediate operation? And of course, in that direction, tell us how many people are already in operation and how many have been served in them. Finally, if you think something needs to be done - either centrally or at regional level - so that the citizens of the municipality in a coordinated way, in addition to the brochures which have already been published and already exist, be informed and incorporated there and all the programmes relating to them at national and local level.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, my colleague. Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes. Please, as long as you can, keep the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u95	Mrs. Jufi, I will say very quickly that, as you know, the institution of community centres was an invention of our Ministry as part of the national mechanism. It's a very innovative institution. Why? For the first time, it connects the central state to the municipalities - I am sorry that Mr Syntrakis is not here - that is to say, connects the state to the municipalities, precisely because through the single geo-information system that has exactly the information given to the citizen, and that the citizen asks the public to record centrally within the Ministry of Welfare, within the new address of the mechanism that we founded. Therefore, for the first time, the daily lives of the municipalities are linked to the central government, which can see which of the things they imagine are of interest to the citizens and which do not care about them and so on. So it's a very serious institution. It's a front desk, that is, it doesn't solve the problems, it tells the public where to go and what to do, it helps him electronically if necessary, to do his jobs, which he may not be able to do at home. It's like the CRL and everything else. They have three registries, Mr President. The first is the beneficiaries, as is the case with the CRL. Their big difference with the JEPs - and there's nothing to do with the JEPs - is that in some JEPs they issue you a pre-existing situation of yours, that is, they tell you that you're a third party, or they give you a proof of your studies, or a proof of whether you've finished school, or anything else, of the budget etc. On the contrary, community centers, because they bring all the personal data in front of the accredited employee, tell you what you can still get, what allowances you can get, which services you can address. For example, you can take voucher for your child, you can go to that nursing home, a legal person governed by private law with these terms in your area or with those conditions if you go to the public nursing home and so on, you can and you have a right to go there, you have no right to go here, you can connect to the OAED etc. In other words, they change the daily lives of the citizens and at the same time tell them what "current" programmes are being launched in each municipality, namely national programmes, ESDP programmes and special municipality programmes. That's their big difference. I think they will become extremely popular. Of course, the Greek people need to understand what they are doing. I think, however, that soon the Greek people learn when they see that there is a mechanism that restores their dignity. I am tabling the rules of operation that we took out in May 2016, which stipulates a lot of what you are asking for, Mrs. Jufi, and states exactly how the employees of the community centres will be trained, how the publication, with brochures, with special spots on television, etc. will be made. We believe that all the officials employed in community centres are, first of all, under the municipality's social service and, at the same time, are appointed via ASP, precisely so that there are no well-known and "easy" that "the Syrians enter everywhere and do that", but also because we obviously believe that this is the case. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Mrs Theano Folios, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] The National Centre for Public Administration has already held seminars on workers. We are constantly doing seminars and will be intensified by region. We managed to incorporate them into the NSRP. They will cost about 53 million euros. For 2017-2020 this money is secured. They are also being renewed for 2020-2023 and we have them all in the new ESDP. Let me explain in detail what exists in detail throughout Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u96	Mrs. Fotio, you'd better do it in your dentistry. We've already reached five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u97	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u98	Thank you. Mrs. Jufi, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u99	Mr President, as a Member of Parliament Ioannina, I will speak for a little while on local issues, but also for my experience of visiting the community centre of the Municipality of Ioannis. In our region, therefore, some centres have been opened, others are planned to open up, and some have not yet been staffed. My experience with my visit to this community centre was as follows: The officials were there, the centre was equipped with appropriate logistics, in an area accessible to the citizens of the municipality. In fact, however, it was a non-functional community center. I was informed, therefore, by the workers that the issues they were concerned with in order to be able to offer their services were, above all, that they were calling for the process of education and training to be accelerated, precisely what they should do, but also for the overall planning. They also raised the question that public and private bodies, mainly at local level, had not been registered in the national register to enable this possibility to be directly connected and to inform citizens. Finally, they were very concerned about whether there should also be some extrovertic actions either centrally or locally, which I asked in my first speech, in order to demonstrate the operation of these centres as a field for the benefit of the citizens, since the citizens, which happen to be outside, are in fact being taken into account. I think the Ministry's intention is quite different. So I'll be specific, with three questions again: What can you do to speed up the implementation of the workers' request for their education and training, but also to open up the other community centres that have not yet started? What can be done - is a second demand put forward by the social services of the municipalities - for inter-universal or regional coordination? How can these structures be coordinated with the other social services of the ATT - but, if possible, at regional level, because it is crucial - and other structures providing social welfare and protection services? They consider it very important that there should be joint planning, planning and assistance to the beneficiaries. Finally, I would like to ask you if you are planning, because we also have the regional development conference in front of us, something more specific in our region, so that we may also inform the citizens of the region of your presence for the operation of these centres. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u100	Thank you, Mrs. Jufi. Let me make a comment. I wish the House had fellow Members with your courtesy and morality, and I really say it from your heart! Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u101	Mr President, Mrs Jufi, I understand that your diligence, that is to say the fact that as a Member you are doing your duty, you are controlling the structures that we are establishing, you see the problems, etc., leads you to some thoughts, that perhaps at the moment community centres are in a situation that is not working, they do not know what they are doing, etc. That's not true. First of all, I would like to inform you how they operate throughout Greece and what happens in every region. That's the one I want to inform you about. But the second thing I want to say from the outset is this: I have tried here to explain that it is a completely new institution which will have great sustainability. I hope so. In fact, it's the pillar of the new privileged state. There was no such thing before. There were only institutions and benefits. That was the whole story. At the moment, there is a basic institution that will develop, is within the services of the municipalities, manages weakened municipal services at the moment when they cannot cope with such a story and is completely innovative. So I think it takes a little patience. I think it is a great achievement that we have hundreds of forty community centres, when this story has started since 2015 and we have voted for the relevant measures since December 2015, so you understand and seem to be one thing that cannot be done from one day to the next and that we are going very fast. The figures are: There are one, two, three, four, five, six regions which are very high, i.e. they have 100%, which has the northern Aegean. He's built and operated his centers. In fact, I went to May last year and started in Rhodes, and I inform you of the enthusiasm of the people who were there, but it also takes a synergy of the municipalities, that is, the mayor, with all the help they need to get from us. The northern Aegean, therefore, has 100%, up to 70% -77% of western Macedonia, Epirus - you are in it, Mrs Jufi - that is, about 77% of the centres in your region, seven out of nine. They have not been established in two areas, i.e. the Municipality of Igoumenitsa and the Municipality of Sulio. There is the second speed, which is around 62% created, such as in Attica and in central Macedonia. Of course, there is the third speed and the final speed, which is nothing, is 0%. Let's say, it's 0% of the Peloponnese. The Peloponnese has one particular thing, as you know. She refused her district manager to take care of them. He decided to make a regional structure on his own and to build only six compared to the twenty-six that he had to build and as I see it now, he hasn't built anyone. The same is true of the Ionian Islands Region. I hope it's accelerating there too. But there is also the medieval part, Thessaly, 12%, there is Central at a higher rate, etc. That's the picture. I now refer to what you said about regional planning. We now intend to do the seminars at regional level, because until now we have done them either in a municipality or brought them all here to the EMCDDA. So we will now proceed and build a driver, which can be made directly telecoms, that is to say he will tell them exactly the steps they have to take in the use of tools, but further look at them on a screen, if that helps better. Thirdly, regional planning for us is to inform and inform workers about their jobs. I mean, even though I understand your concern, considering it's an excellent institution, because it doesn't speed up, I think...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u102	We're a little worried about time, Mrs. Fotio.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u103	I'm speeding up in time, too. I'll tell you this, Mrs. Jufi. Until October this year, community centres set up were minimal. Now we see every day where the number is constantly growing. I have good hopes, therefore, that by the end of the year we will have both two hundred and fifty and, of course, at different speeds. We will, however, be able to very quickly in 2018 to have a very comprehensive picture of their operation and speed up all procedures and, as I said, change the communication tool that we will use for both workers and regions and for citizens.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u104	Thank you, Minister. We continue with the sixth question under number 73/11-10-2017 in the first cycle of the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament and the Athens MP Mr Spyridon Lykoudis to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "The prospect of restoring the historic building of Ernesto Tsiller and the reopening of the films "ATITON" and "ATOLON". Mr President, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u105	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, the citizens of Athens, every Athenian and every Athenian who loves his city, who lives and moves in the city, who walks its centre, can only feel enormous grief seeing this open wound in the street of Stadium for five years, this shell standing there and devastated, the fiery historical building of Chiller. Look at you anyway after the crisis this big road in the center of Athens, Stadium, is a repulsive, depressing, dark side of the city. Even though there was some living space there, there was still light, there was the historic hotel "EXPERIA" on the other hand, the film "ASTOR", "ATITICN" and "Apollos", the fireplace, there was a vitality at this point of the city. Now there is nothing, the vast grief I repeat. They are involved in the history of the restoration or non-rehabilitation of the building, the Foundation of the Museum of Athens, the Foundation of Vouros - Eftaxia and the Foundation of Dekozi - Vouros which has the other half of the historic building. The Athens Museum tells me that the other half, the Dekozi-Vouros Foundation, owes him 26 million and if he doesn't get them, I don't know what he can do about this building, to give permission, that is, for any action on it? The Municipality of Athens has said that if the security, which will be collected, goes for its external side and if we accept the Niarchas Foundation's offer, to be interested in restoring the interior, the thing could go ahead. The Niarchor Foundation, however, says that for 20 years the building should not be sold to give you the assistance of restoration and the Foundation of the Athens Museum says that if I don't get my money, I can only sell the building, so I can't accept the proposal of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation and the building remains as a deaf man, open wound, misery for the center of Athens and a depressing picture for every Athenian. I wanted to ask you - although I understand that the responsibility of the Ministry or the state on this point can only be responsibilities for an effort to help you in history - if you are thinking about this issue. And how do you think the state and the ministry can intervene? I'm addressing a man of art and letters. This picture can't hurt you. It is a historic building, a cultural diamond in the center of Athens and the operation of an art site with two cinemas, who were living in the center. What are we going to do, Minister, on this?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u106	Thank you. The Minister for Culture and Sport has the floor, Mr. Lydia Conniordos.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u107	Mr Lykoudi, I can only agree with you on the great cultural value that this stunning building has provided in the center of Athens. I can only agree with the great tribulation that is causing all of us the fact that this building is still in this situation. We are watching closely all that is evolving in relation to this building and we are willing to help in any way we can. But, legally, as you yourself said, our responsibility is limited, because this two-storey building is owned by Stamatou Dekozis - Vouros. So the Ministry of Culture is not related to this building, so it cannot intervene in any way so that it can help to restore and do it again as it was. Therefore, the obligation and care to restore, maintain and establish the monument is reserved to the owner under Law 3028/2002. Also, a second factor, which prevents us from intervening, is that the building is not characterized by the Ministry of Culture. It has been characterized in 1984 by the former Ministry of Spatial Planning and the Environment, the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Culture. Where he can help is from the fact that he is located in the surroundings of the area characterised by the Ministry of Culture and Sport as a new monument of OTE on Studi 1, which has been characterized. Therefore, according to the provisions on the protection of antiquities, it can be a factor in helping the Ministry of Culture in this building. However, this presupposes the existence of restoration studies for the building, which we are discussing, which have not yet been carried out, which have not come. Therefore, and at this point we cannot yet help. However, once these studies and the request to intervene or change the use of the monument, which will come to the Ministry of Culture anyway, that is where we will be charitable in this effort. However, the Ministry of Culture has already helped to support measures, damage recovery measures at the main entrances. It has helped to place metal scaffolding, it has contributed to all this first protection of the building from further damage and, of course, the protection of citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u108	Thank you, Minister. The floor is given by Z' Vice-President of the House, Mr. Spyridon Lykoudis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u109	Madam Minister, I must tell you that your answer to me disappoints me and I think that the citizens of Athens are also disappointed. Not because you have a negative attitude to this matter, I want to be fair, nor because what you said is not what you said. There is no legal possibility, nor is there any legal obligation on the basis of the existing regime around the building, the building, the state and the Ministry. But do you know what's going on? At some point something must be done as a state responsible for something that does not go through this incredible difficulty arising from the parties involved. The state, you know, apart from its legal obligation - you know that very well, I refuse to have any advice here - has a moral responsibility and a required sensitivity to such issues. I don't know what he can do, interfering with the level of formal data on the problem. But it has a duty of political initiatives. Goddamn it. It is not possible that the historic building of Chiller, which was given through some legacy in the Museum of Athens, the Foundation of Dekozis - Vouros, etc., which is a building of the city, is a building of our country, to be involved in the process who owes, to whom and what can be done. Of course, I understand that these typical aspects also exist. On the other hand, a state that is favoured and operating must take political initiatives. What do I mean? I'm sorry, but I'm very sensitive to this. I'm an Athenian and I can't see this thing all the time. I suggest you invite the stakeholders, restore a new contact with the Niarchus Foundation, find the Mayor of Athens, have a meeting of bodies, get the issues down and, if possible, take a step back, allowing the state to intervene in another way. Madam Minister, this wound cannot be left open. It is a hopeless picture in the center of Athens. I do not believe that there can be another capital in Europe where there can be this shell in the centre and remain. There was in Berlin the day after the bombings, but we were at war. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u110	Thank you, too, for the time-consuming economy. Madam Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u111	First of all, I would like to stress the fact that the Ministry of Culture and Sport has a great deal of sensitivity to the historic buildings and buildings that are maintained throughout Athens. It has restored twenty-two buildings in the context of the MELT: "Acropolis", "Loverdou", "Metropolis", "Athens" (Athens), "Constantine" and "Eleni", theatre "Rex", the National Theatre, twenty-five buildings in Plaka. Also, free spaces such as Acropolis, National Garden. Six hundred buildings are characterized, monitored. In other words, it is a huge task of the Ministry of Culture to protect the historic centre and the historical memory through the buildings of the centre of Athens. We're not disfellowshiping the care we have for this building. But, as I told you, this building is a private building. We don't have the right to intervene. But what we are doing and have already begun to do is that we are in cooperation with the Pan-Hellenic Association of Owner Buildings and Monuments for Integrating and Private Projects in the NSRF. So far, it has not gone any further, this whole project has not been completed, but we are trying to do that. The government is also working on a plan to improve the image of the historic centre of Athens with various actions, by exploiting, restoring buildings, highlighting monuments, as well as improving the public spaces of the historic centre. We are also very concerned about this, and we have already started work on intervention in abandoned buildings, which is also a danger to citizens. However, these need time to be able to be legally supported and to be decisions that are shared with the owners and citizens. Therefore, the Ministry of Culture is really struggling for the preservation of the cultural stock of the historic centre that accounts for it and contributes to the restoration of the buildings throughout the center. With the Stavros Niarchos Foundation, as you may know, we have very good cooperation. We have a very good relationship of confidence, we are working together on very many flagrant actions and we hope that a solution can be found so that this sponsorship can benefit. Also important is the initiative of the Municipality of Athens on security money. We do not know where this security money is to help the building, that is to say, to start studying and rehabilitating it. But what we can say is that we are very concerned about the fact. The Stadium, although it has been hurt, should not forget that it still has historical theatres on its way, historical sites such as the Art Theatre and other theatres. It has not, that is, completely devastated, as you say. And we should not say that because we are creating a false picture that affects these areas, which are still alive.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u112	Thank you, too, Madam Minister. We continue with our first question with No 79-16-10-2017 on the second question of the Parliamentary Corinth of the Radical Left Coalition to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on "Protection of workers in the OTA and respecting health and safety rules". Mrs Thalerite has the floor for two minutes to develop her question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u113	Mr President, Minister, the question really concerns the protection of workers at the OTAs and the observance of health and safety rules. In recent years, accidents at the municipalities have increased considerably, and many of them are fatal. In particular, in December 2015 to June 2017, thirty-two serious accidents at work have occurred and from July 2014 to August 2017, thirty-four accidents at work in the municipalities have occurred. These figures, in fact, are likely to be higher in view of the fact that we do not have all the data, especially when these figures relate to contracts, i.e. contractors for a certain period of time. We know very well that they often suffer the consequences of accidents at work silently because of the precarious work relationship with the OTAs. Another particular aspect, and it should certainly be taken into account, is the fact that most of these accidents occur in the area of cleanliness of municipalities. It is also an area that, as we all know, precariousness is even greater. In particular, fatal accidents involve workers, workers, drug escorts who either fell or were hit by vehicles themselves. Most accidents are also caused by health and safety violations. In other words, workers and workers are not provided with the necessary personal protective equipment. No maintenance of equipment and means shall be carried out. The technical means, for example, are often inappropriate. So despite the efforts of the government and, I know very much, of the Ministry of Interior under Article 97 of Law 4483/2017, which we have recently voted on, there are three main interventions. It extends to cleaning workers by fixed-term contracts the right to grant personal protective equipment. It extends the powers of intervention of the Labour Inspectorate. In other words, the so-called 'exposure' to be submitted, if it finds gaps in safety and hygiene matters, for the first time a fine may be introduced. In addition, the committee set up to assess the existing legislative framework on personal protective equipment, the adoption of health and safety measures, and to submit proposals for the upgrading of modernization. It should be noted that institutions and workers are also involved on the self-government side. Of course I will not go into the recent one - we would say - Article 119 of Law 4487/2017, the recent amendment by your Ministry, due to a lack of time and respect for time. I will say that despite the efforts that have been made at times by the government, it is appropriate to take immediate additional measures to prevent accidents and implement existing legislation. I ask you the following questions: What measures does the Government intend to take in the near future to prevent accidents at work in the LAGs and to ensure that the breach of the terms of labour legislation on health and safety is punished under the existing legislation of your Ministry? What measures does it intend to take to implement or, if necessary, revise the institutional framework governing the obligations of the ATT as employers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u114	Thank you, Mrs. Thalerite. The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u115	Mrs Theleritis, you are indeed raising a very important issue concerning the health and safety of workers, particularly at the local government agencies. The fact is that there is a growing trend in accidents at the OTAs. The Ministry of Labour has long taken initiatives at the end of the day, i.e. organisational, legislative, information and audit level. First of all, I should like to make it clear that the provisions of labour legislation on health and safety concern all workers with whatever employment relationships and whether they work, both in the public and in the private sectors, that is to say, whether they have fixed-term private law contracts, whether for an indefinite period or for an indefinite period, or for a work, with any employment relationship and if they are in the public or private sectors, the provisions of labour law must be complied with. In this sense, local government bodies, as part of the employer's legal exclusive responsibility, have a full obligation to ensure health and safety measures for their employees. Now in the context of prevention. The Ministry of Labour through the Labour Inspectorate intensifies its interventions in both information and controls. Information is already being carried out in several municipalities in the country in cooperation with the Local Government agencies for the implementation and better compliance with the provisions of labour legislation on health and safety at work, while at the level of controls these checks have been intensified. You will allow me to give you some information to prove that in the last two and a half years there has been a proliferation of controls carried out by the Labour Inspectorate. In 2014, the Labour Inspectorate carried out 297 audits - always talking about the public administration and defence sector - on health and safety. In 2015 it carried out 427 checks. In other words, there is an increase of around 44% in the audits carried out by the Labour Inspectorate from 2014 to 2015. In 2016, the audits were at around the same level as in 2015, i.e. 416 audits and 40 complaints were filed during them, and in 2017, 299 audits have already been carried out in the first half of 2017. You see that in the first half of 2017 the Labour Inspectorate carried out more audits than had been carried out in 2014. However, the number of accidents continues to concern us. The fact is that there is a great lack of compliance with health and safety rules in the municipalities. I think that the most characteristic example is the audit carried out in June 2017 in the Municipality of Athens, the first municipality of the country and to which a lawsuit was filed by the Labour Inspectorate precisely, because the health and safety rules at work were not complied with. In my dentistry, I will mention the further initiatives that I take.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u116	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u117	Madam Minister, it is really important that the APRC has intensified preventive controls and I think that this will help to implement legislation very much and from the side of local government. The second thing I would like to point out is the obligation to use - I mean on the side of the municipalities - technical security services and work doctors. We think it is very important to ensure that these services operate at municipal level. Of course, it is highly questionable whether a large number of municipalities keep these services for workers and workers. We see that there is a lack of use and compliance with these services. The second, regarding compliance with the obligations on the part of municipalities, is the provision of personal protective equipment, which in many cases tend to be on paper. This is because the majority of the municipalities do not have the financial capacity to provide or invoke the lack of this financial capacity. There is also a lack of information and adequate training for workers in matters of safety and health. This is very encouraging, which you have started and made, with the conferences to inform the municipalities, because there is a great shortage of training for workers in these matters. And the last thing, I imagine, is that it is not your responsibility, but it is more about the Ministry of Interior and, therefore, the cooperation of the two ministries is very rightly needed, it is the maintenance of vehicles, machinery and compliance with the rules imposed on their safe driving. I believe that the understanding of the responsibility for the implementation of the legislative framework by municipalities, the support as you mentioned above, and the application of the health and safety rules by both workers and workers in the framework of a fruitful and effective cooperation, are factors which will contribute effectively so that we can deal with or minimise accidents at work and even fatal accidents at work. I think that the cooperation between the two ministries will also bring results and therefore the measures you will communicate will help us so that we too can contribute. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u118	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u119	I shall begin with what you mentioned, namely the obligation to have technical security and occupational doctor services. Already, since the beginning of the year, the Labour Inspectorate has sent documents to all municipalities and informs them of their three main obligations. Firstly, that there must be a written professional risk assessment and, thirdly, that personal protective equipment must be provided and that proper use must be supervised. This is about the Labour Inspectorate. In particular, for personal protection, I would just once again point out that the beneficiaries of personal protection are all workers with any relationship between work and work in the municipality, in the public or private sectors, since they are employed in work which is by nature unhealthy or dangerous, such as cleaning, landfills, etc. In view of this need to provide personal protective equipment, in 2017 by the law passed, Law 4483, provided, first of all, that it was not possible to assess the means of personal protection in cash, because in the past it was a constant practice not to grant the means of personal protection in kind and to be valued in money. Secondly, there was the possibility of imposing administrative sanctions, that is, fines, on local authorities, when, after the relevant checks by the Labour Inspectorate, there was a breach, which was not the case in the past. Thirdly, precisely because it is noted by the audits that most and most serious accidents in local authorities occur from the fall of workers from wastewater vehicles, we are overall revising the standard for the operation of wastewater vehicles. At the moment this procedure is under way. Also, because we found that a large number of workers in local authorities in 2015 and 2016 were employed through public works programmes, so it was extremely likely that an employee would not have the necessary knowledge or training in order to be able to carry out this work, with a ministerial decision that we adopted, we made it clear that it is not possible to engage in the work that requires this expertise and experience of workers through public programmes. And even more clearly, it is not possible for them to be entrusted with the collection of waste in wastewater vehicles. With regard to information and information, I think it is important that this national focal pole contributes to information and documentation. In this context, an annual programme is currently being implemented for information on health and safety issues at work and a series of actions, advice, awareness-raising, etc. is being carried out, especially at local level. Last - and I think perhaps more important is the national strategy on health and safety, which was adopted yesterday by a ministerial decision I signed, which provides for a set of health and safety actions at work. Amongst other things, especially on the issue we are discussing, it provides for the creation of internal structures for health and safety at work in every Ministry, to every legal person governed by public law, to each local authority. I think that through all of these actions - about eight, if I am not mistaken - we will really be able to give a real solution to the problem of accidents at work.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u120	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how the House operates, thirty-five students and students and two educational attendants from the 5th Amarousio High School (Second Chamber). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We continue with the second with number 91/17-10-2017 topical question of the Second Senate of the New Democracy MP Mr. Fotinis Arabatzis to the Minister of Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Restoration of the income loss of Saronic fishermen". My colleague, you have two minutes to develop your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u121	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, in addition to the enormous environmental burden, the destruction suffered by the fishermen of the Saronic Sea after the shipwreck of "Agia ZONI II" is undeniable and their income loss is certainly given. So this despair, Mr Mitsotakis, was described to us in the most vague way, when on 21 September with the Chief of Staff, Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, we visited them at the fish auction in Keratini, the coastal fishermen, the amateurs, of course the representatives of the middle fishing industry. So we were told, Mr Minister, about the absolute collapse of their incomes, up to - and according to their statements - 80%, as the confusion of the consumer and the clear lack of information about whether the catches are suitable or not in terms of the co-responsibility of the ministries and the relevant agencies was functioning horizontally. You, Minister, have taken sixteen whole days after this sad event to meet with them and to do so - to allow me to say the press releases that they issued - to vague promises of their income recovery. And today, a month and nine days after the shipwreck, the issue of course is not at the forefront of the news, but the problem continues. Speaking yesterday with them, their income loss continues to reach 50% of the fishermen, but also of all the associated sectors, fish shops, catering shops, producers selling on the people's markets, at the same time, of course, when, apart from maintaining their livelihood and meeting their obligations, insurance, taxation and all the relevant ones, they continue to live properly. At the same time, we must say that, from 1 October, the fishing industry in the middle of fishing, which you may say is not affected, because they fish at one and a half mile, of course, the experts must consult them, but the lack, I repeat, of official information on the suitability or non-existence of catches continues to affect them. As you can see, Minister, the prohibition on fishing or not, apart from public health, is directly linked to the compensation of fishermen. So because everyone really expects the findings of PPEH, I ask you: What exactly does the PPEH have to study? What does his contract say? When did the investigations begin and when will the finding be delivered? And what action have you taken at European Union level in order to claim necessary funds for the income recovery of fishermen?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u122	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u123	First of all, let me say that we are going to do what we have to do and the time we have to. And I say this because from the outset, in order to be able to cope with the consequences of an accident which was very serious, we have tried as much as possible to coordinate all the services, to plan all controls on shells and aquaculture fish and collectors' fish. We still have to carry out local checks to date and inform everyone who is active in the region. To date, checks have shown that catches of keratsini fish have no problem. There's no problem. We repeat this all the time. I must point out, however, once again that the coastal fishermen in the region themselves on their own initiative have stopped and still do not fish in this area until now. There is therefore no effect on catch health. So we immediately met the professional fishermen in the wider area, informed them and informed them of the actions of the Ministry. At the same time, of course, the necessary measures have also been taken for us, I would say, to meet - and the fishermen' s representatives have met - with the co-responsible ministries, the emergency financial aid and the transfer of commitments. You understand that it's not our responsibility. At the same time, however, we will help them in particular to establish a dossier which will have the losses to their incomes to claim both on the safety of the ship and, of course, on the International Fund, because there will indeed be evidence of the payment of compensation there. We have also examined the possibility of compensation for fishermen from the 2014-2020 Operational Fisheries Programme. Under Rule 33 of the Rules of Procedure there is the possibility of temporary cessation of fishing activities, as is the case in this case, so that there is a first compensation. We have already informed the European Commission of this and that we are following the impact with the PPE, as, of course, we also have in front of us the possibility of triggering Article 12, which concerns measures by the committee in the event of a serious threat to marine biological resources. At the same time, of course, as part of the Operational Fisheries Programme and in cooperation with fishermen, we want to establish the mutual fund. This fund is provided for in Rule 35 of the Rules of Procedure and for which the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund may contribute up to 10 million. However, the operation of this mutual fund also presupposes the financial contribution of the fishermen. That is why we are waiting for the resolution of the trade union bill to be completed - because we have another problem in this area, there is no representation - to be able to reach agreement with the fishermen to take these necessary initiatives to establish the fund together. It should also be noted that this fund also requires the participation of the fishermen themselves. Finally, as far as the investigations are concerned, they continue from the point of view of PPE. In addition to the letters, we are waiting, because it has taken stock of the impact of the oil spill on the region, its impact on the next action.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u124	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mrs. Arapatzis, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u125	Minister, you said that you continued to inform everyone about the matter and that there is official information. With regard to this official information, is there any document that you can show us that so far so far the so-called catches are absolutely safe? No one really wants to question it. At the same time, however, Minister, the fishermen, the fishermen, are officially saying uninformed, as are the consumer, so that even if we all wish - which we all wish - the fish are absolutely safe, this does not translate into a normal commercial activity, because the world continues to avoid being confused. You also said that you have taken all the steps you had to take. I would like to ask as I closed my prototype, Minister: at European Union level, what have you done officially and in writing? Yesterday, the President of the New Democracy met with the majority of European Commissioners, including the Commissioner for Environment and Fisheries, Mr Karmen Vella, in order to demonstrate the interest of our country, because we are talking about our country, Minister, about the income support for these people and all those affected by this disaster. What have you done in this direction? You keep talking about Article 33. I will tell you about Article 35 and the possibilities offered by ESDP 2014-2020, Minister, which says that compensation is provided for fishermen in respect of losses due to adverse weather events or environmental incidents, as well as in cases of maritime accidents. However, a prerequisite, Minister, set out in the regulation you have invoked, is the official authority, by the State, to recognise these facts. The conditions for setting up the fund you have invoked, the mutual fund, where you said that trade union representation, for the fishermen's contribution, are subject to the decisions of the Member State. You, in other words, decide on this mutual fund, whether to contribute, how it will be formed. I ask: have you set up this fund, Minister? How will compensation be received? I'll talk a little bit about good practice. We are not the only ones who have suffered such disasters, Minister. In 2002, Spain, with its black tide and its shipwreck 'PRESTIGE', succeeded in a month and had something to distract from the European Commission EUR 117,000,000 with this article - I will present it in the Minutes - in time - a record, that is to say, as long as we have done so far and we still have no findings. They have run all the necessary steps. It is also provided for in Article 41 and Article 50, as the Portuguese have done, for the redirection of the budget in the event of fires. This is also a tool you can use. Minister, the Spanish as far as the solidarity fund, which does not normally provide for compensation for such incidents, have managed to put it into effect and have taken another EUR 8 600 000 - I will also present this in the Minutes - and a whole lot of other funds. The question is, in particular, what we are doing for all of this. Don't tell me, Minister, about the 2014-2020 PSF, when the rate of absorption is 0.74% of our country, with the Community average at 12%. And you're making proud press releases that after two and a half years you completed the preparatory acts - your Ministry's press release is - to declare the measures? Really, Minister? Two and a half years later? You said about Article 35, Mr Minister, to which I have certainly referred, which the Spaniards have used, that there are 10,000 000 euros. Minister, here I have the amendment with your own signature of the 2014-2020 PSAC for this, that 10,000,000 with your own modification, you did it to 2,000,000. Is this true or isn't it? Ten are the millions, or two? I would like an answer for that too. So tell us about these issues, Mr Minister, even 'and five'. First of all, I expect an answer as to when the investigations of the PPEB started and who is signing this contract. What are you going to do for the frozen Community resources, for the loss of income of these affected fishermen and, of course, for restoring the balance of the marine environment and the wider area also provided by the specific articles of the 2014-2020 regulation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u126	Thank you, Mrs. Arabaji. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u127	My colleague, I told you that we were doing the things we should do the time we have to. The trade union representation of fishermen is not institutionalised. On our own initiative, we have gathered the fishermen in the region and a temporary committee was set up with which we are essentially dealing with and informing them. Secondly, I told you that we sent a specific letter to DG AGRI, which we informed immediately that we have this incident, that we have a oil leak. At the same time, we tell them that the most scientific body in our country has already been entrusted with the study and, of course, the impact of the extension, to where it has gone. When does this procedure come to an end? We expect and know that every day we are almost annoyed to have a final conclusion from ERCE, on which we will touch to document the file we tell them here in the letter that we will activate this article and of course in collaboration with ERCE. Let us make this clear, because we cannot haunt dossiers without a specific technical approach. Since you have again referred to Article 35 and until it has been amended etc., Article 35 of the operational programme provides for up to EUR 10 million. I repeat that it also requires funds, contributions from fishermen. Did the fishermen put 2 million? But so much is being done on the other hand by this fund. And because there is no trade union representation, we have been dealing with this process for a long time, especially beginning the implementation of the ESDP. At the moment, we need to get rid of all the other possibilities. We have the safety of the ship. We have the International Fund, where we have Article 33 there. Of course, all this, as I told you, is on our goal. We're looking at the substance. We are always trying to find sustainable, practicable solutions, because there are many problems in the primary sector, particularly the fishermen. This process must therefore be understood that, if it does not have a scientific documentation on its path, then we will find ourselves in making communication games, sending files, asking for it, etc. And when the time passes, we'll be looking to find out why these requests were not accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u128	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We continue with the sixth question under number 81/16-10-2017 of the second-round question of the Parliamentary Carditsa of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Chrysula Katsavria - Siropoulou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Promoting and supporting collective production schemes". My colleague, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u129	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, just a week ago the 4th Development Conference of the Region of Thessaly was completed. At the conference it was found in the most fascinating way that the country is turning a page and Thessaly plays a leading role in rural and livestock development. The need to change the production model is now commonplace, in order to ensure that growth develops at the same time as sustainable and social justice and on the other hand to prevent the reappearance of the pathogenesis that led to the rural economy and producers at the known deadlocks. The two most important pathogens of the past, which have been pointed out to the attention of all stakeholders in the rural economy, were the distorting scheme of subsidies and incentives as well as the way in which cooperatives operate. The law on cooperatives and groups - producer organisations has recently been passed. Measure 9 of the ESDP concerning the setting-up of producer organisations provides financial support for the first five years of their operation. At the same time, producers may combine this measure with other measures, such as Measure 1, concerning the transfer of knowledge and vocational training, Measure 3 on quality systems, and measure 16 on the cooperation of integration into operational groups. We therefore believe that producer groups and collective schemes will be the new model in the production process. Through these collective schemes we expect to solve some chronic weaknesses of Greek agriculture, such as the small lot, the high cost of production, the shortcomings in organization and cooperation, the upgrading of the quality of the product produced, the increase in the negotiating capacity through the creation of critical product mass and harmonisation in the requirements of the markets. Farmers will thus be able to intervene more forcefully not only in the direction of the production process, but also in the promotion of products on the markets, in order to have a more direct relationship with consumers. Minister, producer groups are an opportunity to overcome chronic weaknesses and modernise Greek agriculture. This is certainly directly linked to improving the producer's income and social position. So I ask you: How is it ensured that measures of the ADP relating to collective schemes are implemented so that they lead to a better organisation of production, to help the producer and to strengthen competitiveness, without only making financial support measures? Given that cotton for my region, Karditsa, Thessaly and Greece in general is a dominant product, how will this measure be used for the collective shapes of producers to support the sustainability of the crop, which is now marginal?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u130	Thank you, my colleague. Come on, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u131	Madam President, I think we agree that co-operation is a necessity that we need to serve for the operation of the rural area. In particular, the support and setting-up of producer groups and organisations for this purpose are institutionalised, precisely for what you said the space needed. Support provided to producer groups and organisations, which are of course recognised on the basis of a business plan with five-year objectives, controlled by the Member States. That is what this Article 9 refers to. So we absolutely need to see how these collective schemes by the end of the year will have been subjected to the evaluation process by the Ministry's supervisory authority, so that they can walk. At the end of this process, of course, they will also remain those who are able to serve the strategies that we want to serve, because that is a requirement for the European Commission. So, with these healthy shapes to emerge, they will seek to include farmers in the Rural Development Programme, strengthen their competitiveness and ultimately support their income, without fear of losing these aids without result. Also, with Measure 9, which is an incentive measure to encourage development, cooperation and organisation in collective schemes, we are launching a series of new cooperative schemes. Therefore, beneficiaries should know that, in order to achieve the financial support, which speaks of five-year operating costs and up to EUR 100,000, they should definitely have a specific business plan. With regard to cotton, the interprofessional organisation recognised has set the objective of upgrading the quality of the product concerned, adapting to new market requirements, extending it to a culture of integrated management. Despite the difficulties that will arise in implementing this measure, because it is a product that, particularly for our country and much more for the region of Thessaly, is a product that we want to support, we will be with them. We will also have cooperation not only from the farmers, but also from the ginners, but also from all those who, I would say, are related to the Inter-professional Organisation of cotton.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u132	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr Colleague, before you take the floor for your denunciation, I would like to make two announcements. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to keep in mind that the Intergroup Parliamentary Committee on Population, set up in accordance with Rules 44 and 45 of the Rules of Procedure and for which Parliament's plenary has set a deadline for submitting its report on 31 October 2017, calls for a three-month extension of its operation until 31 January 2018. Does this House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u133	So the House unanimously agreed. I would also like to take note of this House that the Committee of Inquiry into the investigation of scandals in the field of health in the years 1997-2014, set up in accordance with Articles 144 et seq. the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament and for which the plenary of the Parliament has set a deadline for the submission of its findings on 21 October 2017, shall request a three-month extension of its operation until 21 January 2018. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u134	So the House unanimously agreed. Here, Mrs Katsavria, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u135	Thank you. Mr President, Minister, the first step has been taken. In other words, the framework for cooperatives and producer groups has been established. We note, however, that there are many problems which make it difficult for these schemes to function and survive. Such problems in their overall form are management problems, the difficulty in managing the product produced, the use of new technologies and the promotion of the product produced on the markets in a measurable quantitative and qualitative mass. All of this is difficult and often incomprehensible, at least at the moment, to the majority of their producers and organisations, in order to resolve them on their own. On the other hand, your Ministry oversees organisations such as "ELGO - DIMITRA", research centres such as the Institute for Variety Controls, while working with other research centres such as Benacio. At this point I would like to point out the functioning of two research bodies based in Carditsa, the National Centre for cotton and the Centre for Animal Genetic Improvement. Both research centres offer extremely important services to both the Ministry of Rural Development and the cotton farmers concerned, respectively. But they also need the necessary staff. In fact, Mr Minister, there is also the question of whether there is a project to make use of and direct these institutes and bodies with a specific plan to respond to the need for support from producer groups in the areas mentioned above. I ask, because I am convinced that without the support of producer groups from structures belonging to or supervised by your Ministry, as well as from universities and from the TEIs, we will not have the expected effect in a short time. Let me also add, in addition to the previous ones, to the concerns of farmers themselves about the legal status of producer groups that are trying to set up, their capacity for full legal capacity, the return of tax registers, their tax treatment and a number of other practical issues relating to the rational and well-functioning of producer groups, in line with the philosophy of the Rural Development Programme. These are concerns which our farmers are putting before us almost every day in the contacts we have with them. I believe, Minister, that we must immediately cover any weaknesses which have been identified and in any case unfold a campaign for effective and valid information for our farmers on the collective patterns of their organization. In this way, I think we will soon achieve the best possible results, namely sustainable cooperative schemes for the benefit of the rural economy and, of course, of the producers themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u136	Thank you, Mr President. Here, Mr Minister, you have the floor for three minutes and we have to close today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u137	So since we agree on the need for these schemes to function, we must clarify one thing: these schemes, the producer organisations that want to benefit from this measure, must put forward an operational plan in which all needs will be described in the way in which they can be implemented. We're right next to them. We are already completing the relevant ministerial decision and today or tomorrow all the details are made public, particularly as regards their legal status. Because it is completely different for these producer groups that want to benefit from this measure and completely different for the producer groups which can be set up in another way. For example, five in animal production, ten in planting, create a group of producers, wanting to support their products. This is the key link of their connection. So we will try to be as close as possible to them. The specific centres you mentioned are centres that we absolutely want to continue to operate on the site. We have specific measures in innovation, in research, and we will see how farmers can benefit as much as possible, especially through the absorption of programmes through ELGO - DIMITA, so that they can have equivalent resources to meet needs. The issue of staff is a huge issue, as you know. The deficits at the Ministry are at all levels. We're trying to do that. We are soon announcing the measure concerning agricultural advisers. It will be a great breath, because about a thousand scientists in the space in three hundred and fifty structures throughout Greece will do what is missing from the region. In other words, there is a lack of geotechnical applications to give advice as close as possible to farmers. Of course, having the Rural Development Programme with too many measures and actions, we will in fact be able to serve what you and we have as a goal, the productive reconstruction of the country, with a more important reference to rural activity.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u138	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The debate on the topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-19-S1-commons.u139	With the consent of the House at 12.40 hours the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday 20 October 2017, at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of the House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, discussion of current questions.
