ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 28-4-2017, the minutes of its RIG's meetings of Friday, 28 April 2017, with regard to the vote on the whole draft law: ‘Procedural mechanism for the settlement of debts and other provisions’.]] I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent question report on Thursday, 4 May 2017. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question under number 775/28-4-2017 by MP Achaias of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Andreas Rizoulis to the Minister of Health, on the completion of the 3(a)/OCT 10447/26-10-2012 for zero participation in medicines and consumables in patients with end-stage heart failure and a disability rate equal to or greater than 80%. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No 771-27-4/2017 of the Greek Parliamentary 2 Athens, New Democracy, Catherine Papakostas - Ironopoulou, Minister for Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, on security in parcels. 3. PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Health, on the need for the staffing and operation of the Multi-purpose Regional Medical Lindos. 4. The question asked by MP II of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Panagiotarou to the Minister of Finance about the performance of the Olympic Games. 5. The question asked by MP I of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Ioannis Delis, Minister for Rural Development and Food, about the compensation of the tree farmers of the Pellis Regional Unit for damages suffered by their farmers from the frost in the three days 20-22 of April. 6. The question of the privatisation of the Greek Vehicle Industry (EL.B.O.) of the Greek Parliamentary I Thessaloniki, Mr. Ioannis Saridis, Mr. Ioannis Saridis, Mr. Saridis, Mr. Saridis, Mr. 773-27-4-2017.). B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Nikolaos Igoumenidis to the Minister of Finance about the restoration of the regulation (lateral and non-currency) of debts of the DIFI Heraklion for the proper operation of the municipal water company. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No 772-27-4/2017 of the Member of Parliament of the Republic of New Democracy, Isona Fotilla, to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, about the immediate need to build the commercial port of Patras. 3. The question asked by MP Laris of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Konstantinos Bargiotas to the Minister of Health, on "inapplicable anti-smoking law". 4. The 584/13-2017 topical question by MP Kilkis of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Hadjisavvas to the Minister of Finance about the irrational divestment of the profitable “Egnatia Road S.A.”. 5. The Question by MP Kilkis of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Hadjisavvas to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Is the national economy ready for a possible collapse of the euro area?". 6. Mr Eleni Zaroulia, Minister for Finance, on the appointment of a judge to the administration of the Supreme Council for Primary Immunities. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The question under number 707/10-4-2017 by MP I Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition Alexandros Triantafylides to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "First Camp Kordas: Showing the area in an ultra-local park". 8. The question raised by Mr Ilias Panayotarou, Member of the Association of the People's Association, Mr Ilias Panagiotaras, Minister for Finance, concerning legislation to extend approved expenses beyond hospitals. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Pellis of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Theodoras Tsakris to the Minister for Rural Development and Food regarding the inclusion of as many applicants as possible in the programme of young farmers without a reduction in the amount of aid, etc. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by number 4416/22-2017 of the Athens Parliamentary of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Helen Zaroulia to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "The right to vote and to vote by Greek residents abroad." Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy: "Following the International Convention on Control and Management of Project and sediment from Ships, 2004 and other provisions". I have the honour to announce to the House that the Ministers of National Defence, Economics, Foreign Affairs, Economy and Development and Justice, Transparency and Human Rights have tabled a draft law on 28-4-2017: "Strengthening the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of Norway, on cooperation in the field of defence equipment, systems and services". At the same time, a late amendment was tabled by Mr Lazaridis, which you must take into account, Minister. Mr. Curublis, do you have her in mind?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u2	I am aware of it, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u3	Are you accepting her?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u4	No, I'll talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u5	You'll talk very nice.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u6	'No' has he said, Mr President, or 'I will speak'? It matters.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u7	When he's given the floor, he'll announce it. The draft law we are debating today was adopted by a majority vote in the Standing Committee. It is introduced to the House in accordance with the procedure laid down in Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure, namely those who object to the ratification of this agreement. So the objections are essentially the Communist Party of Greece and the Golden Dawn that expressed a reservation. For all the rest of the parties. First of all - in the order of the parties - Mr Kouzilos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u8	We will also speak, Mr President, as Parliamentary Representatives.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u9	Here, Mr. Kouzeli, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u10	We had reservations about the fact that there was an end to the bill's title and the phrase 'and other provisions'. That put us in a thought, because we usually see that we have an amendment storm. That is why we made a reservation. Limits are hereby laid down and procedures and technologies are introduced for the processing of the shearing of ships. In fact, there will be an incorporation into the international convention for the prevention of pollution, in which we are not, of course, opposed. But here, we need to see a little - and in this we have not received any answers from the Ministers - this is what we stood up for and said a little about the Poseidon 2016. The exhibitors were sixty companies that advertised the new technology. In 2012, the International Maritime Organisation and the International Chamber of Shipping had a counterweight to the period of application of this convention, and the whole thing was about the chaos that will be caused to the shipyards. We're talking about sixty with seventy thousand ships. Where do we want to end up? Here we have a simple question: is there a care, a plan, so that we too can have a piece of this pie, of the sixty and seventy thousand ships? And because we will soon have the "Poseidonia 2017", see if there will be the same interest in our country again. Of course, it is a positive step for the protection of the marine environment and for Greek commercial shipping. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, too. Mr. Synatiakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u12	How much time do I have, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u13	Five minutes. Everyone has five minutes in the Rules of Procedure, both the MPs and the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. I think that the committee was given the opportunity to present the opinion of the Communist Party in relation to the question of the management of the marine ballast of ships. For the Communist Party, this convention does not deal with this problem and therefore this draft law also applies. And we explained the reasons. The most important of them are that this system of management of marine project costs too high. The committee has been told that it is over 100 billion for seventy thousand ships. So it is incomprehensible to place it on old and smaller ships. Vessel owners therefore prefer to withdraw and invest in ships of larger size. This is precisely the hypocritical nature of the contract for the alleged protection of the marine subsystem. Investments in the market for larger and more modern ships are irrelevant from the implementation of the contract. It forms part of competition in the maritime sector worldwide, the aim of Greek shipowners for a leading role in the transport of energy raw materials. The Greek shipowners know that they are pioneers in investment and profits, of course, by stepping on the work rights of seafarers. In fact, only in the first two months of 2017 have invested more than $1 billion, and have acquired sixty ships. In fact, with the incorporation of the contract into Greek legislation, a bureaucratic mechanism is being created to cover maritime pollution, with the owners themselves and the discharge of their ships from extra costs. Also, in the face of the pursuit of maximum profit, there is no obstacle to the contract. And that is why this nature of the contract is also hypocritical. The operation of ships on the basis of the profitability of their shipowners actually makes an empty letter of any provisions of the contract empty. The contract moves to the well-known Euro-Union polluter-pays authority, providing fines for pollution via ballast. But the anticipated fines are at least funny. In practice, the polluter pays it, and the polluter gets away with it. The EUR 60,000 fine is equivalent to minimum-day fares, while environmental damage from the liberalisation of a foreign organisation can cause tens of millions of damage, particularly in the Mediterranean, and especially in the Aegean, which is particularly burdensome. The draft law reaffirms the provisions of the known Naval Law of 1973 on the allocation of inspection rights to large organisations, essentially by privatising inspections. There is, however, the experience of the Greek classification societies in the past - a branch of shipowners - who did not give a damn about the safety of human life at sea. And the proof is the macabre list of maritime accidents, such as the "TERST", the shipwreck of the "SEA DIAMOND" and the "SAMIN EVENT". And the Greek classification society was transformed from a non-profit-making company to a company that aims to make maximum profits, not to mention the main task it had to perform. And there are at the expense of sentenced shipwrecks, complaints of virtual checks, false certificates of airworthiness, auditors and audited persons and hundreds of pages of investigation. For the JRC, ladies and gentlemen, a public Greek classificationian is required with social control, linked to research and shipbuilding, ensuring its airworthiness and reliability, safety of human life at sea and environmental protection. And an essential tool to promote maritime policy is the creation of a public single maritime organisation within the framework of a state single transport operator, which will incorporate maritime vessels. There was also a lot of talk of the ship repair activity or rather of ship repair entrepreneurship. I want to stress that all together - SYRIZA, New Democracy, PASOK and the Fascist Golden Dawn - appear to be concerned and concerned about the recovery of the shipbuilding industry and to ask how the big businessmen, owned by the shipyards and the zone will be strengthened. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] A little more, Mr President. They are trying to hide that the shrinking of the shipbuilding industry is the result of the capitalist development path, the country's membership of the European Union and given that Greece is a country where shipowners boast that they hold the first fleet capacity worldwide. They are trying to hide the particular responsibilities which each party has over time in supporting this road and the specific policy that they pursued in the shipbuilding sector. The current government, of course, sees ship repair as a side-effect of 'COSCO', as part of the strategic pursuits of shipowners and business groups in fuel. For her, she's planning on the investments. After all, Mr Kurublis, the Minister for Maritime Affairs, told us in committee last week. Its decline is not, of course, due to mismanagement or omissions, selfish choices, complexity, corruption or hatred. All of this, of course, is the derivatives of a specific policy. The shipyards close the Euro-Union strategy, including privatisation of shipyards, port infrastructure and land use change. And today the Scaramaga shipyards are closed, Elefsina phytosanitary, Chalkida and Neorio have become carnajas. And there's no hammer in these shipyards.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u15	Please, Mr. Synatiakis, you're finishing.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u16	At the same time, Greek shipowners are proving to be the best customers of the Chinese and South Korean shipyards. This contradiction is a glimpse, Mr President. The Greek-owned fleet is one of the best in the world. The country needs new boats for the ferry, but they need maintenance and the already existing ones. However, the ship repair is constantly shrinking. For the JRC, a one-way road is the abolition of the profit criterion, a radically different development path, with the socialised means of production, including ports, ships and all other functions, and in this context the shipbuilding industry in our country will also operate. As a result, and with all the above, we are voting against the international convention and the draft law that has been tabled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, too. Minister, you want to take the floor. You have five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u18	Mr President, with the ratification of the Greek Parliament today, an additional framework of rules within the framework of the IMO, the International Maritime Organisation, is being introduced, and the country is the fifty-fifth country, which ratifys such a convention, precisely by creating this necessary institutional framework, in order to protect the environment, in particular. Ladies and gentlemen, the Mediterranean is a closed sea, which is directly affected by climate change in the wider region, so a sea that needs to be immediately cared for and cared for all of us either at an individual level yet, how we behave as human beings or as a state. At the moment we are introducing an institutional framework which obliges and lays rules. I have heard sincerely that this favours the shipowners. But all this system that must be invested on board the ships will be burdened by the shipowners. It has nothing to do with seafarers' industrial relations or other facilities. This can help very much the development of areas which are dealing with the ship repair zone, because these systems are modern systems, which can cost up to a million, depending on the size of the ship, so it is a possibility to create an incentive to develop activity in the ship repair zone. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to say that, with this new institutional framework, measures are being taken to protect the ecological environment, as they contribute to social development, because they protect people themselves from various transportable microbes, which affect areas where marine ballast falls, and therefore dangerous situations arise for the beaches and ports. That is why the new institutional framework that we are introducing today can really hamper this kind of dangerous situation. A number of topics were heard on the ship repair zone and on the 'COSCO'. By voting for the law referred to in the contract with ‘COSCO’, the Government has included certain provisions on the obligations of ‘COSCO’ in respect of the ship repair zone. ‘COSCO’ is therefore committed to repairing the tanks received from the old PPA and to install a large eighty thousand tons and a next one, which will be about three hundred to thirty-five thousand tonnes. This alone creates important conditions for the development of a sector that has played a decisive role in Greece in the previous years. But you know very well that in the last ten years there have been situations that have actually brought back the development of this sector, which has fuelled the region to jobs and to professional activities. So today, the government is starting a new attempt on the ship repair zone, calling on COSCO to implement its commitments as a priority - and this is precisely what I have stressed - but also by trying to release Scaramaga from the commitments made by the so-called 'State subsidies'. At the same time, he is trying to create conditions of development at the shipyard of Elefsina and in Neorio. We therefore believe that today's ratification enables Greece to be another country within the framework of the IMO, which recognises the need to adopt these international rules in order to become national law and to protect our seas. For us, blue development is a very critical sector, which will contribute to the development of the country, because it is linked to tourism, fishing, the development of ports and the protection of the environment. All this together, therefore, creates a framework for economic activities, which is protected by the presence in the law of the country of such rules that we are introducing today. After that, I think the reasons relating to objections submitted by colleagues in the House are missing. I think it would be useful to rethink their position, because I do not think that nothing else is hidden in this convention, rather than the protection of the environment, which is an obligation that we must have in absolute priority, both as a state and as a society and as a person. From there on, I stress again that there is no charge on anyone. As far as these systems are concerned, the burden is on ship owners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u19	Minister, would you like to say something about the amendment?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u20	Mr President, I have not studied the amendment. It's pretty complicated. I would like to ask the honourable Member, whom I love and appreciate, not to go through it today, but to another bill, which may also be of the Ministry. Soon a bill comes that can be more relevant and can be re-issued. But right now, I'm not ready. I haven't studied her.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u21	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u22	Mr President, could I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u23	Please, Mr. Athanasios, what would you like?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u24	Mr President, in view of the fact that the bill does not introduce ratification of the international convention by an article, but has other articles - second to twelfth - which are the provisions of the Convention, I would like to ask you, because we have not been given the opportunity to invite the committee to open a list of speakers here so that our views can be heard.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u25	Mr. Athanasios, the problem, as you know, as a distinguished legal officer...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u26	I know the procedure, Mr President, but it is in the Bureau's power.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u27	...is that he comes to a debate with Article 108, which is restrictive in the process. I personally have no objections, but Article 108 does not provide for such a procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u28	I think Mr. Kurublis would have agreed to testify...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u29	It must be all Parliament's wings, because Rule 108 does not provide for such a procedure. I am obliged, Minister, to apply the procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u30	But, Mr President, because these provisions are not annulled, they are an intrinsic one, if the Minister wishes, the House can decide to open a list. So there is no prohibition. In addition, Mr President, this bill says 'and other provisions'.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u31	Mr President, if you will allow me, I want the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u32	You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u33	I would like to say to the honourable Minister, Mr Athanasios, that in the House this famous consultation has not taken place, which you refer to, but consultation on this ratification has been made with the institutions. We also have documents from the Greek Shipowners and all, which advocate the need - and it is good that they are pleading, even though it will cost them - for these rules to be adopted. For us who are a Mediterranean country, we need more provision immediately than all of us, for what we are talking about, namely environmental protection. The Committee has heard the remarks. From there on, I do not think there is any question at the moment of continuing this debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u34	Mr Pallie, you are SYRIZA's rapporteur, do you agree to apply Article 108?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u35	We agree, Mr President. We believe that the procedure should be progressed properly, as it had started.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u36	Yes, sir. I get it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u37	Mr President, what the Minister said has nothing to do with it, because the House does not match the government. Whether the government consulted the agencies is a matter of its own. But the House has a duty to legislate properly to listen to the agencies. We had questions and questions to the bodies that were not invited. After all, we do not know which bodies the government consulted. For the bill - I recall - it is not dry to introduce, in accordance with Article 28 of the Constitution, as ratification of a convention, but has other provisions. The other provisions are regulatory provisions which introduce regulations on how the basic provision referred to in Article 1. Therefore, there was no proper debate in committee under the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution. Secondly, there is no, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, urgency, because this convention will start to work as early as September 2017. So what's the urgency?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u38	Mr President, I too would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u39	I'm sorry, Mr. Loverdo, just a minute. Perhaps these issues, Mr Athanasios, should have been raised in committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u40	They were set, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u41	They've been put on the board. Look at the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u42	But, as you know, Article 108 comes in. I read Rule 108 to you: "Legislations and draft laws, which were unanimously accepted or by a majority of four fifths (4/5) of the total number of members of the competent standing committee, shall be passed by the House without debate, with the appropriate application of Rule 1 of the paragraph. 1 of this Article’. And Rule 1 says: "In a meeting and before the start of the debate on the items on the agenda, Parliament may vote in principle, in principle, in the whole bills or draft laws without debate. If objections are raised, the President shall invite the Member or the Members who have raised them to take the floor.". It's clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u43	Mr President, it says unanimously or four-fifths. It's a marginal majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u44	Let me finish. As long as he arrives with 108 in the House, I will ask the parties a question if a majority agrees to divert from 108.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u45	I'm sorry, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u46	It's no different, Mr. Athanasios.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u47	Article 108 - do not look at the majorities it says - it has increased majorities. This decision has been taken marginally.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u48	Agreed, but I'm obliged to implement 108.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u49	Good! Let the House decide.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u50	Mr Pallis, the SYRIZA rapporteur, if he wishes to take the floor on this issue, namely whether we are going to apply the procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u51	Mr President, at the beginning of the procedure and you mentioned the parties that voted in favour of the bill. I therefore consider the majority to be covered. I also hear Mr Athanasios' objections. We are not discussing his vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u52	So, by a majority, I accept your request.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u53	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u54	Mr Loverdo, after that, do not refer to this matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u55	Look, Mr. President. We have guaranteed - as you know, but also other Presidents - the ratification procedures, because there are sometimes amendments made by the government, sometimes by Members of Parliament, that we can speak, not always by opening up a list - but, in any case, if there is a limited number of Members who want to speak and certainly the parliamentary representatives, give the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u56	That's what's going on.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u57	Please. Let me finish my thoughts.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u58	I am sorry, but the one who speaks under the Rules of Procedure, and the Member is developing his objection and has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u59	Listen, Mr. President. Apart from that, it has been guaranteed in these procedures for parties to take the floor with the parliamentary representatives, but also for anyone who has something to say. Since some President-in-Office does not accept this without objection, we have resorted to the practice - and we will do so this afternoon, since we see that today the Bureau is changing its position - to make a reservation, despite the fact that we agree with the conventions proposed for ratification. So this afternoon, when we have a Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence at 3 p.m., we will reserve our right to the plenary to speak both with the rapporteur and with the parliamentary representative. In order to avoid all this, the President-in-Office, despite the fact that Rule 108 certainly states what you are saying - and you are absolutely right - they are holding a stand against at least the parliamentary representatives. I would also ask you to speak for two minutes, since plenary is open, to say two things that our group wants to hear about Mr Lazarides' amendment, but also to make a more general political position. I therefore accept, Mr President, what you are saying and ask you to speak for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u60	So, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Members of Parliament will have the floor. And as far as you say, I at least accept it. So the parliamentary representatives will have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u61	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, I would like to express my sympathy with what Mr Arvanitides said to the Standing Committee on the Convention. Secondly, I would like to say to the Minister, but also to the Secretary-General who is here, that they take careful note of the amendment by Mr Lazarides, which deals with companies affected by force majeure, such as the various physical phenomena, weather conditions, etc., and without the same responsibility, have problems in carrying out the investment projects that they had undertaken. These companies, therefore, lose their investment projects, and thus start a series of hardships with regard to their responsibilities vis-à-vis the Greek State. The amendment is good and we could see it. So the government is now being told that there is this issue and we ask it to take the same legislative initiative or the Minister to tell the honourable Member when to retable the amendment, so that it can be voted on. Finally, Mr President, our general political reference to the present two members of the government here is as follows: we want to say today to the National Representation, whose main task is to ratify a convention, that during the Democratic Assent everything is paid for in this political life and, more generally, in this life. And so the course of things unmistakably brought the government to attack the rights of workers, the incomes and the quality of life of the workers. Nemesis, Mr President! Nemesis! Nemesis for SYRIZA! As far as those who support the government's choices are concerned, we have to say that the fifty-two Members will be their only Members who support this story.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u62	One hundred and fifty-three! You're wrong!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u63	There's not a hundred and fifty-three. Mr Tsakalotos will resign because he wears pants and said that if the tax is lower than EUR 9000, he would resign. It fell to EUR 8,800 and now that it has been taken on EUR 5,681, it has nothing to do with resignation.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u64	Please, Mr. Loverdo!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u65	Who says that? If that's possible! Mercy! Mr. Chakalot wears pants, but he'll be a hundred and fifty-three!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u66	Mr. Theonas, don't complain! Please! Finish, Mr. Loverdo, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u67	Mr President, you see that the National Representation when it operates in the field of its competences, but as a plenary, is not here to exhaust its role in bureaucratic political moves. When this sacred Chamber opens, the government comes here to hear the criticism of counterpopulation and to tell the views it has to say. Writing in politics is not meant! And if some of the majority feel their role as bureaucrats of politics carrying out their parliamentary obligations with this kind of terrain, they are making a very big mistake. The government here is judged and assessed every day. She's got her opinions and she's gonna tell them. Anyone who wants plenary to be open to talk about matters indifferent to the Greek people is being deceived, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u68	As far as we can see, the Minister did not reject the amendment. It was, however, reserved for it to be studied and placed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u69	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u70	Here, Mr Pallie, you have the floor for two minutes too, and I would ask you not to have a debate on personal matters, because this is not helping.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, Mr President. I'll be much shorter. The bureaucracy that the Democratic Association will show, Mr. Loverdos showed us earlier, saying in advance that he will retain a reservation on a bill that comes for bureaucratic reasons. On the substance, Mr President, I would ask that we proceed properly in the procedure as set out for the debate on the draft law, in order that those who object, express themselves, speak, speak, close and close the procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u72	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty-two students and students and three teachers from the private School of Xenopoulou. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Here, Mr. Dendia, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u73	I will keep the two minutes, Mr President. On the subject of the legislation under discussion, I am absolutely covered by the position taken by my colleague, the rapporteur for Officerial Representation, Mr Athanasios, and there is therefore no need to extend to that. As regards the amendment which the Minister has not accepted, I would like to say that its content is interesting. I would therefore suggest that there should be consultation on this content so that it can be introduced either as a government proposal or as a parliamentary, but - and I would ask you to do so - of constitutionality. We must not have what has been observed in previous amendments or Members' proposals. I now come to the main theme of the day, which cannot be ignored by the National Representation. As much as this is a very serious issue which is being introduced to debate today, we cannot ignore, ladies and gentlemen, what is the top issue for Greek society today and is the principle of reaching agreement between the government and the troika, what you want to call institutions. Mr President, there is one key issue here, an attempt not to be clean in the Greek society of what was agreed, an attempt to fog on what is immediately understood by the careful observer. And what do I mean? Measures of EUR 3.6 billion have been agreed, 2% of gross national product resulting from pension reductions and a reduction in tax. I can only recall - Mr Loverdos did so before - the promise of the Minister of Finance in this Chamber, in this House, that he will resign and will not bring about such arrangements. I therefore expect that what has been said to be respected. We are not a group of debaters, we are not a philosophical club, we are the Greek Parliament. Everyone has a responsibility for what he says, for what he promises, for what he commits, even though on that government majority, commitments have been made in this respect, and promises do not mean exactly the opposite. I would, however, like to warmly welcome the Government's efforts to create a fog on the subject of so-called favourable measures. It is clear from what has been said that favourable measures, countermeasures, if you like, - I do not know what the word countermeasures can hide - will only exist if we exceed 3.5% of the surplus. In fact, it is said that the International Monetary Fund is demanding 3.7% of all, it also requires room for error, 'buffer zone' now in modern terminology. I would like to say, therefore, that all these countermeasures belong to the sphere of absolutely fantastic, because there is no chance that the country, for a long time, will be able to produce such surpluses without bringing the entire Greek population together to create tax revenue.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u74	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u75	And I have something else to say, Mr President - and I am ending with this - that we have a huge responsibility to the government majority proposing these measures and agree to these measures. But we also attach responsibility to the troika, to the institutions, to the creditors of the country, because they impose, accept, agree measures, which are robbery for the Greek society and which, as the Budget Office rightly says, are unlikely to lead this economy to growth. With robbery raids on the pockets of the bourgeoisie and Greeks, growth is not created.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u76	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u77	Wait a minute, Mr. Amyras. Mr. Rabbit has asked for the floor. Let me remind you that...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u78	You did this, Mr President! You're responsible for it. So now you'll get the answer from the government, if you want that sort of procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u79	For what?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u80	You'll get the answer from the government. We either observe the Rules of Procedure or not.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u81	Minister, as you know from the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u82	I know the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u83	Good. You have the right, when you take the floor to close the debate, to place and say what you are saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u84	Let's move on. There is no debate here on the bill. There's another thing going on here.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u85	Excuse me. The Bureau, the President-in-Office, the President, does not take the floor to you, as you say. By the Rules of Procedure, you will take the floor and close the debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u86	Mr. President, did you hear anything about the bill?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u87	Minister, let me talk. By the Rules of Procedure, you will have the floor, you will be closed and you will say what you want. So what you say is that you will not answer it is not true, because you will answer it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u88	What you read doesn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u89	I have to remind you that the speaker cannot move away from the matter under discussion. Otherwise, the President invites him to come back to this.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u90	You didn't, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u91	I did.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u92	It's all right, Mr. President. That's better. It's good what's done, because you're gonna get answers now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u93	And I have done so, Mr Kurubli, on several occasions - I call on them to return to the subject - and you know that - with the rapporteur for the Democratic Independence or with a parliamentary representative of the Democratic Incorporation. However, I have no other mechanism than to stop the rapporteur talking. And that's not what I'm gonna do. I am therefore strictly moving under the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u94	Mr President, this is not the first time that this has been done.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u95	I'm sorry, Mr. Athanasios. So, Minister, I will give you the floor to close and say what you want to say. Mr. Rabbit, you have the floor. And I will ask you in your turn, like others, to observe the Rules of Procedure. Because you see that different issues are being created in the House. I don't like it sounding too far. You have the floor, Mr. Rabbit.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u96	How long, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u97	You've all got two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u98	Five minutes, didn't you tell parliamentarians?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u99	Oh, no. It's two minutes because of Article 108. I can give you a minute extra, just like I gave the others. But we should stay on the subject.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u100	What's the matter? The point is that Greek society is being levelled. That's the point. I have already heard the Members of the New Democracy and the PASOK talk, and I do not know how else they might be said anymore, because they have changed names. In particular, New Democracy reacts to these measures, brought by SYRIZA-ANEL coexistence, which would tear the Memorandum up with a law and an article. Let us therefore say to the New Democracy, since they say they are very ahead of the polls on the next election campaign, that they will not implement these measures that will be brought by the SYRIZA-ANEL conflict. What's easier? But they are sitting now and making astounding stories, they say about the memorandum, which SYRIZA will continue. They know it themselves. It is a very pleasant place for people and the New Democracy and PASOK to vote for these measures, because that is how they come out of the difficult position to vote for them themselves, as they did until they fell out of the government in which they were. So to get up here tons and tell stories, not to say them. The Greek people are not a sucker! I have already heard the New Democracy MP say that here we are responsible for what we are saying. If they are responsible and want to be right, let the New Democracy decide that it will not implement these measures. What's easier? So let them go. The Greek people do not forget that the third Memorandum has also been passed by the Members of the New Democracy, again shouting at the SYRIZA - ANEL "go the measures, whatever they may be!" It was August 14, 2015. Let it go. You can call it someplace else. As long as the Golden Dawn is here, you won't! Mr President, I would like to make a small reference to another big issue that has been in existence in the last few days, which has been starting for a long time, just slowly, more and more incidents are coming. We see the alteration that is going to be created in our country's history books. We see some guys who have complexes against Greece, have complexes against Orthodoxy and Christianity, trying to alter reality. We see them talking about the gang war that had happened and said it was a revolution, which, unfortunately, said of them, Mr Voglis - who is currently writing history books about young children, about young Greeks - was not a happy ending. So the fact that the Greek army had prevailed was an unfortunate end to them. That's the reality, and that's what you hear in here, and that's what new kids will learn. As far as the Marxists with the bank lockers are concerned, because they are Marxists in the ideas, but they have lockers in the banks to put the money, because they sometimes forget to say something millions of euros - they didn't remember them...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u101	Please, Mr. Rabbit.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u102	Give me a minute, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u103	On this subject, as I have said to the other Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u104	It is a matter of course, Mr President, because it clearly demonstrates what is happening in Greek society. So these people want to say that children should not, as they say, learn about the Greek Revolution of 1921, but they will learn about modernisation and global industry. That's what's happening. These are unacceptable. The Golden Dawn will not allow them and as long as the Greek people give us the strength, we will see them in here.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u105	I see that we are getting away from the subject of the debate. The President or the President shall give the Rules of Procedure the right to remove the floor. I do not want to get to that level, i.e. to take the floor from Members or from parliamentary representatives. I would therefore ask you to limit ourselves to the subject of the debate. You have the floor, Mr. Amyras, for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u106	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will also address the issue of the Lazarides amendment. It is a good amendment, Minister. And you yourself will realize that it is coming to meet an urgent need. What is this urgent need? Not to suffer seizures by the firms that had joined a development law, they had paid the guarantee letter and because of a natural disaster, a earthquake in Kefalonia, for example, a company was forced to comply with its plans from the investment programme. He returned the grant he received from the investment law, and now what he is asking for is to be exempt from the provision of the guarantee letter, which does not in any event meet its objective. So we say, Minister, that you see this soon because confiscations are on the table - I am glad you agree, Minister - and we will support this regulation. After all, in 2016 your government gave a solution to what is happening with the projects that respond and the companies that may be in an empty legal, institutional. You came and set it up in 2016 and we recognize it to you. Now, Mr President, a half-speaking debate on the general issue raised by the other Members. Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA and ANEL, two memos in two years? You're Harry Potter of the Memorial.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u107	Please, Mr. Amyras, I'll beg you very much...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u108	That's a world record. It's a world record. Reduction of pensions, reduction of wages and deterioration of the life of the Greeks...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u109	...on this issue will be given the opportunity before the measures come, to place everyone. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u110	I shall conclude, Mr President. Half the phrase and I'll be done. The Potami, ladies and gentlemen, will not vote for the second Memorandum of Tsipras - Kammenos, and we ask you with the magic wand, as you have brought it, to eliminate these memoranda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u111	Mr Synonymakis, you have the floor to put yourself on the amendment, because you have already been placed in detail on the bill. You have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u112	Mr President, I was placed on the bill and as a parliamentary representative, let me take the floor as you have given the rest.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u113	The amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u114	They are essentially what the Communist Party of Greece says...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u115	Yes, but not on the subject.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u116	And because you have enabled the debate to be opened on the topical issue, let me say this.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u117	No, on the subject.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u118	In this Chamber too, the false controversy between the government and the New Democracy is evolving in relation to the measures that are being taken. The permanent controversy of the New Democracy with the Government, of course, was that the evaluation was not quickly closed, not for the content of the evaluation. He's doing the same today. The dispute relates to the terms of the agreement and not to the agreement itself, which constitutes tough measures, essentially a new memorandum on the backs of the working class and the people's chambers. So the people must draw conclusions from previous policies, from PASOK and the New Democracy, SYRIZA, which follows each other's policy. And finally, she's paid for by the working populace. And it is confirmed in the most recent way that the path of capitalist recovery passes through the levelling of labour and popular rights. I think that what the government said by an oral Prime Minister, which is also a challenge for the vast majority of the people, is that 'the new measures are a discharge from the memorandum', we say that they are in fact a certificate of death for workers' rights. Because measures are being followed, not until the end of 2018, but measures to the detriment of the people for after 2018. And with the countermeasures, of course, that the government says, it is actually trying to create a climate of tolerance and waiting for the people. Waiting for what? Absolutely nothing. The government just wants to make time to implement these measures, or if tomorrow - it is New Democracy, which will implement them. He hasn't said he won't apply them. And what he says about either the rent subsidy, family allowances or the school meals is nothing but gold powder in the anti-grass attack.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u119	Mr. Synergy, will you please conclude?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u120	After all, what it says about school meals at nurseries shows that poverty and impoverishment will be for too many years yet. So the people must not be subjected to these logics, they must not be entangled in the confrontation between these parties. It must give the strike mobilizations the precipitate of the 17th month.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u121	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after taking part in the educational programme of the "Democracy Workshop" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, sixteen students and students and an educational attendant from the 10th Glyfada Municipal School. The House welcomes them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u122	Mr President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u123	Mr. Saridis, please don't repeat the same thing to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u124	No, Mr. President. Mr. Saridis will be all right, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u125	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u126	The truth is that the bill, which the government has brought us, has not been discussed as it should, for its gravity, within the committees. That's the government's responsibility. It is another bad example of how we legislate in this Chamber, of how we legislate in today's House. As far as Mr Lazarid's amendment is concerned, the Central Association is a substantial relief for businesses, Minister, it would be advisable to accept it. You haven't accepted her. It would be better for the government to bring it, just as this amendment is and not to change something within it, because it is something that needs and is missing. The Centro Association will support it. I'm not going to make another comment. The Greek people know who are responsible and how we have been driven to where we have been driven. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u127	Minister, please hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u128	Mr President, I have asked you to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u129	When, Mr. Santorinier? You didn't ask for him. Now you're asking him.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u130	From the beginning of your meeting, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u131	Now you're asking him!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u132	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u133	Sure. But now you're asking him. Don't complain to me too. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u134	Mr President, thank you. It is impressive to hear from parties that want to be called the Central Left, that the environment is a bureaucratic process. Because what we are talking about today is protection of the marine environment. I have heard from the Parliamentary Representative of the Democratic Independence that it is a bureaucratic process. I heard other, very nice things, of course, like the Daymare, we hit labour rights. Didn't you hear what happened exactly? Didn't you hear that we agreed to restore prolongation and more favourable regulation? Isn't that in favour of labour rights? Is it against working rights? To figure out what we're saying here because they're lying. In a foggy landscape, the fog is not brought, the fog is brought by the opposition. Because the opposition does not want to accept that we are going to take 3.6 billion negative measures, but also 3.6 billion positive measures, which will be taken as soon as we catch 3.5%. Don't say things that don't just apply to throwing mist, to cast dark on what is said. Of course, you say that there is no chance that the country will produce these surpluses. There's a possibility. We've produced multiples of them because we've put cuts in the complexity, corruption and black money, what you couldn't do, and that's why you never got the targets, because in 2014 you had to get 1.5% surplus and get 0.2%. This alone was an additional 2.5 billion meters. Do not lie, because here, because it is the temple of parliamentary democracy, we must speak truths and not lies and unfortunately I have only heard lies from you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u135	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u136	You will have the floor on staff for a minute, not to start a debate. You have the right to speak for a minute, Mr. Loverde. But don't start a conversation.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u137	Where did the staff see it, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u138	What's the staff, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u139	To what is the staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u140	The insult of the intelligence and parliamentary integrity of the Parliamentary Representative of the Democratic Union lies in the fact that the Secretary-General deliberately and deliberately made a mistake in the sense that we do not understand the issues of environmental protection, while all of my speech, in so far as I reacted to protests by fellow Members of the Com munity, did not recommend any disagreements on the substance in which, however, I was wise to say who Mr Arvanidis expressed in our agreement and our vote, but the fact that Parliament is opening up a sanction and does not mean, while they are openly big issues, which concern the Greek people, to ignore them in a bureaucratic way. That is what I said, Mr Colleague, and you have understood it very well and you are quite right to say what you are saying. Secondly, it is not possible, Mr President - because you are a Member - to have the courage - because it is not courage - during a debate in the House on dramatic cuts in income and pensions, to come and say that you did good to the Greek people.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u141	Mr. Loverdo, this isn't personal. Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u142	You should come to the House with more containment and tightness.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u143	Minister, you have the floor. I would ask you, as I have asked everyone else - I am not going to take the floor away from anyone - to respect Rule 108 while we are discussing it, because we see that the trend that prevails is to discuss other things that need to be discussed at another sitting. When the measures come to Parliament, the pros and cons will be discussed in detail. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u144	(EL) Mr President, 'the wing has become bad for its head'. I have heard the Civic Opposition really confusing and panic because the famous evaluation has been closed and the argument that kept an even superficial and epidermal balance in the hairy New Democracy, the argument of the elections is now being rejected. Mr President, since there was such a big problem that the consultation did not take place, how was it in the committee from New Democracy, apart from Mr Athanasios, that no one else spoke? I don't know if anyone else was interested in speaking. Finally, for the Greek people to know here, this huge deficit of the lack of consultation that has emerged, has resulted in only three Members making a small comment in the debate in this House. Otherwise, what we're talking about here is what we're talking about. Mr President, it is truly impressive that once again the Civic Opposition, which at some point claims to govern Greece, is governed by the logic of the goldfish. They forgot the "Zapipia", they forgot their commitments to the Greek people, and what they did afterwards, and now they tell us here about other things. Mr President, we were told 'to quickly close the assessment' and the government tried to limit all these absurd demands from our famous lenders. There are two very critical issues for which we are all in pain. I want to recognize what they don't recognize themselves. Recognize that they too are struggling for the issue of pensions and the issue of tax. At the critical moment they were found next to the government, which was negotiating the issue of pensions and tax free? If you have now heard Mr. Dendia, now he has first put the blame on the government and then on the lenders. And that was for typical reasons, to create a sense that he said a word about lenders. It's all the Greek government's fault. I mean, he wanted the Greek government to cut off pensions, he wanted to take the tax off, and the lenders didn't want it. That's what they tell us. They come today and talk when an institutional factor in public life came out and said that pensions in Greece are the ones they are. Who from the Civic Opposition criticised this position? No one, Mr. President. Today, then, finally, this torture is closing. The Civic Opposition claims to rule Greece. He thinks the Greek people have forgotten. Until yesterday you have been ruling Greece for years. The Greek people don't forget. The election time will come at the end of the four-year period and we will all be judged. We'll all be judged. We're the ones who rule, and you're the ones you're fighting. Be patient. What we must now do and what the government, ladies and gentlemen, will do, is start a new effort. Because the aim is to get the country out of this famous comitology and reduce as much as possible the dependencies, the impositions and requirements of all these famous lenders. The government, ladies and gentlemen, is starting a new effort. The government is dealing with Greece. You guys deal with SYRIZA. The Greek people will judge us all. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u145	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u146	Mr President, the Independent Greeks have not spoken. We're out of place.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u147	Now you're asking. What's my fault? Excuse me. You asked for the floor and I didn't give it to you? You didn't ask for the floor. When the speech is not requested, we shall proceed. Now that you're asking for the floor, I'll give it to you. You have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u148	Thank you, Mr President. Before I begin my position, I would like to make a comment. I heard the Opposition say things. The government has a gloomy role to manage a disaster which - not to forget - caused opposition. We are talking about the two parties that have been ruling for decades. He also admitted it several times as the current Vice-President of the New Democracy. He had said many times that the country went bankrupt. I'm talking about the period 2012-2013. The country, therefore, did not go bankrupt by this government, the government of the two parties that had been ruling the country for decades. So we know what we're talking about. The opposition's behavior reminds me of the arsonist who, after setting fire to the woods, was then calling for the fire extinguisher to be assigned to him. Let's know what we're talking about! In any case, I made a comment on what has been said. As far as ratification of the convention is concerned, we have placed the Independent Greeks and the Committee during the debate. Clearly we are positive, because it is something that protects citizens' health and the marine environment and the wider environment in general. I would like to say two words on the amendment tabled by the Independent Greeks. It is, Minister, an amendment that comes after L.4399/2016, where this particular article was an amendment that I had tabled and then related to what I tabled and to the amendment that we are discussing. In other words, the enterprises that participated in the previous development laws and received some amounts - I am talking about Law 3299/2004 or Law 3908/2011 - with that article we have exempted them. They were able to do so when, for reasons of force majeure, they were unable to implement the development programme in which they were involved and had taken some money, to pay them back without any additional charges. In other words, they must not have any surcharges or interest, since they have been proven for the sake of force majeure they could not implement the programme. She was an amendment that I had tabled, which we had agreed and passed as a legislative improvement. He was right and he really relieved too many people. Now, with this amendment we propose this, Minister. The banks to issue the guarantee letters received some commissions and received some amounts. I am talking about the development programmes and the advances received by enterprises in order to implement these programmes to which they have participated. At least until 2016, there was no legislative framework to be able to return what we say, because there were some weather phenomena, such as earthquakes, floods, fires, that is, what is characterised by the law as grounds for force majeure. It happened: Until L.4399/2016 was passed and people could return the money they received, they could not return it. It wasn't foreseeable. While it should normally be anticipated by the 2004 development plan and by the 2011 plan, there was no provision for what citizens could do. So they couldn't return the money, they had increments, they had settlements, etc., i.e. charges, which were not due to their own fault. Under the above law, Law No.4399/2016, the issue of the amount that they have put back was settled. Now, with this amendment, we are trying to settle the procurement issue imposed by banks in order to issue the guarantee letters on participation in development programmes. In fact, we also have incremental effects, we have phenomena of turbulence and anatomy, and with this amendment, precisely, we are trying to alleviate these operations. In other words, once they returned the money they took by taking part in the development law, they should not be charged with the issue of commissions for the bailout letters from the banks. It's very simple, I think. I accept what you have said and we will have to discuss it in a short time. When a bill comes back, we can pass it to alleviate business, because you know what happens with business. People really raise a cross. Those businesses that have stayed open are trying to stand up and we must support them. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u149	Thank you, Mr. Lazarides. The debate on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy is hereby concluded: ‘Definition of the International Convention for the Control and Management of Project and sediment from Ships, 2004 and other provisions’. Asked by this House: Can the bill be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u150	We are voting for the bill in principle.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u151	In principle. Does this House therefore ask: is the draft adopted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u152	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u153	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u154	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u155	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u156	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u157	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u158	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u159	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u160	Consequently, the Bill of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy: ‘Definition of the International Convention for the Control and Management of Projects and Diversities from Ships, 2004 and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, in principle, of articles and all of them and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u161	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u162	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. At this point, the meeting is adjourned...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u163	Mr President, we must also say our views on the articles. We are only voting on the first article.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u164	Look, the whole of it is voted on. The sitting shall be suspended at 12.00 a.m.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u165	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, forty-five students and students and two educational attendants from the High School of Nea Kydonia Chania (Second Chamber). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the SPECIFIC FEDERATION Requests for the waiver of immunity of Members: debate and decision, in accordance with Rule 62 of the Constitution and Rule 83 of the Rules of Procedure of Parliament, on applications for waiver of immunity from Members of Parliament Mr. Vassilis Leventis, Christos Karagianidis and Athanasios Papachristopoulos. The relevant Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics has announced its report of 27.4.2017, according to which the members of the Committee proposed, by a majority, that Mr Leventis' immunity should not be lifted. The relevant Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics announced its report of 27-4-2017, according to which the members of the Commission proposed, by a majority, that the immunity of Mr Christos Karayannis should not be waived. The relevant Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics announced its report of 27-4-2017, according to which the members of the Committee proposed, by a majority, that the immunity of Mr Athanasios Papachristopoulos should not be waived. Under Rule 83 of the Rules of Procedure, the House does not enter the substance of the cases, but only investigates whether the act in respect of which the waiver of immunity is sought is linked to the parliamentary or political activity of the Member or to the prosecution, the law of law, the inclination conceals political feasibility. In accordance with Rule 83(7) of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, Parliament shall also decide, by raising the hands or by raising the request of the public prosecutor in accordance with the procedure referred to in the second subparagraph of Article 108(1). The floor shall always be given, on request, to the Member, to whom the request relates and to the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups or their alternates. I would remind you that, in accordance with a decision of the Conference of Presidents of 23 March 2005, we have accepted in respect of applications for waiver of immunity the House has decided by roll-call vote and by roll-call vote. The vote, in which each colleague will list his name, his constituency and the parliamentary group, will be registered in the respective Minutes. That is how we respond to the provisions of Rule 83 of the Rules of Procedure, which requires a clear vote. After the debate on the cases of today's Special Agenda is concluded, we shall proceed to a roll-call vote, as I have described. The first case concerns Mr Vassiliou Leventis, the second case concerns Mr Christos Karayannides, and the third case concerns Mr Athanasios Papachristopoulos. Is there any colleague requesting the floor under Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure? Nobody. The second request, is there any colleague requesting the floor under Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure? Nobody. Is there any colleague requesting the floor under Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure? Nobody. Ladies and gentlemen, there will be a roll-call vote on this item. A list has been drawn up with the names of colleagues for requesting the waiver of immunity. Every colleague will vote next to the Members' names on whom the waiver of immunity is sought. The person voting for the waiver of immunity takes note of his preference by the name of the Member and in the column 'yes', that is to say, 'yes' to the prosecutor's request for the waiver of immunity. The vote against the waiver of immunity takes place next to the name of the Member and in the column 'no' respectively 'no'. The voter will take note of it in the respective ballot column. Every Member of Parliament will be named, his constituency and the parliamentary group to which he belongs and will sign it, because the vote is rolled out in accordance with Rule 72 of the Rules of Procedure. Subsequently, with his name on the list of colleagues, he will deliver the ballot to colleagues Mario Katsis from SYRIZA and Apostolos Vésiropoulos from New Democracy, who will sign it and announce that the MP has voted. After the end of the vote there will be a counting of the votes by the Members I have mentioned, as will be the result of the votes, which will be recorded in the Minutes of this sitting. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u166	So the House unanimously agreed. Parliamentarians Mr Anastasia Gara from SYRIZA and Mr Vassilis Yoyakas from New Democracy are on the list. I would also like to inform you that a fax (fax) has been sent to the Bureau in accordance with Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure, which makes its vote known. This vote will be announced and taken into account in the count, which will be followed. Please start reading the directory.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u167	Is there a colleague who didn't hear his name? Mr. Vassilios Economou. [[Mr Vassiliou, President-in-Office of the Council. — (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for his answer.]] The letter, which was sent to the Bureau by my colleague, pursuant to Rule 70a of the Rules of Procedure, will be recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u168	Ladies and gentlemen, the vote is adjourned, and I would ask the voters to count on the votes and the result.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u169	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House the outcome of a roll-call vote on applications for waiver of immunity from Members. A total of 197 Members voted. For Mr Vassiliou Leventis: In favour of the waiver of immunity, i.e. 'NAH', he voted 1 Member. Against the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'OH', they voted 195 MPs. Vote "PARTS" 1 Member. The request of the Public Prosecutor is therefore rejected. [[The protocol and the roll-calls of the roll-call vote shall be recorded in the Minutes and shall be as follows:]] [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[Listing the Protocol and the Votes p.75a]] For Mr Christos Karayannides: In support of the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'NAH', 39 Members voted. They voted against the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'OH', 156 Members. They voted for 2 MPs. The request of the Public Prosecutor is therefore rejected. For Mr Athanasios Papachristopoulos: In support of the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'NAH', 39 Members voted. On the other hand, I would like to point out that the Commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to biological agents at They voted for 9 MPs. The request of the Public Prosecutor is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u170	Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-03-S1-commons.u171	With the consent of the House at 13.07 p.m. the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Thursday 4 May 2017, at 12.00 p.m., on the subject of the House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
