ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent question issue of Thursday 7 September 2017. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Carditsa of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Chrysula Katsavra - Siropoulou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food about the promotion and support of collective production schemes. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 1440/5-9-2017 topical question by MP Kilkis of New Democracy Mr Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgiotta to the Minister of Administrative Reconstruction on the planning of recruitment of all specialities in the municipalities and the delays in updating the Census. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Under No 1441/5-9-2017, a topical question by Deputy Serres of New Democracy Mrs Fotinis Arabatzis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Our country has been demanding Community support for producers". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No 1357/29-8-2017 that was raised by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMARKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKMKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKMKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKK of of ofzorister ofzormanormanormanormanormanorman of Minister of Minister of Minister of Minister of Minister of Minister of Minister of Minister of Minister of Minister of Minister of Minister of Minister of of of of of of Minister of Minister of Minister of Minister of Minister of Minister of Minister of Minister of Minister of Minister of Minister of Minister of of of of of for Committee for Committee for 3. The question asked by MP Chios of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Andreas Michaelides to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport on the subject: “Completion of work for the formation and fence of an expropriated area at Chios airport and extension of the Christos road”. 4. Under number 1114/29-6/2017, a topical question by MP Serres of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.MAR.Michael Jeleli to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "The creation of three new toll stations on the Promahona Road axis - Serres - Port of Thessaloniki is disastrous for the Prefecture of Serres". 5. The question by No 1248/18-7-2017 of the Greek Communist Party MP, Stavros Tassos, to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "To take immediate action to compensate for earthquakes and the damage to Lesvos". Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK A sole debate and vote on the principle, articles and all the draft law of the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity: 'Retirement regulations and other insurance provisions, strengthening the protection of workers, the rights of persons with disabilities and other provisions'. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 30 August 2017 to discuss the draft law at two single meetings in principle, on articles and on amendments. Does this House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u2	The House therefore agreed. The rapporteur for SYRIZA Mr Socrates Vardakis has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u3	Mr President, on the organisation of the debate, will it be at the outset today and tomorrow on the articles?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u4	It is a single debate. Let the first two talk to see how many people will be registered and then set time by common accord.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u5	Mr President, the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u6	Here you go, Mr. Katsotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u7	Mr President, will the rapporteurs not have a second?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u8	Everything will be normal. It's okay. Here, Mr Vardakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, we wish the President Voutsi a moment ago and a quick return to his duties. Ladies and gentlemen, a bill which has been discussed and analysed in plenary today has been introduced to the committees and has been endorsed by those who have even pointed out that it is moving in the right direction. How to avoid, after it solves problems of many years, problems that were burdening the country's insurance and pension systems by creating permanent changes but also a climate of insecurity for retired and insured persons. Your mistakes, ladies and gentlemen, are corrected, injustices created by your own policies at the expense of all workers. We are discussing today a draft law which can only be regarded as positive because it contains provisions for implementing Law No.4387/2016. They are provisions on the strengthening and protection of workers, provisions on the implementation of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, as well as the conversion of the link between social workers of Greece into a legal person governed by public law. Part of the provisions of the draft law regulates the more rapid award of the main supplementary pensions, the one-off benefits, solves administrative issues of social security institutions, and also individual insurance matters of specific categories. Farmers benefit because they will be able to buy off fictitious years with low price. The mechanics, lawyers, benefit because their insurance is disconnected from the status of more and more will pay insurance contributions at the start of their business and for as long as this lasts. Finally, people suffering from mental illness are benefiting since they will be able to work without any reduction in their pension. The question of the competence of the characterisation of accidents at work is resolved, which has led to the accumulation of outstanding cases since 2012. We grant unemployment benefits to scientists. The question of calculating the pensions of persons who had no or limited periods of insurance in the period from 1-1 to 2002 is resolved and therefore it should be stated that where no insurance period arises from at least five years from 1-1-2002 until the start of a pension, then the five-year period is looking for years before 2002. From 2021 the time of insurance sought before 2002 can reach all ten years. The bill protects workers and responds to their constant demands. All this time, ladies and gentlemen, we have heard, recorded the motives of the workers themselves, their problems and their concerns. From the first moment we have been in contact with the workers, the trade unions, the labour unions, with institutions to listen to their problems and opinions. We never shut doors, we never hid behind our finger. We lay the foundations for better working conditions, without social inequalities and a violation of labour rights. Because to date the worker, who had been unpaid in a company that did not pay him because there was a very negative case-law, who said that it could not be considered as a unilateral employee, so the worker could not easily prove that his non-payment is dismissal, he should go to the courts and his case should be tried after years. If he was to receive compensation for the whole time, he would not receive an unemployment benefit with a substantial, of course, biopoverty problem. What did we do? The Ministry accepted first of all the amendment tabled by the Communist Party of Greece that the non-pay-back is a unilaterally harmful change, so the worker can consider that there is no dismissal and claim compensation. In addition, the next day will be able to receive the unemployment benefit. So we are essentially helping the issue of biopolitics. At the same time, we will also establish the immediate resolution of disputes so that the worker can have a judicial decision in his hands and take his allowance and what is due. The Labour Inspectorate is being strengthened so that more efficient work can be done in the fight against undeclared and alleged work. The approval of funding through the NRP 7.60,000 - and this is no accident, but it is our choice, is the government's choice of this money - which will be allocated for the provision of quality controls which will henceforth be carried out in areas of high infractions and for the upgrading of information services and legal advice to workers. We are seeking and will succeed in stabilising the situation in the labour market for the benefit of workers, strengthening the institutional framework, but also using the appropriate financial instruments always to strengthen and protect workers. In addition, we promote reforms that will improve the level of life of SMEs by facilitating their accessibility to the environment. No social exclusion is acceptable for this and the administrative bodies are now obliged to design the appropriate infrastructure to ensure accessibility for everyone and provide support technology and personal assistance measures. Finally, the transformation of the TSE into a legal person governed by public law, which is expected to give a new boost to the implementation of social policy, is another important aspect of the draft law. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not stopping here. Other initiatives will be taken. It became the first incision and we said that we were correcting errors over the past few years, reintroducing provisions that were really a matter of dignity to Greek workers. We are not restraining, and this is seen in the policy that we are choosing to pursue, it is seen in the provisions that we introduce to shield disabled people's rights, provisions on speeding up insurance reform, provisions on the protection of workers, by which we promote measures to strengthen workers' rights and protect workers from specific forms of infringibility and abuse of behaviour. We are really washing wounds that have arisen from the exercise of your own choices. In addition, let me say about the amendment we tabled on the adjunct of work, which is really an incision and is essential to workers. Ladies and gentlemen, we have also analysed in all the committees, we have seen that there was the agreement of the overwhelming majority of the bodies, we have all understood that this bill was an urgent need. We managed to bring it in. I would like to say two things, however, because recent space and propaganda and demagogy have reached a high level. Ladies and gentlemen of counter-population, you see that every day your methodology and rhetoric for destruction, for a fourth and fifth memorandum, for a permanent commission, for impotence of the government. The first green light on the country's exit from the excessive deficit procedure was given after the meeting of the European Union finance ministers the day before yesterday. Improving the economic indicators and signs of restoring the regularity of small and medium-sized enterprises, which have emerged so recently, showed the six-monthly survey by the Institute of GSE and is not the SYRIZA Presidium of GSE. Unemployment, late - yes slowly - but stablely, falls substantially. In general, economic indicators are improved. The growth rates are now satisfactory and we hope that they will be more satisfactory in the next period. Two things to say, closing: In order not to become a nightmare in August 2018 you must be patient and restrainted. And secondly, it would be advisable to vote on this bill, it would be a genuine apologies for the suffering that you imposed on all the workers in the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u10	Thank you to Socrates Vardakis, SYRIZA rapporteur.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u11	Mr. Vardakis, can I take your time?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u12	It will not be necessary, Mr Colleague, because I think most of you will agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u13	I'll add him, Mr. Brutsi. Mr Ioannis Vroutsis, the rapporteur of the New Democracy, has the floor, who, in agreement with Mr Vardakis and by strengthening what he says, wants to take his time to succeed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u14	Like this, but a little different, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u15	So, a little differentiated, maybe a little backwards.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, within three years, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government concludes and is now also confirmed in practice by this bill that the biggest victims of your inability and your ideal are not just pensioners, they are mostly workers. And that, ladies and gentlemen, is also confirmed by this bill, because it seems strange that this notorious and well-advertised bill, as I shall say, does not bring any job and does not create a single job. To be more precise, two retireds are assigned to Mr. Flambury's office, as he says in a specific article. But if we look at the characteristics of the bill now, we see that unfortunately for SYRIZA, as we will analyse and see it in the debate, it is a slogan of provisions, clipping, ineffective, provisions that do not respond to the open wounds that SYRIZA opened in society and the economy, do not respond to the generation of 360 euros created by Mr Tsipras and SYRIZA, and do not respond to the pensions of 185 euros in the generation of pensioners, do not respond to the forthcoming reductions of the two pensions from 1-12019, do not respond to the two wages that will be lost by the workers from 1-1-2019, through the second successive reduction in duty. They don't respond to a series of things, and above all, they don't answer, Mr. Petersburg, since you are present, too, in the three hundred thousand - unprecedented figures! - pensioners, who have been waiting for more than three years for retirement. It's a bill, which is mostly insurance. Ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, it is insurance for the majority of the provisions and it comes in the form of ballasts to correct the Katorugalo law, but it does not make it. And it's an insurance bill, the seventeenth in a row after the Katrugalou law, which brings pension reductions. It confirms the reduction of pensions from 21% to 40% in supplementary pensions, but does something even more negative. It does not solve the problem of pensioners, supplementary pensions, which from 1-1-2015 awaits the most famous mathematical type of SYRIZA, after abolishing ours. It does not solve the problem in a hundred and twenty - nine thousand supplementary pensions for our fellow people who are waiting in line to get their pensions. So it does not respond to any of these and bears a burden on pensioners. But what I asked the Minister about the urgency of the bill and the timing that brings it, I did not get an answer. Because I said to her: "Mrs. Minister, you could bring the bill one month and a half ago, when you brought the team redundancies to the bill, which SYRIZA voted for the group redundancies. Why didn't you do it then? There are no urgent provisions, you could do so then.' I didn't get a reply. I remind you that we didn't vote for team redundancies. I told her that she could delay it, do it in a wider debate and consultation and bring it a month later, when the other working bill, what changes trade union law, the famous 50% plus one, and the codification of labour legislation. And I told her, don't be afraid, that we'll vote together. I didn't get a reply. However, the answer is easy, ladies and gentlemen, because we are in front of the PTH and the Minister wanted, the political leadership of the Ministry of Labour to give Mr Tsipras some of his arguments with a view to the Thessaloniki International Fair, especially on the field, which you consider to be privileged for you, in the workplace and insurance. In practice, however, you do not add anything, and once again Mr Tsipras and his faults, which he said last year, which - I recall - was promised by the IGC's step on the irresponsible account, which was not done, and which had promised to freeze the debts and debts of the free professionals, which again happened. But I would like, not to blame, to say that I also welcome the Minister personally and the staff of the Ministry of Labour, who accede to the real world of the economy. Because, ladies and gentlemen, in the discussion procedure in committee, the Minister took a very important step - and the government - has separated her past - I am not talking about what they were saying in the election campaign about the EUR 751 minimum wage for the abolition of flexible forms of employment, the double unemployment benefit for everyone, we put these aside - I am talking about unemployment rates. I heard the Minister invoking ELSTAT and Ergani. I would remind you that ELSTAT was unreliable in previous years, and the 'ERGANI', which was a good result, was the modeling - Bruce at that time. Now they're invoking her. It is a good thing that it does not invoke the UNHCR, which, today, unemployment, said by UNHCR, exists, is 37% and SYRIZA does not accept it. We welcome you to the real world, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA. We are here, stable in responsibility and seriousness. But let us look at the quality and the real elements of unemployment and restore the truth in this Chamber eventually. Ladies and gentlemen, unemployment in 2013 indeed - that is where we will agree - was escalated to 27.9%. In 2015, the Prime Minister avoids this being said in January, unemployment fell to 25.4%, two and a half points below. That's not what happened at all. It has been because reforms have taken place and reforms have matured over the past few years. You're hiding it. That's the reality. In practice in 2016, unemployment was closed to 23.5%. You're hiding it. That's how it closed. In practice, however, we had reached agreement with the institutions that unemployment at 31-12-2016 would close to 19.5%. What does that mean? That under the responsibility of SYRIZA and his policy, two hundred thousand jobs have been lost! [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] So this divergence in the unemployment you are calling for today has some quality characteristics that I would recommend to you, since you accept the basic rule of the institutions that say them, that you also take the trouble of reading the qualitative analysis, because it is very critical. So why is unemployment reduced? Is it deviating? Of course, it is declining, but it has slowed down very considerably the degression of unemployment on your own responsibility. Unemployment is deviating, but unfortunately, Minister, with your policies, you have managed to dominate flexible forms of employment for the first time in the labour market. It is called the 'ERGANI'. You have managed to trade - and this is a cause of declining - full-time jobs with part-time jobs. And there's something else, even more important. Employees' wages are considerably reduced. It is what we call "the generation of 360 euros", which has your signature as SYRIZA, the footprint of your own responsibility and policy. Of course, you do not count and you never put the real, serious dimension of Brain Drain, which when it was the first worthwhile study showed that 11% of 2015 was ejected to 33% in 2017.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u17	What is this study? Are you going to tell us?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u18	Whose responsibility is this three-year management in the government? And I'm on my way. Because there is a dispute about what I am saying and because we have to agree at least on the figures, ladies and gentlemen, in the Minutes of this House: 53.05% of part-time work in the labour market of our country with a government of SYRIZA. It was 54% in 2015 on an annual basis. It was 54.74% - the labour market was 'blocked' - the part-time of our country in 2016. I'm filing it in the Minutes and you can get it, so we don't have to say any more, so we can get in touch with each other. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Ioannis Vroutsis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In 2017 we do not have an annual basis, but in July we have 54.26% of part-time employment in Greece under the responsibility of SYRIZA. I'm tabling it in the Minutes and please take it from the Minutes so we don't have any different numbers to discuss these days. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Ioannis Vroutsis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I am now going to the balance of the 'ERGAN' system, which you call too much for. Indeed, the balance of the ERGAN system since 2013 has been positive and only positive. But let's see the real dimension of the "ERGANI" system. I would like to say, ladies and gentlemen, what the government does not give you - and I say this to the SYRIZA Members - the balance of the 'ERGAN' system up to 2016 on an annual basis. What does that lead make? It follows that over the period 2012-2013 there has been the biggest positive overthrow in the labour market by creating two hundred five thousand five hundred two jobs. If you see 2016 compared to 2013, we only have two thousand nine hundred five new jobs. I put it in the Minutes and you can get it. It is one of the annual "ERGANI", elements of the Ministry of Labour. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Ioannis Vroutsis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Now let's go to the wages that the Minister invoked. It was a provocative statement that you made in a seated society, workers of 360 euros, to talk about wage increases, Minister. The wages, ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of the elements of the 'ERGANI' system - 'ERGANI', which you are now invoking - by comparing between 2013 and 2014 with 2015-2016, we have a hundred and thirty-four thousand nine hundred ninety-nine workers with a wage of less than EUR 500. I've tabled this in the Minutes too. It is from the annual "ERGANI" that comes out at the end of the year by the Ministry of Labour. And if you want to say other information about EKKA, with data published by EKKA, I tell you that in November 2015 until November 2016, from a comparison of data, we see an increase in part-time employment during the SYRIZA period by 12.75%. It's on page four. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Ioannis Vroutsis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I am now going to the most critical element, Minister, which will "support you" for many years, to see in practice that it is not the protagonist who invokes it, it is not the one who vindicates wishes, it is not the one who says and beats the back wickedly with vague vagueness and generosity, but the one who exercises political real, in favour of workers, with tools for entrepreneurship, the creation of a climate that makes decisions for the defence of workers essential and not vague, as I will prove below. Ladies and gentlemen, I called the Ministry of Labour in 2013. I received the undeclared work, according to the Ministry's figures, at 40,47%. I delivered it in December 2014 to 13.22%. I'm filing it. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Ioannis Vroutsis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Here, how undeclared work is dealt with, with what policies, with what faith, with a political orientation aimed at making important decisions. And we made decisions balanced. And if you ask me - because I hear SYRIZA Members saying - why I don't give data below 13.2% of 2014, it's why they don't exist. You didn't get any more evidence. And here's darkness, like with the elements of "ELIOS" that the troika pressed you and you took them off until February 2017 and you have never seen any evidence before. Darkness, middle age at the Ministry of Labour. Unfortunately, that's it. But, as far as I can see, you haven't given a single unit undeclared work, three years of government, and this fact is that the previous government dropped the undeclared work from 40% to 13%. Take the chart to read it when you place it, place it, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I asked the Minister to give me an answer on a crucial issue. We are talking about a working bill and I asked her to tell me about Mr Flavourari's statement that 'they were not absorbed as a result of oligopoly due to a workload of 35 billion'. Of course, to be precise, it should not be 35, because it is by 2020, but by 2017 it would be at least 11 billion. Think of this, if we had absorbed and entered GDP, how much it would have increased GDP and now compare the one unit of GDP, which the economists say is forty thousand jobs. Minister, will you tell us how much money we have lost at Community level and how many jobs you have not brought to the country and how much wages have been set down because of your frugality? Are you going to answer? I'm asking you for a third consecutive day. Will you answer us for the company "Hellenic FRYSOS", for the two and a half thousand workers? Madam Minister, do the workers at the "ELELANDIKI FRYSOS" company have a class mark, are they other workers or do they not care about you? It is also the investment in Corfu, ladies and gentlemen, which a Syrian mayor blocks it, the hundreds of jobs that have not been created. Will you respond, Minister of Labour? Do you have a responsibility for the unemployed who are present today and do not work because of your policy? And I'm going to today's ESDP data. Ladies and gentlemen, in 2015 the previous government had absorbed 87.97% of the funds of the NRP that are specified. In 2016 it closed with 29.3%. Do you know what that means? Lost resources for the Greek economy, which correspond to jobs and you do nothing, Minister. I do not hear you say anything about the creation of these jobs, for which Greek society is struggling to create, to increase wages. In any case, that is the reality, ladies and gentlemen, but I am also obliged to restore the truth to a matter that has touched me personally. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, for a while your tolerance. The Minister in her prototype in committee said an incredible lie, which then turned - 'fake news' - we call it, Mr Petropoulou, through your own methods - to the media and said that there were two hundred jobs of labour inspectors. Next, it happened: The well-known copies of SYRIZA, on the part of ANELs, have unequivocally adopted this theory of the Minister of State and said that "Brutsis, New Democracy, the former government has persecuted two hundred labour inspectors". In my intervention, the Minister restored the truth. The truth is, ladies and gentlemen, that there has been no harm by a single job inspector. We have reduced, empty organic positions and tried to pass it on to job inspectors. I am presenting the minutes of the Minister's statements, which did not have the honour of requesting an apology to this lousy slander. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Ioannis Vroutsis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] But I think that the Minister is a worthy successor to Mr Katrugalos. He will remain in history as the Minister with the EUR 10 billion pension cuts, when he would call the thirteenth that was cut off by the ESS and most importantly by the minister who said to the retired "do not believe your pocket, believe my letter". Here it happened: The Minister, Mrs Ahtsoglou, made the slip through the House. In the bill - you cheated on workers, between branch and business contracts, another breach - the Minister brought two legislative provisions, another on the recital and another on the actual body of the law. We have legislated, undeclared, and then we are relegated. This conflict, Minister, I wish - I say again - will not happen in this bill. But I'll tell you something, 'cause everyone's writing their story.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u19	And hang up with this, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u20	I'm hanging up with this, Mr. President. Just one minute, let me say this: the Minister refused it and did not take a position. From this step you brought the team redundancies. Ladies and gentlemen, this is Law 4472, Leaf Number 74, Article 17. It's the complete release of team redundancies without control. This, Minister, will accompany you. You are the Minister you have brought - not personally, as Minister with SYRIZA, your party - the Labour Law of your country, the collective redundancies. I put it to the SYRIZA Members who were ignorant when we discussed it. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Ioannis Vroutsis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And now let's go say two things.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u21	This is what you're doing, please. You're far beyond time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u22	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill is in the wrong direction. It is held by a punishing perception, which does not help workers, and most importantly is that it is also unconscious. There are provisions on which we are positively committed and which we shall vote on. For example, for OAS, the unemployment benefit to those referred to as 'crowded unemployed' is costly? I'm asking. You did not bother to see how much that costs, to prove it to the House, to the Greeks. Do you legislate again and there won't be any money? Also, in terms of speeding up the trial, which we will be voting on, did you ask the Minister of Justice whether the judges can deal with this matter? And I close, ladies and gentlemen - we will say more in the articles, but I think it is very serious and unacceptable, because it is unprecedented in our country - with the following: You have turned the EMCDDA into SYRIZEFKA. You bring a provision into the bill, which means what are you doing? The inconceivable! He has no precedent in the political history of the country! Instead of taking out the organogram and presidential decree for EKKA from May 2016, new jobs so that in a democratic and transparent way workers can be placed and the positions of directors and heads are placed, you authorize the Minister of Labour with an incredible possibility - by putting aside any other procedure - to decide on the fate of eight thousand eight hundred workers. That's who you are! The Greek people and your workers have understood. You'll see it very soon in the polls. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u23	Mr President, may I have the floor on a point of order?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u24	There's no procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u25	For a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u26	No, no second. Now Mrs Christophilopoulou will take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u27	But you gave Mr. Brutsis eighteen minutes without saying anything about the bill. He talked to all scientists and never even a single hint about the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u28	That's not the point. This is a political crisis. Please. We're not interrupting the process. Mrs Christophilopoulou, a special speaker in the Democratic Partnership, has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we wish a good autumn procedure. Parliament is starting with legislative work, because the timelines had already begun. Let me start with something positive about this bill. I am referring to the chapter on disabled people. I wonder why he didn't become addicted as long as that should be, Mrs. Fire. The chapter is an institutional safeguard for us - from Greece's point of view - of ratification of the UN Convention on the Rights of SMUs in 2012. So its institutional dimension comes with this bill, and that is of course a good thing. Otherwise, ladies and gentlemen, this bill is a low-flight bill. He's trying to make some minor improvements. Why is he coming now and why is he coming like this? [[Noise in the Chamber]] Mr President, I am so sorry. Ladies and gentlemen, to the one who is in Stepma - I call for the assistance of the Bureau - there is a very strong speech with the mobile phone and the conversation. I'm so sorry. Completely fellow Members, I would ask you too much for a little quiet. It doesn't make any sense. Anyone who doesn't want to hear. I would, however, like to be able to form my thoughts, because I am not speaking from text. So I was saying, Mr. Ministers, that this bill is a low-flight one. Why is that? What's coming to cover? It comes to cover a grim reality of a country that has imposed unbearable burdens on contributions, taxes and pension cuts, with an inappropriate memorandum 3 and its "sister" Memorandum 4 and burdens the Greek citizen by 12 billion euros. So there can be no fairy tales in this grim reality, no Thessaloniki programs anymore! Let's go to a known story from our childhood, that of the naked king. For the king is indeed naked. And with regard to this bill, in view of the autumn process, whether there was the PMI or there was no, the Prime Minister must say something. And because in fairy tale, naked king doesn't know, because here we know - and you know nakedness - we have to have a leaf of fig tree and some gypsy ornaments. As far as we are concerned, the Democratic Alliance is going to say one thing: we will vote on the'symphony sheet', any positive provisions. The 'chiggins' ornaments', however, are for others. It's not for us. See them with your co-pilots, the Independent Greeks of the People's Right. So I begin with the general ones, having the first comment on social dialogue. Listen, ladies and gentlemen, there is no social dialogue by bringing this low-flight bill, which has some positive, without consultation. What about without consultation? Was there anything that Mr. Tsipras could say? Didn't he have what to say? Did this bill come without consultation? Is there any reason why we were talking in Parliament on the same day, as if it were urgent - but you did not want to say so, so that we do not get to you that it is urgent - that the social partners should come and say outside the door? And there are colleagues here who were social partners and I have not even heard a mild criticism. I am not expecting some kind of severe criticism from the Members of the House. However, I was expecting some colleagues who have a trade union background to raise something about it. Furthermore, Madam Minister, I am sure you are aware of the ESC Act, the philosophy of the institution and its practice at both European ESC and Greek level. The Committee is not yet an employer, worker or other institution, which we invite him to tell us his opinion and outside the door. The Committee is an institution where the draft is drawn up. And as the President has said - and he has also sent a letter to Mr Voutsi, which we all wish him 'permanently', I hope he will also come to the Committee on Social Affairs and to you - it would be a good thing if this bill were to come to the Committee. But do you really believe in social dialogue? Are you the ones who together with Mr. Brutsi, from what I have heard, will you change the trade union law? Be careful, I will not say that trade union law does not change and that it is the plates of Moses. However, I will say the obvious: have you consulted some kind of consultation? You see the institutions so well and I know very well that you have both been told about '50+1' and about cutting the right to strike and changing aspects of the trade union law. So you took the initiative, Minister, to call the social partners? Did you ask the Committee for documentation? What exactly did you do? Tell the Greek Parliament. Because we will not follow the New Democracy that will come along with you. Anyway, you're on the Shoeble level. [[Laughers from the wing of SYRIZA]] Don't laugh at all. You have all voted 'yes' in all. You raised your hands and voted. I ask, Minister: will you finally call on the social partners to consult and dialogue on changing the trade union law as you should or will not dare and bring it back from the door, having the backs of the New Democracy? I'm going to the insurance fund now. It has been heard not only here, but also in committee, that this law is coming to correct our own mistakes of our own insurance laws. Well, ladies and gentlemen, in order not to be fooled, all the articles on insurance capital are improvements to the Katrugalo Law. And it's not the first time. The sewer - was pouring into this law, supposedly reformist, has no precedent. Yeah, someone's in the positive direction. Because what are you doing? Of course, when you asked traders, scientists, professionals and crafters to pay, and now you ask them back, you stop asking them back. Okay. You see that in 2002, for someone to register and safeguard their insurance rights, it was a date of the Katrugalo Law, which was inapplicable. Another inappropriate aspect. So you bring corrections to the Katorugalou law. To remember, however, why here we are playing'social face' and we do not remember the basics. What did this insurance law and its development from Mrs Ahtsoglou, nr.4472/17? What do four hundred thousand pensioners have to tell us, who have a sum of principal and supplementary pensions of more than EUR 1,180 net, about the crumbs they now get from this bill, which they do not actually get? What do the three hundred thousand low-retirees who have lost the ESS for the sake of the Katrugalo Law and the additional 100 thousand who will lose it by 2018? Is that a social policy or a social injustice? Because the ESS had not been abolished and the unsettled mail Hardouvel had only one obligation: the modernisation of the institution of the ESS. You said yes to everything. You have abolished the ESS and you are, otherwise, the ones who will bring about fair growth. No growth will be brought, no fair men can be. And what will the two hundred forty-five thousand pensioners who see their supplementary pensions up to now be cut by even 49% and 50%? Why did you put a cap on the paramedics? Because the reductions in your law were huge. And what about the two hundred and eighty-five public pensioners who lose their dividends, while this money has been paid? Of course, Mrs Ahtsoglou, you also legislated a new cut in your own law of 18%, equivalent to a bleeding of EUR 2.2 billion in 2019. How are they going to get through 2019 and 2020 when the cuts, based on what you voted on - and you are angry when I told you that you were in Shoeble, the two of you - will reach 2,35 billion euros and 2021 will exceed 2,5 billion euros? And where are those countermeasures, really, that were nursery stations and rental subsidies? And that's it, it's 2021, it's 2022 and it's saying. Look, the Katorugalou law beyond these injustices and beyond the excessive burden of contributions, especially in the middle-class, of professionals and scientists, has also brought specialized injustices. It brought many - many minor social injustices, which we say as a Democratic Conservation, that if this government really wanted to bring about a law that improves its own regulations, it should do three - four more things that are based - be careful! - to the law of Katrugalu. What are these? These are those, ladies and gentlemen, which are included in the amendment that we have tabled as Democratic Incorporation by all Members with our head, Mrs Gennimata. I shall refer to the two - three main points where there are targeted, specific problems and social injustices. And I start with the widow's pensions. I don't know if you've seen it. There is also a Association of Wifes who have lost their man and who are mainly women, but not only women, and who are planting because they are under 50% cuts - the Katrugalo Law - compared to 70% that was before and which, if they have not reached the fifty-fifth year, are losing everything, although they may have to grow children. And indeed many of them have to raise children and study children. We are talking about extreme poverty here. Mercy! Support this amendment that we have brought for widows. Support her! Members of all groups know the subject. They know because it's too serious. It is very important to support this amendment. Secondly, you know very well that there is a big problem on the market and that there are many retired people, particularly traders and free traders, who have not been able to pay a dose and are now in the air. What do you do for those who haven't filled out the minimum years of insurance? We couldn't give a proportional pension, did we? We therefore propose a regulation which will go a little further than yours and which is simple: Debt arrangements for OAUs and EFFs up to EUR 35 000 since 2015, which is now in force in the OGA 12 000 compared with the EUR 4,000 that is now in force. This is a first relief. And a second relief is the trader or the free trader who has extra burdens to pay and cannot complete this money, to be able to receive a proportional pension. Look out! We do not adopt the instrument of proportional pension for all pensioners, but only for those people who have already completed or who, if they did not, could be retired and are now at God's mercy. Finally, I will talk about the farmers, who are suffering a great deal. Not only for farmers, but also for pensioners who have a small farm. And I am sure that, in the provinces, in particular, the parliamentarians of the province, and also the members of the Attica, like me, know cases of small farms. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] Mr President, I will not take more than two minutes. I want your tolerance. So we have such cases where we cut 60% of the pension for a small farm or retire 60% of the pension, because a retired person does two - three lessons in lifelong learning at a training centre at a second chance school. That's unfair. We can withhold, as was the previous arrangement, 10% of the few pay paid by pensioners who actually go to teach and take it to the AAGE, to the Fund for the Solidarity of Generations. We believe that this is fair and we want to support these regulations. I come to work quickly to say that in addition to group redundancies, where the PASOK had put a real red line - not for words - there is a great problem at the moment on the labour market, Mrs Ahtsoglou, and you know it. And any improvements to the type of 'we will also see in the articles', which we will vote on - we have no problem with the integration of overtime into the Erganis system, which we have discussed and how this can be implemented, because voting is a matter - do not change the overall picture. Look. I will not tire you - after all, I have no time - with further evidence. However, if anyone actually sees the elements of the "ERGANI", they will see that from July 2014 until today the trend is to increase rotating work and part-time employment. That's true. It's no use hiding now and artisting, not like that, not that. That's the truth. How do we deal with it? And we're not just dealing with it with the arrangements of this bill. I shall refer to another occasion. The accelerating of their own is in the positive direction. You know, however, that in the past such accelerations have been introduced for trials and, in essence, because of the problem that exists in the staffing and organization of Greek justice, it has left a letter dead. The law does not apply. We therefore want - and your explanatory statement says so - to go beyond these institutional wishes and some declaratory provisions, to see how actual protection of workers is actually being applied. Because beyond the elements of "ERGANI", we know very well that there is a jungle and that there are overtimes that are monkeys, which are supposedly extraordinary, and there are also the real emergencies, where on the one hand the worker must be protected and, on the other, the company must be helped. Make real social dialogue even after a holiday, to see how something can be done toward the positive if they are seen together by workers and employers. This quintusia of social dialogue. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Finally, I do not want to get off this step, if I do not say again, that, beyond our positive attitude to the provisions concerning disabled people, Mrs Fotio is missing at the moment, but I am sure that you will be conveying it to her - the representatives, both the ESDP and the individual bodies who came to the debate, even the one of the half-day we have done, as some issues have actually and in writing. I shall refer instantly only to two and say more to the debate on the articles: The two issues relating to the mechanism, which will support accessibility and removal of obstacles, are firstly to gain the dimension of decentralisation, namely to spread to the municipalities, regions and decentralised administrations, so that we have contact points there. I didn't see a response from the government. We're waiting! Secondly, it should be possible to codify the legislation on small and medium-sized enterprises. I think we should support this proposal from the ESDP. The government is united, says the Constitution, acts collectively, and this bill is an opportunity. Until tomorrow you all have the right to bring improvements to these articles, which, as we have said, are positive. Ladies and gentlemen, the time has come. We heard yesterday from Mr Janakopoulos that the assessment will of course be completed. If we compare this again with the government's words last year, we will remember that it took us the whole season to finish the second assessment. And the deficit in our development, that is, the low growth that we have in the quarter that has passed us, is precisely because this whole climate of "negotiating and going further and yes and we are supposedly negotiating and going beyond evaluation" does not benefit growth. This draft law will therefore also come down to the development process, and unfortunately also to social ones. These are just a few of us as a Democratic Independence, whatever is positive, we will vote on them. But, of course, we are not going positively towards this bill, which, as I said, is nothing but a sound low-flight bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u30	Thank you to Mrs Christophilopoulou, special buyer of the Democratic Association. We move to the special speaker of the Golden Dawn, Mr. Nikolaos Kuzilos. Mr. Kouzeli, you have the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u31	Thank you very much, Mr President. The title of the bill is: ‘Public pension regulations and other insurance provisions, strengthening the protection of workers, the rights of persons with disabilities and other provisions’. What one understands when he hears this is that you want to try to correct the tragic Katorugalou law, n.4387/2016. However, there is a problem here when one reads the explanatory statement, where you say: "This draft law introduces a set of institutional interventions in the field of labour and social protection aimed at strengthening and extending the rights of workers, improving essential aspects of their daily lives". All of this refers to the explanatory statement of the Katrugalo Law, the reform, the improvement, the creation of pension and insurance contributions. And here we see that a year and a half have passed, and what you are able to do is to bring in new amendments, new articles and paragraphs and to try to improve the Katrugalos law, because there are serious problems with him. And you continue: "Part I" is composed of a set of provisions aimed at speeding up the insurance reform, which has taken place with Law No.4387, the Katrugalou Act, where the full reform of the social security system is being implemented..." - stressing that the Court of Auditors has made unconstitutional and we will see this further - "... in the context of a single social security system..." - through which you cannot yet calculate pensions, because there is no mathematical formula - "... whose general principles are to ensure a decent living and social protection". Decent living with 350, 360, 400 euros, once the CSCE is cut? Another thing you have done with the Katorugalou law - and I am bringing it as an example - is the dividends of the share funds: EUR 9. That's decent living! Social protection with memoranda in the workplace we do not think there is, as you say, any more, equality, social justice, redistribution and solidarity between generations. Where'd you see all this in that bill? Of course, there are also positive articles that we will support. But there's nothing you're saying. In a working middle ages that is currently there is none of what you're saying. There is no support for the explanatory statement with these articles. And here we begin, to see that your explanatory statement does not stand: An inefficient pension is, according to the Katorugalou Act, number4387/2016, Article 2(3)? And if so, how is it calculated? You say that there will be a set of provisions aimed at strengthening the protection of workers. However, with all these provisions of the Memorandum Arc and with all these laws there is no longer a working grid or worker protection. There are collective redundancies, there are no more collective labour contracts, there is nothing. So, what are you talking about? You are also saying that you will enhance the effectiveness of labour legislation control and enforcement tools. In fact, very nice up here, very nice of those words you have written. In order to achieve this, however, you must strengthen the College of Inspectors. There is a simple example that we can give you, that there was a Labour Inspectorate in this region for the Piraeus Region specifically, where only the director was at some point, without any employee. So, what control mechanism are we talking about, what inspection, what inspection body, and how are you going to check this out? Finally, part IV "Confidences for the organization and operation of the Association of Social Workers of Greece", which is a legal person governed by public law, is in fact a typical part of the bill, which you could have brought at some other time. But here you do a nice trick. Because it's a statute in fact, you bring it and then a year and you bring it now. For what? To make it clear, if anyone votes in favour of this Party, that you bring many positive articles - say articles. In fact, it is nothing more than a statute for social workers. Let's see both the articles and the parts, the chapters of the bill. The Court of Auditors for Chapter I, Part I, at its fourth special plenary session, points out that legislative cohesion is lacking and continues: 'The problem, however, is that while the Court of Auditors' plenary has already ruled, repeating its previous opinion on 29-6-2010...' - since 2010 the Court of Auditors said - '... the inclusion of ordinary civil servants and officials in a single primary pension scheme with private sector members does not comply with the constitutional provisions of Articles 103, 107, 73, 98'. So, here we see that the Court of Auditors has ruled that the Court of Auditors is unconstitutional in substance and in the explanatory statement you are talking about social justice. And that's not all that's done. You come and add articles that continue exactly the same pattern that existed in the law of Katrugalos. You can also bring Article 3 ‘Determine pensions paid in accordance with the provisions of Law 4772/2017’ where there will in fact be a slight reduction in subsidiary fees. The question is with what personal difference. Under Chapter II of Part I, "Application provisions of Law4387/2016" you do some very nice tricks, because ICU is also coming. You give farmers the possibility to buy 20% on the lower income, which we will all see positively, but in fact, from where the farmers were going to give 70%, now they are giving 20% - you are giving them a gift - while you have cut them not only pensions, but you have increased their insurance contributions and taxation. So now we're talking about a crumb you're gonna give? And that's because of the ICU. All this will sound very nice in the ears of the world, but without seeing from the back what's going on. With this article you can say that you ensure decent living and social protection. Social protection when you do not allow the Greek farmer to have a field and take it to him, while currently giving illegal immigrants to go to fields free to cultivate them, etc.Huh? Why? Is that social protection? You forget that all that you have legislated in the Memorandum Arc - because, in fact, the Memorandum of Understanding is everything - New Democracy and PASOK would vote for and all those who have been ruling over all these years. So it doesn't change anything. Single is the whole. In fact, at the moment, you say that all these are monumental obligations and we want the country not to fall on the rocks. But with everything you do, the country falls down on the rocks. You are also bringing the amendment of Article 82 of Law 4170 which is in fact a formal provision for the ECA. Yes, but, in fact, the ECA has also been unconstitutional from the Court of Auditors when it groupes insured private and public sectors and free traders. You say you will help the free trader, make a gift for lawyers, engineer freelance professionals who, when you were trying to bring the Katorugalou law - and you brought him in - all of them had rebelled. And now you're trying to give them little gifts with this bill, so you can have something to tell the PD in fact. Also, I come to Article 42 of Law 4250/2012. Auxiliary pensions are now crumbs, not to be fooled. Here again we are asking this question as to whether there will be changes or reductions, with the existing rate of replacement. As long as you look at the specific modifications of this article, you see that it opens a lot, and the reductions will be far greater than they all thought at first, with the 0,45 you calculate. You also amend L.4174/2013 and Article 62 n.4170 where the Centre for the Collection of Insurance Debts, the CRL will acquire superpowers and unlimited access to the entire data of Greek citizens. In other words, this will be something like what you used to say, the Rambos of the IRS, something like that. They'll be able to collect all the data from the state's electronic platforms. Good! And the personal data you've been struggling for so many years and been on the railings and saying that there is personal data, are there?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u32	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u33	That's right, Mr. Brutsi. I'm glad you agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u34	Not yours. The layout is correct.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u35	Yes, but as it comes, it will be the new 'Rambo'. We'll have laughs there, too, like the auctions coming. Another complaint we have is to amend Article 101 of L.4387/2016, where you brought a typical article setting out the representatives of the officials at the Office and the medical boards of EKA for the period until the new agencies hold their election process. The institutions, however, because they were starting and shouting at the hearing of bodies and saying: "But we now have elections. Why did you bring it now? What is behind it?" The question of overtime should at some point be sorted out and organized a little better. As the Minister said, they will try to bring in a system with a simple message to declare overtime. Speaking to some friends and acquaintances, free professionals with small shops, they told me that a small-scale Greek company that has three, four, five employees or ten and has no permanent accountant, if he has sent the message at night and has informed his accountant and is going in the morning, what is it going to be? This has not been foreseen and has not been solved and all the problems will be created there. How are you gonna solve this? As regards, in general, the reduction of unemployment, as the previous speakers have said, it will not be possible to come in the way you do. As long as there are monumental politicians, no matter how many laws you bring, no matter how much you bring new "Katrugalos" and so on, there will be no reform. It will not live for a long time our insurance system, which is already part-time, at 50%, with armies of young pensioners, with young people who are looking for their luck abroad, with undeclared work at the moment in Greece, with allowances that you are trying to give, because there is no job, to a number of workers. The insurance system will collapse very quickly. The big bet you won't win - we're sure - and you can't win it, it's one: Business to the Greek worker. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u36	We proceed with the special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Mr President. Gentlemen of the government, bring in a bill claiming that you are faced with problems of employment rights and maintaining the whole anti-government framework created by the previous governments of the New Democracy and PASOK, but also all the measures that you have taken, such measures that the previous ones have not been able to take, which we have described as the dirty work that you have done instead. Workers should be aware that the previous period of adoption of measures that have not yet been implemented. Their implementation will exacerbate the already tragic situation experienced by the working people's families even more. In the face of the third assessment, the government is now preparing itself to the more than a hundred prerequisites it has agreed on, which relate to remaining working, insurance and privileged rights. The provision for large surpluses in the years to come has as the recipient the employees, the retired, the self-employed, poor farms. If they do not overthrow this policy, they will experience the constant attack that capital demands and serve their parties and they call for who can best manage capitalist growth and the needs of capital. Any cuts cannot change the reality that is the working jungle that has been formed with the four memoranda you have voted for, as well as the demolition of the social character of insurance. Years he has sought the big chapter to overthrow these two issues and you have responded by adopting his choices. You've given it all to business groups. You continue overturning workers' work and insurance, the great tax burden, leading a large majority of the people to great deadlocks, debts, seizures, auctions that are already fast-tracking at the heart of the people themselves. In this state of affairs, these arrangements in the bill look like a water tank with the coffin, as the people characterize something that is without reflection. A few months ago you accepted the request of business groups by legislating on the group redundancies and abolishing Sunday holiday. The core of the reversals which are the abolition of fixed daily working hours, secondly, full-time and stable working, thirdly, collective agreements, fourthly, the abolition of social security, you do not touch him. Elastic forms are already more than full-time and continue to expand. Slavery offices advertise in business groups that they have cheap workers, free from all liability. The restructuring of working time, combined with other anti-competitive arrangements, enabled the employer to employ workers according to production needs. Employers are constantly exempted from insurance contributions. You, as a government, implement non-wage subsidies, as you describe the employer's contributions. The same line is the State-exemption arrangement. These are all tools that you have given to the employer, in order to overcome any other regulation - the work you bring. You say that you are experiencing problems undeclared, denoted and unpaid, and you are asking us, the JRC, "But does that help the worker or not?" But you're not answering, Minister. We say that the overtime pay has been abolished in practice by adjusting working time. You claim that the framework is stricter. You say you'll check and secure the reward. But you're telling me the truth? Isn't that a lie you're talking about? Every year, Minister, redundancies and recruitment are equal. They show the recycling of active labour, one at work and one at unemployment. The redundancies are equal to recruitment for an indefinite or a fixed time, part-time or rotating work, with a continuous reduction in the rate of indeterminate recruitment and a great increase in flexible forms of employment. The regulation made by the former Government of New Democracy and PASOK, which you maintain, says that the trial period for a worker, i.e. the period for which, if redundant, he is not entitled to compensation, is two months. When in time, according to the information in the ‘ERGAN’, every worker is recycled, what compensation are you talking about? What is the right to compensation for this worker, who fired him a year ago, so that he has not established a right to compensation? You keep this as it was voted on. So without the establishment of a continuous, day-to-day, eight-hour or eighth-day, five-day, full-time and fixed work, with the abolition of tyres, the arrangement of working time and all those who were of a deterrent nature to redundancies, everything you say is infrequent. You're just kidding. For the voluntary withdrawal you claim to be putting an end to this blackmail, with the consequences, of course, on workers. But the worker today experiences a climate from all over the front of the political forces, other than the JRC, which invites him to tolerate the memorials, unbearable measures, politics, which ensures a friendly environment in entrepreneurship, which is nothing but the removal of all rights from the acceptance of this policy, which reduces the price of the labour force to the lowest possible level. The worker, therefore, in this climate, is blackmailed in the face of unemployment and the hunger to sign any paper given to him by the employer. And that is the result of the climate, which you are creating too. We are, of course, opposed to this worker's attitude, but we have often experienced it densely in recent times as a result of the great attack, the war, which is taking on all aspects of life from politics, which you and the previous ones are doing. That's why you often meet many employees to sign that they've been paid and not even got one cent. So there will be no practical repercussions as long as redemptions in labour relations remain, the abolition of Sunday holidays, the abolished collective labour contracts, as long as they do not become compulsory and are not extended, as long as the minimum wage at EUR 751 does not come back, as long as the horrific distinction between old and new workers, which led young people to wages of EUR 200-250 per month, is not abolished. Regarding the quick trial of the cases and the result that you have included in the draft law, in fact this arrangement is without reflection. Why? Firstly, because of the situation in justice with the lack of judges, secretaries, officers and other infrastructures. Secondly, because of the framework, which exists for the payment of the prizes. We, of course, tabled an amendment which you did not accept during the summer - and we now want you to answer whether you will accept it - which clarifies the framework for the recruits so that they are governed by the same logic as the gift. And with regard to the declaratory day, we have inside and the declaratory day which justice, the judge, is questioning anyway, because it is not precisely defined. However, by means of the worker's contracts, the pay date is fixed and, if not specified, it is the last day of the month. In addition, to extend the liability to the members of the board of directors and to the main shareholder. There are thousands of examples where workers have been unpaid for several months, such as the employees of ATHENS LEDRA MARRIOT, MEGA, the travel agency for the papers 'EUROPE', the company 'IRIS', the 'KARYPIDI' and thousands of other businesses. Eight hundred thousand are these workers, who are unpaid, as you have appreciated. Owners have qualities you know them. The other is the owner of a construction company, gets public works, gets warm public money. And yet, he's unreasonable and they're looking for the workers to find him because he's responsible for paying their salaries. It is also, without real reflection for a third reason. The SYRIZA Government with the Code of Civil Procedure in the event of bankruptcy, which several eagles use, ranked the demands of the workers in a more disadvantaged position, after the government, after the banks, after the social security institutions. What's left of it. You can accept, Minister, our request, that the workers should first come to their ranks for their claims in paid, in compensation and whatever is required. You refer to the possibility that unpaid persons will be eligible for unemployment benefit, as they will be decapitated from this situation. But from a million thousand who are registered unemployed and not even a hundred thousand are currently being subsidised under these conditions! And you leave the unemployed to "God's mercy", as our people say. And here, you're not talking about it. Nor do you accept the request by the trade unions to grant unemployment subsidies, for as long as unemployment lasts, with such an allowance that the unemployed and his family can be protected. Also, Minister, while the climate that you are shaping - and you, as a government - is that the measures are necessary - that is what you say - and the compromise, support for employers is necessary to make growth, you are now preparing beyond the collective redundancies that you have introduced, before the third assessment, to give another tool to be used to subject the workers further. What? The overthrow of the trade union law, with greater obstacles to trade union freedoms, rights, and in particular the blockade of a strike, which is the main weapon against employers and anti-government policies implemented by governments. It is the main weapon for claiming their rights, losses, as they have done in claiming their real needs. Prepare, as you have said, to codify labour law. Don't you dare bring the other one! Because it won't pass, as you've said. What does encoding mean? Permanentization, maintenance of all this anti-corporation framework you have done all this time, serving the needs of business groups for increased profitability. As regards the insurance arrangements, which are included in the bill, they are implementing arrangements for the 'ladder' Act, the Katrugalos Act, as you write in the explanatory statement. The first part is composed of a set of provisions aimed at speeding up the insurance reform. That's what you write. This law therefore implements the full reform of social security, i.e. continuing the scissors of the main pensions, the supplementary pensions, the widow's pensions, the slaughterhouse of disabled pensions and allowances through the CEPD as a precursor for a radical revision of the disability pensions and allowances committed in the light of the third assessment. You set the new rate at 0.45% by which supplementary pensions will be reduced further by more than 25%, with total losses on ancillarys exceeding even 80% in some cases. The cuts, the large slaughter even for those who have a few days of insurance, little pensionable earnings, i.e. the poorest, which you said you predicted a higher rate of replacement. Until now, your Government, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government has removed over EUR 16 billion from pensioners and continues to remove, beyond what it has already voted to cut from 2018 onwards, such as the personal difference. We're talking about a big massacre. As regards the release of the profession of engineer and lawyer from the payment of contributions, it is a relief. However, this is also an issue in which we have another perception. You do not do them firstly because they will not have insurance at the time, they will not be counted on retirement. We have therefore tabled an amendment calling for the time of unemployment to be normally counted as time in insurance with all pension rights. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to thank you, Mr President-in-Office, for giving you something that we have said in the committee, Minister, on the adherence to work. So far, you've been acknowledging for a month. This month, then you made him five. He's the Citizens' attorney with his finding resents you because you don't recognize all the time of work for the employees. And here we are tabling the Minutes, once again, the conclusion and we ask that you move on to its recognition. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Katsotis, presents for the minutes the above conclusion, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate of Stenography and Practice.]] On the question of the guidelines and organisational provisions for the implementation of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, we said it was a wish. In the face of your third assessment and commitment to redefining allowances, disability pensions and all this will be another tool, so that you can move forward with the slaughter of all those who have had to give up to now, through the struggles of the workers and the disabled movement. On the issue of social workers, we have also said in committee, it is a legal person governed by public law, which will be under the supervision of the Ministry of Labour and its aims will be to advise the government and implement the current government policy, which is anti-popular, anti-linguistic, which serves the objectives of capital and will always be, of course, contrary to the very needs of our people. Finally, Minister, a response to the information you have given on the wages of workers. You said they increased by 0.8%. The evidence, of course, was made public on the next day. Evil coincidence! And apparently, in 2016, workers have reduced incomes - both employees and pensioners - by 1.5% compared to 2015. And as far as the information you have given on 'ERGAN' is concerned, the 'ERGANI' itself, once again, disproves you. Because in 2009 we had 79% stable work and in 2016 we have 45.3%. It's your work. Also, the percentage of new recruitments with flexible forms of employment in 2009 and 2016 more than doubled. And finally, in 2009, recruitments with flexible forms of work accounted for 21% of all recruitments and in 2016 accounted for 54.7% of recruitments.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u38	Please complete your thoughts, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u39	Finally, in order to stop the hardships for the working class, it is necessary for employees of the labour movement to move overall against capitalist power, imperialist barbarism and its institutions. That is why we call on the workers, the people's layers, to co-operate with the JRC on this path of breakage and overthrow, on the road of the other kind of organization of the economy and society, with the keys to the economy and power in the hands of the working class and the people, to be stable, certain and its conquests.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Mr. Katsotis. Please come to Stepma, Athanasios Papachristopoulos, a special speaker of the Independent Greeks, who has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Mr President. I will start a little differently and reminiscent of what happens today in Greek reality. A while ago, ELSTAT, with growth rates up to the second quarter - but we all know that the third quarter is very strong - but EUROSTAT also anticipates growth in the country after too many years over 1.8%. It's likely to work 2% and it might work two more, with what that means. I would also like to remind you that the second assessment has been successfully completed. The temporary, experimental exit, for the first time after many years on the markets, was successful and the most important thing is that three rating houses, which are not friendly in any country, we all know that they have other rules and other options, and "MODY'S" and "FITCH" and secondly, "STANDARD & POOR'S", which provoke growth in the country, see positive pace. Macron, the President of France, who I believe will play an important role in how the European Union is structured in the future, is positive towards us and the first results, tangible, no assessment, is that after the meeting of the Prime Minister of the country from his return from Lisbon to Paris - this secret meeting that New Democracy made her viral, trying to find out where the Prime Minister was going - the secret and quiet meeting then, with the candidate for France, the first result was that 'TOTAL', a French megawatttage, together with 'EXXON MOBIL' - and this is the first tangible proof and answer to those who say that the government does not want investment - already works at Land 11 in AEZ below, with the agreement of Israel, Egypt, etc. These and many others exist, for example, a newspaper post that was very hostile to us, the "SUDDUTSCHE ZEITUNG" or the "HANDELSBLATT", now, two or three days ago, where they see positive growth in the country and that something is changing. I'm saying all this, because I don't know, is the power of habit? - I hear exaggerations, catastrophes, dangers again. I would say that everyone is judged on his choices, as are his opposition tactics. The right of Officerial Opposition or other Opposition is to choose the way it is opposed, an institutional role is. And I'm stopping here. I heard Mr. Brutsi, who was very aggressive. I will be tiring, but I will be reminded again to him and those who ruled forty years that in January all Greeks had already lost 1/4 of their assets, because GDP of 120% had gone to 180%. In January the country was in debt, not of course by this government, with 325 billion. In January - because I heard Mr Brutsis say something about unemployment - this government has received unemployment at 27%, a number - I am sorry to say it - which depresses any arguments of the people of the market, the people who believe in investment, the free economy. Unemployment at 27% is unauthorized! All this composes a country bankrupt. This is what this government has received - and forgive me for raising tons. It is therefore trying under these circumstances to improve what is not improved or slowly improved. I would like to say again about the Minister who makes the reform of insurance that there was no economist on the planet saying the opposite of what I would say: if there were no insurance reform in the next two years, there would be no pension for anyone. I am listening today to the pensioners of EUR 300, the 400 euros, and I have a post here, and I show you that, which is not "AGE" or "AFTERING OF CONTRIBUTIONS". It is the 'DIE WELT'. For those who are ignoring what 'DIE WELT' will say, it is a conservative newspaper, sort of like 'KATHMERINA'. He talks about EUR 800 billion Greek deposits in Switzerland and no one taxes them. 'DIE WELT', at that time. We expect a wise man to do his self-criticism. We're all wrong, Alas. Opposition to do, this is its institutional role, but this is different from over-examination, catastrophe, micropsy, and above all the hysterical option that we are seeing at the moment. Only today, for those who have not understood it, the Prime Minister of Greece along with the Prime Minister of Bulgaria launched a project that I have been listening to for years. We said "Bourgas - Alexandroupolis" and it never happened. For the first time, therefore, three ports are joined with another three ports. One is with the Danube. Those who have not understood what this act of Prime Minister means with the Prime Minister of Bulgaria, are entitled not to understand and degrade it. I would also like to say something that concerns me personally. Mrs. Ahchioglu is not responsible for anything. It is my fault - if I am to blame - that I am reading the exact wording of Mrs Ahtsioglu, which says this. Mrs Ahtsoglou said she would strengthen the College of Inspectors with a hundred and fifty more people, while in New Democracy Mr. Brutsis reduced the staff by two hundred. I misinterpreted it in committee and said it was fired. He didn't fire for that, and I apologize and I recast. Has anyone not informed Mr Brutsi that tax evasion in the country is sixteen billion a year? So has the organogram - indeed not fired, I give him credit for not dismissing - and abolished two hundred nine places? Did they find it to dismantle? I'm saying that because I saw Mr. Brutsi being aggressive. Let's go to the bill. I feel that the problems of work or some insurance aren't all solved by this bill. But it's a sign of writing what this bill says. So I'm numbered, with numbers, about nineteen, what exactly does it do. I read them: First of all, young engineers, young lawyers and new doctors have had a request for a long time, and they are forced to pay premiums while they are not working. It's a fair request. He's satisfying them. It disconnects the capacity when you don't work and you haven't opened books. They've been asking for it for several years. That was a fair request. That's number one, that's satisfied. Is that communal? I can inform you that the lawyers, doctors and engineers concerned are thousands. Secondly, there are favourable conditions for farmers to buy fictitious years. And this is communal? Do you know how many thousands of farmers there are listening to us? That communal, too? Thirdly, in the bill, the CEDEFOP waffles - and I say this in love for the CEDEFOP waffles because they are people who have incredible problems - until first they were nervous whether or not the disability pension will be renewed. It's not interrupted anymore. At least as long as the opinion of the CEDEFOP is pending, this shall be provided. These people are listening to us. Fourth, who dares and does this? About parentality, when a woman is giving birth and leaving for six months, must they be pensionable these years, yes or no? It's with this bill. The sick leave, when someone gets sick, happens to him, has to be pension years? Yeah. The education leave, when a person is trained to get a qualification in order to help his service, is it pensionable years? Yeah, it's with this bill. Even for people who are still on the table - Mrs Gerovassili explained to another committee today that it has nothing to do with redundancies at least because the crisis is now to be judged, and she has brought an amendment - it is a pension in the years. It is an anthem in labour legislation the fourth I read to you. Fifthly, I speak only with numbers, namely: the right to a pension, if one does not know, cannot have been exercised for three years. Ask some people who lost that right. Is it charming, yes or no? Six, previous categories paid contributions that they did not have to pay. These contributions are repaid. What's that? Of course, it makes sense, if somewhere else it owes this particular worker, once it has been cleared, to remain the final amount. Reimbursement shall be paid without undue delay. Seventhly, the ETUC and the GFCF themselves made the following request. A worker may, if he pays increased contributions, say 'I don't want you to cut me off, I want and I get more pensions'. This request was accepted. They've been asking for it for years in GSEW and SWEDEN. Eighth, an issue that was really troubled by the Ministry of Labour is that until 31/12/2014 there was a loose end with the subsidiary. I don't want to analyze it. I believe the Minister will unlock this for the years 2002 to the end of 2013. Ninth, there is a special provision for self-employed people and those employed independently. What's the special provision? So far, these people have not had the right to receive unemployment benefits. Is it charming or not? Is that communal? Do you know how many self-employed people work with the block? There's too many of them. They have the right to unemployment benefit and there will still be programmes for them to boost employment in their own countries. Tenth, undeclared work. This is where I want to stop, because it's very important. Some poor employers, 'in the mountain' - please forgive me the popular expression - have gone over the overtime of the workers. They put them in and worked five and six hours longer. The demand supply is against the worker. What can the worker say? He says he'll kick me out. Obligation on the electronic announcement of overtime. The bankers and the meta-industrials have shattered their faces. Do you know why? Because there were two hundred people in a big bank, that their overtime has not been declared. Eleventh, special point system for bad employers. And here, in order to avoid any misunderstanding, the question of closure is the extreme, last measure. Do I have your tolerance for two minutes, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u42	You have a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u43	Not a minute. Some got four and five. There is a lot to be done before we get to the shutdown of the employer. Mostly, when there is a public subsidy, it stops. There are more scales to get to the shutdown of the operation that the RCF can do. By the way, I would like to say a word about the S.H.I.E.L.D. This House risks its physical integrity every day. It must be strengthened, shielded and it must also have incentives. It's what hits tax evasion. A billion has entered the funds in the last month, beyond a billion, which has entered the banks, because Greek citizens are slowly starting to gain confidence. Twelfths, another obligation on employers, not only on electronic communication of voluntary departures, the worker while working learned it, but also on his signature. Thirdly, and here I am ending a great deal: unpaid work. Didn't Mr. Brutsis ever hear that they make workers pay not two, not three, not four months, but twelve, fourteen and fifteen, and fear not to lose their job, slut? The bill what he's doing about it? Let me here be more detailed. Issue of a payment order. There was never that thing. Execution at the expense of the employer's property. Have you ever heard of it before? This is the possibility for the worker, in the event of the remuneration not paid. Unemployment benefit didn't take. Now it's taking. The non-payment of the accrued amounts to dismissal. What does that mean? That he can claim compensation. Where'd the worker see these? Because they're coming too hard here. And it's a one-sided change by the employer. Let me also say to you: The Marble Ice "senses, leaves". This very government in July passed an amendment which'speaking, leaving' abolished. As a result, the worker may claim compensation after dismissal. And one more thing, except for the allowance: short trials. It is sixty days in the first place, thirty days in the second, and 30 days in the second. Who would have been a worker holding four and five and six and seven years of this procedure, denounced or sued? Are these communal? I'm asking you to know. I'd like to tell you, honestly, the following about the lawsuit...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u44	But please complete your thoughts.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u45	I want a minute, Mr President, for the first time today. I'm usually consistent in my time. I want a minute and I'll be done. The judiciary will no longer be burdened, it will be reduced or completely extinct. I would also like to say this, which is very important. They extend labour rights to maternity, parental leave, parental maternity and adoption. Have you ever heard of these things before? And yet, only with severe mental backwardness a couple or a parent could get permission from his job. Now he's taking down, gets with autism. Should these have been for years? Who's helping the worker? Who's close to him? I'm done. The Social Workers' Association - ask him - to convert to a person governed by public law what rights does it have? Ask these people who are listening to you, why some have tried to underestimate it. And finally, it does something good for employers. Those who declare that they are employed on a service note and convert the contract into an employed employee, pays them their premiums. I want to say this and I have finished, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance, that when the agencies came here - with the exception of three - four, not more - they were very consensual with this bill. It's a steep shape to hear sharp screams about a bill that's consented. I, with my ears, heard the President of the Athens Labour Centre - who we have not appointed, he is elected - say how positive he sees it, how positive it is, how positive the GSE is seen, which we do not control, but almost all the actors. I conclude by saying this: something changes in this country. I think it is up to us this positive climate to respect it as far as we can do, because we may be opponents, but we are not opponents with the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u46	Thank you Mr Athanasios Papachristopoulos, special speaker of the Independent Greeks. I'll beg that we be in time, and if it's less, even better. Mr Aristides Fokas, special speaker of the Centron Association, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u47	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, a bill with intense election air is presented to us by the government this time. This is the only way I can describe what is included in his articles and which I am sure the Prime Minister will be screaming as a winning banner, going up in a few days to Thessaloniki for the International Exhibition. He'll go up to the Stepma, apparently forgetting what he promised last year at the same point and, of course, never did. But can you explain why those announcements were left on paper, why did you all forget about them in the government as soon as you left Thessaloniki? Why have a portion of the professionals been excluded from this bill, since the contribution he promised last year never happened? We're talking about three hundred thousand free professionals. The Prime Minister said last year that the freezing of debts will give a breath to hundreds of thousands of small and medium-sized free professionals, who are squeezing under the burden of debt. What changed next? Have you decided to let them suffocate? So since you did not provide for them, let us help them with our proposal. Allow us, but also you, to find a solution to an issue that is afflicting hundreds of thousands of our fellow citizens. So you promised last year that the insurance contributions of professionals to OSH and EBRD will be frozen, which would have become due by the end of 2016. In this way, professionals who would pay their insurance contributions from the beginning of 2017 could regain access to medical care and be able to re-participate in the insurance system. It is our proposal that these debts should be transferred to the end, namely retirement. Then the insured person, if he has the financial capacity, will pay what he can and whenever they can and will be calculated at the end, when the pension time comes, as to whether he will get it as a whole or not to calculate the years he has to pay. This is a very important issue and I urge you to show sensitivity. I invite you to show that it was not a simple political terminology, just to have something to say from Thessaloniki. I will now focus on the articles of the bill. I think once again you're using disorientation tactics. You give some crumbs, you deal superficially with some issues, but unfortunately you forget the serious stuff. The benefits are good, we agree on that, but the unemployed want jobs, businesses want incentives and the market should move. I think there's not one in here who doesn't agree with that. Something you're trying to do at some point to protect the workers, but I see a sluggishness, perhaps even ignorance of the reality in which we live. Do not make it difficult for businesses that are literally struggling to stay open and do not promise unpaid workers and unemployed people that you will not be able to implement. In particular, in Article 38 you talk about an overtime announcement at the beginning of each working day. Yes, we agree to a proper record, but what we ask and ask now is impossible. Do you know what will happen if this article comes into force? We'll accumulate the violations without solving the problem. Articles 49 and 51 refer to the issue of afflicting change in work, the non-payment of wages and the protection of workers. Of course, we are in favour of the protection of workers. We would like to point out, however, that the bad employer should not be identified with the person who, on a temporary basis, may be faced with some liquidity problems, which he can then solve. There are many entrepreneurs who, during the year, find it difficult for a short period of two and three weeks and cannot pay the week-end on time. These are not systematic fraudsters. They are facing a temporary problem. Do not help other companies who are really struggling to survive in this difficult period. As far as the process of rapid labour disputes is concerned, it is something we agree with. Sadly, however, we all know first of all the citizens, who have been going to courtrooms for years, that the time you are announcing will never be achieved. Or did you find some kind of magical way that's going to empty the plaques in the courtrooms, so that the work affairs can be discussed more quickly? Do you know what ordinary people say about some of the articles in this bill? That they can't be applied. These people, whom you've done to kneel down from the tax burden, realize that many of what you're saying, most likely, will stay on paper alone. Working in hostages, even if they receive the allowance you promise in Article 53, they already know that they will not be able to return it if they are not entitled to the courts. We also see that, among other things, the government is trying to establish by Article 16 rules on the reimbursement of contributions to the insured of the ECA. It is something that we would really like to see in practice, not only us, but I imagine those who believe will benefit from this measure. With your bill, however, you once again beat the retired. In your article on supplementary pensions, you are hiding 25% reductions, which are to be added to the already low earnings of these people, when the main pensions have been reduced by over 45% over the years of the crisis. I was ashamed to hear the President of the Federation of Pensioners of Greece IKA and Auxiliaries telling them that we no longer need them - so they described us - because they gave their lives, they offered the insurance system, they offered the GDP, and now we throw them in the trash. It's a disgrace to us. You and the relevant Ministry may still call "retirement" the minimum money paid by Greek pensioners, but they themselves call them "pre-retirement benefits", with which they are unable to live. Perhaps you have been informed of the huge delays in pension issues. Three years are needed for the main pensions and about four to five years for the subsidiary. Unfortunately, there are worse things than that. With the reductions in pensions due to the personal difference, pensioners will be found to owe end-of-life and will be asked to reimburse back money. Do you understand that? Temporary pensions issued for thousands of pensioners, unfortunately, will be greater than the main pensions, which will ultimately be entitled, so they will have to pay back money. These are happening in this country with this left-wing government, which, instead of solving injustices, puts its citizens into impoverishment. It may escape you, but with these poor pensions, there are now whole families who have been hit by unemployment. With their weakness, these people are today supporting society and giving dignity to their children and their grandchildren. When pensioners are affected, the whole society is affected. No, we're not negative, we're just trying to point to the weaknesses of your election plan. Of course, we agree with the articles on SME. In anything that makes the vulnerable groups easier, you'll find us in agreement. As we also agree with Article 60 on the protection of the elderly and the elderly, but also on the arrangements for accidents at work, we are not negative. We just think you're trying to cover the serious issues with, above all, regulations. We also agree with Article 47 on special parental leave in cases of serious illness, with Articles 46 and 48 for the protection of surviving motherhood, but also with Article 32 for exemption from pharmaceutical expenditure on earthquakes. Support workers, support pensioners who are struggling to help their unemployed children. Support this society, which is currently literally rejoicing. But I'm not sure you can do that with the bill you submitted. Do a favor in this country: Leave aside your election terms, forget that they are coming to elections and that you need to present a nice story to the ICU. Do not share crumbs on the herds of this finished country. The Centro Association will vote'residences' in the first place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u48	Thank you to Mr Aristides Fokas, MP and special speaker of the Centroon Association. Thank you, too, for the consistency in time. The special speaker from the river Mr. George Mavrotas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Mr President. This draft law on insurance and labour law comes with speedy procedures, it seems, so that we do not lose our form from the closure of the previous session, when we have worked out and voted or voted against five bills in the last two weeks. In fact, this bill comes to pass in a series of other draft laws that had been submitted, without even having been consulted. Even the operators were agreed by telephone. 'But do you not agree with many provisions?' says the government, 'Why do you stick to the process?'. But, because at the end of the day, the process is a substance. So quickly and manually, the Katorugalou law was also passed and now we're coming back to fix it. Then, there was the excuse to close the first assessment, now the excuse is to open the 82nd International Thessaloniki Fair, that is to say, to have the Prime Minister present Saturday a working success story. And as we said in the committees, in the workplace, it has become the so-called cherry picking, that is, you have chosen the good cherries and you have left them chewed for later, to have the basket of PPC the good cherries and not the hard ones. You leave for post-evaluation issues, prerequisites, such as trade union law. Indeed, since the French President-in-Office is coming tomorrow, he will be interested in commenting on the work reforms he is promoting. Are they neoliberals, as you like to baptize everything that doesn't suit you and everything you fight back? What if they are neoliberal and hideous, why is the enthusiasm and expectations from the arrival of the French President? But let's go to the bill. In Part I, in Articles 1 to 32, we have a string of fragmentary provisions concerning insurance provisions and come to correct errors, injustices and omissions by the Katrugalo law. There is, once again, a set of amendments to the law, that is to say, continuing sewage. We have expressed to the committees some questions we have had about certain provisions. Some have been answered by Mr Petropoulos, such as that early pensions now only concern disabled people and victims of accidents at work. In fact, Mr Petropoulos told us, on the basis of Article 11, when we told him our concerns, that the free traders would pay little contributions and that is why they would like to give more. Didn't you say?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u50	GSEVER says so. Here's the painting.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u51	Yeah, that they're giving a few contributions they're telling GSEE. Okay. However, some questions have not been resolved, such as why the favourable provisions of Article 4(2), namely that the three-year limit for retroactive power does not exist, to apply, as paragraph 2 says, only to civil servants, posteriori and hereditary, and not to workers in general in the private sector. In Article 14 we asked what is needed to maintain the empty organic positions in the NAT and the OGA, empty organic positions for organisations that are effectively deactivated, apart from being used as voting receptors in the future. In Article 12 it does not agree with us that the Minister will determine the EVKA, even when on 20 June 2017, that is, about two and a half months ago, Mr Bakaleksis, the Governor, said in his briefing that the establishment plan will soon be ready. Where the issue is, and we want ministerial decisions on the functioning of the agency again, is a question. To say, however, something good, Article 22 is about to restore an injustice, not to relate insurance to the status of an engineer and lawyer, but only to the start of the profession in the tax office. In Part II, from Articles 33 to 51, we have work. Measures are finally coming for undeclared and unpaid work, fragmented, but necessary. The bill contains a series of arrangements for industrial relations, the strictening of the framework, to combat undeclared unpaid and unpaid work. And especially for the latter, for unpaid work, let us say that the Potami had held a campaign last summer, entitled "You work. Are you being paid?", which was precisely this particular subject, which has taken a great deal of time. It is undeniable that rules are needed and workers' rights are protected. However, the procedures must not create so many malfunctions, particularly in small and medium-sized enterprises, which will lead them to stranglerisation. In other words, we must find the gold incision between the two, and there we could draw examples from other European countries or from ILO. For Rule 38, which concerns the prior declaration of overtime in the 'ERGAN', there has been a lot of discussion in the committees. There's got to be a golden incision here too. The best thing would be to do in an easy way, such as an application on a mobile or a sms. We have also heard Mrs Ahtsoglou refer to this. There's HICP, who's given tests and succeeded in computerization projects, which could contribute. And that would be very favourable, especially for small businesses, because there are small businesses that do not have organised accounts which do not work this afternoon when a decision can be taken on overtime. A simple and easy process will therefore ensure both employers and workers, protecting the first from bureaucratic burdens and the second from arbitrary abuses of bad employers. This is the work of an effective state, not only legalisation, but also applicability. We then agree on employment issues for people due to mental illness and their exclusion from the pension cut, since they are employed for reasons of psychosocial rehabilitation. In the right direction are forecasts for adolescent mothers, as well as special parental leave for parents or fosterers of children suffering from severe mental deprivation or Down syndrome. Part IV and Part V are positive. Part IV creates a framework under the provisions of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities in order to treat our fellow citizens with disabilities equally in their relations with the State and all other bodies of public life. I would like here to note something that I have listened with great interest to the committee, to the hearing of the bodies, by Mrs Colotourou, by the representative of the 'Audience', who is a move towards accessibility of deaf and gravitous for oral reason. It also calls for the live subtitle system to be applied in our country, the speed to - text system, in the work of various bodies, which is already being implemented abroad, such as the European Parliament. And given that this fully forms part of the objective of Part IV of the bill and also that we have top scientific potential for innovative solutions in the field of technology, voice, digitisation and processing of the oral word - recently the “INNOETICS”, a spin off business by the Institute for the Word Processing of the “ATHENA” Research Centre, was purchased by SAMSUNG, which shows that there is the scientific potential for such applications - you can launch it and find other such synergies of science and provision in the wheelchair movement - ELEPAP is such an example - in order to best implement the forecasts in Part IV of the bill. Part IV is the creation of a legal person governed by public law for social workers. Also, positive. To the rest of my speech I will go to two issues that I have raised in the committees, but I have not seen to be taken into consideration or answered. The first is something I'm going to say in every bill. It concerns the ministerial decisions, which are provided for in the bills and are made by the state. In this bill I counted fifteen times the phrase ‘by decision of the Minister shall be regulated, determined, etc.’. When? Anytime. Apart from Article 75, which deals with disabled people, there is a four-month time limit for ministerial decisions in all other respects. I believe that this way of legislating, the vague adoption of regulations, the ministers concerned throw the ball into the lane. They reassurance those who probably disagree with this provision, as they will not apply directly, and comfort administrative departments that have no reason to speed up changes that will likely unravel situations. But the ministers themselves have the steadfast alibi that they did their job, they legislated. However, implementation and implementation are their responsibility. The applicability of what we vote or vote on is thus placed at the discretion of the acceding parties, who may not be so willing or may not even exist. There is no commitment from the services, no commitment from the Minister, no commitment from anyone. The Minister's decision 'will be prepared' and the circular will be prepared, and in the meantime the citizens are suffering from a transitional situation, as many have been - with 'yes', not 'yes' - I am referring to the pretext, not the Minister. In this bill, too, we see that being done. The provisions by the law of Katrugalos have not been implemented and are afflicting the world. Why? Why have no ministerial decisions been made for eighteen months? Now we're going to Article 8 on accidents at work, and we're going to sort of patch it up. It is, therefore, something we will say in every bill: a timetable has to be set in every ministerial decision provided for in the bill. Let us say "within three months, the ministerial decision will be made within six months, within 12 months", so that the administration will be bound, controlled and evaluated. Or we'll talk about bills of wishing. I would like to hear some comments on this later from the Ministers. The second point concerns the Minister in particular. It has nothing to do with this bill. I have said so at the first meeting of the Committee on Morphic Affairs. He didn't feel the need to answer me. Since November, when you took over, I have asked ten questions and three reports and I have not received an answer. A total of forty - four questions and references to this ministry. Nine have been answered by the Deputy Ministers, Mr Fotou and Mr Antonopoulou. I understand, of course, that the workload can lead to delays in answering, one being forgotten, but one being forgotten, ten out of ten, it seemed strange to me. And say that there is a need for any particular business plan, in which it is difficult, as Mr Flavouraris said, to say, in his sincere but politically macabre statement. Only political will is needed for basic management, an elementary project management. You have that, I hope. Unless, of course, we regard parliamentary scrutiny as decorative and that Members are asking questions simply to measure Parliament's magazines without any interest in the answers. That is not the case, at least for everyone, and I think it would be advisable to explain why this disgrace on the procedures of parliamentary control. Is deception personal to me, party to the river, or general? But not to upset her, she's not the only one. And I wonder if she's received this from the Ministry of Health, which also deserves to be answered from there. And because it is a new and up-and-coming Minister, it seemingly makes me disgraceful that it should adopt derogatory attitudes towards the Members of Parliament. To conclude, therefore, because the time is running out and to be within the limit, because we will soon be in this House to discuss the work - as the evaluation comes - we will prerequisites for legislation, from what I understand, again - I put a top point, saying, on the occasion of some statements made by the Prime Minister on profitability in his visit to "APIVITA". Profitability is the driving lever in the free economy. It is inappropriate to regard it as something hostile, a bad thing for society. There will be no investments, no businesses in a free economy. In any case, there are no injurious operations. The enemy of society is not the profit, it's greed. So if we are to deal with something, it is greed and that is where we must aim for any institutional framework. But where can one put the limit between greed and benefit? That is the big question, and that is where the principles of sustainable development come in, where, apart from economic, we put the social and environmental components together. The best combination of these three criteria, which will combine economic development, social cohesion and environmental protection, is the great bet of modern societies and must be the compass of all decisions. In sustainable development, however, the best solutions cannot be extreme. The most attractive solutions to multi-critical problems, namely problems with many criteria, are not where only one criterion is optimised, but where the criteria are getting married, where all criteria have satisfactory performance and this area is the centre. And if this center is open and wide, even better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, Mr. Mavrotas, special speaker from the river. The Minister for Finance, Mr Euclidis Tsakalotos, has the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u53	Why is the Minister taking the floor now?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u54	The Minister has asked for information for a moment - as you have heard, he has asked me, I have given him ten - the House on the course of the negotiations, all that is being done and I think it is very useful. In that sense.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u55	When will your clarification be made of the timing of the speech?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u56	Once it's done, I'll tell you in detail the time the meeting is going tonight. After the Minister, the President of the Golden Dawn Parliamentary Group had asked for the floor to speak. Then the ministers will talk. You have also asked for the floor - and you are aware of it - immediately after the Minister, and we will proceed with the list of speakers. We estimate that today we can go by about twelve and a half at noon, one hour at the latest, so that we can start early tomorrow, so that we can finish early at noon at noon at one, since all the roads around the House House will be occupied by the visit of the French President. But that's what I'll talk about and then, if I have to.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u57	After Mr. Chakalotos is finished.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u58	After Mr. Chakaloto, Mr. Michaloliacos will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u59	After Mr. Chakaloto, will we talk about it?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u60	Then we'll talk about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u61	We've come to an agreement. Mr. Chakalotos will speak. Mr. Michaloliacos will speak. He had asked Mr. Skourletis to come and talk about an amendment, and then...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u62	We, as soon as the Minister finishes, can we talk about this? For five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u63	Then Mr. Michaloliacos will speak and we'll talk about it then. But let's move on. Mr. Chaakalot, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a relief for this House as much as it is relief to me, as you will have noticed, that they have not raised my ears in the last three days. Because I read that I went to Brussels and my ears were ‘handed out’ for the privatisations that have not been done. No debate has taken place on privatisation. I read that our ears were pulled out for the prerequisites and because we have been delayed, we were put in new prerequisites. The journalists who say this have not even read the European Union's announcements, that it was a hundred thirteenth by the end of the programme and ninety-five of what we are trying to do by Christmas. Nothing's changed in this. I am also reading that my ears have been ‘handed out’ because we have made bills without having informed them. I must tell you that neither was there any reference made in Brussels to the meeting I and George Juliarakis had with Pierre Moscovisi. You know this bill has shown it to the institutions. They may have some objections, we will see, but our view is that there is no backtracking at all - the expression of institutions, when we get back things we have agreed - and that it is a 'rightful' bill that broadens rights in a way that should have deep support.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u65	For this bill?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u66	For this bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u67	Don't interrupt, Mr. Brutsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u68	I'm interrupted by habit! It's instinctive. It doesn't work out. I have to tell you that no mention has been made of Mr Moscovici in this bill or any other bill we have submitted and we are asked, as I read, to take it back. That's what I said, so, my ears are like you're used to and loved. This bill is part of the strategic exit from the crisis. It's not a bill that we brought, as I hear, before the IGC or for impression. It's at the core of how we imagine we're getting out of the crisis. It is part of our entire plan, when we get out of the crisis, to go out with the bill, with some principles, with some values and some institutions that say we will not return to the economic model that was before 2009. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] I remind the good colleagues and the good colleagues that the immediate reasons we entered in the 2009 crisis - the other reasons may be deeper - were three worldwide and not only in Greece: the first was the financial system. The second was macroeconomic imbalances, with large surpluses in the balance of payments in some countries, with large deficits in some other countries, and the third was inequality. I'm filing four diagrams to see what's happened to the work share after 1980. [[At this point, the Minister, Euklidis Tsakalotos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It's all over the place. In social democratic governments, neoliberal right governments, everywhere in the Western world, the share of labour has fallen. How will Europe escape the crisis when we have not tackled this issue worldwide? So there is no model for the world of work to say 'there will be growth, but you will also have a place in this development'. There's no such model. We have no plans to deal with inequality and there are no plans for the other two, but it is not the time to discuss macroeconomic imbalances and the question of banks, which we have not made the restrictions on the issue of banks. I just want to finish my speech with two comments on the bill. One concerns the economic sector. Other speakers have said so. Mr. Mavrosh insinuated it or said it in greater detail, that in the capitalism we had before 2009 in Greece we favoured the bad businessman. In other words, you were all talking - even social democracy - about turning to neoliberalism and about competition and the lack of rights, about not being able to pay workers, not telling workers, obviously favoured bad industrialists and bad entrepreneurs. You were tempted by the model that existed before 2009, incentives for the worst kind of capitalism. And now, all that reduction we had in the labour market has nothing to do with productivity growth. None. In other words, in the same period - and this seems in the last table - the share of labour has decreased, but productivity has declined as compared to that in 1980. No financial result has been achieved with this policy. Because you deliberately did so and the employer has always had the easy solution, not to say workers, not to pay them, to reduce wages. You did not make the positive arrangements and framework that would force the employer to invest in new technologies, new products, new markets. That wasn't the model. That's why I'm saying it's part of the negotiation and out of the crisis. Because we have promised and can look at the new without turning to the old 2009 model. But for us it's not all about economy. It is not just that we believe that this will help the economy and increase productivity, because it will push employers to find other ways of gaining and not by reducing wages and bad labour relations. It's also a matter of rights. I have often told the people of PASOK that the name 'Social Democracy' comes from the historic desire of the social democrats to extend democracy from the political sphere - which we are voting on, we are making strikes, demonstrations - to the economic sphere. That was the original idea. That is why the three pillars - which were shattered by all three - the times of Simitis, the times of Srender, the times of Blair - were first in favour of the trade unions, second in favour of the redistribution of income, and third in favour of the social state. All this has been demolished. You will be reminded by the good companions of the JRC that in "Kefalio" there is a very important point that Marx speaks of freedom and says that freedom of capitalism ends at the entrance of the factories, that what Bentham says about liberalism and the free market is in the slow and as soon as you pass the factory gate. We say that people - both workers and workers - are indivisible. You cannot be a democrat in the political sphere, vote and talk, both at the factory and at the workplace, to be a slave. That's not how human nature works. If you want to have democracy, if you want to have people who are thinking and critical, there can be no gate to the workplaces that say: "Here you forget democracy, here is only the will of the employer or the boss." And that is our big difference from this side of Parliament. Because this development model, which we promote, will be both fairer and more developmental and regardless of the economy, will try to create people who have self-respect in both the political sphere and the social sphere and the labour sphere. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The President of the Golden Dawn Parliamentary Group has the floor...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u70	Mr President, the Minister of Finance has spoken...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u71	Mr. Colleague, I didn't give you the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u72	Mr President, he said he would inform the House of the issues of fiscal policy and did a political, ideological speech on the Left and the messages he believes. What are these things? Is that the Minister of Finance?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u73	Mr. Brutsi, please don't interrupt the procedure. Anyone who wishes to take the floor will become the President of the Golden Dawn Parliamentary Group. Excuse me, but he has that right.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u74	Mr President, I would now like to speak. Not after.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u75	Mr Loverdos, because the Bureau is aware that you have asked for the floor, we will give it to you and to anyone else who wishes to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u76	Now it makes sense, under the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u77	Mr. Michalop, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u78	Ladies and gentlemen, the previous Minister, as a good Marxist, said capitalism is good and bad. That's not what I mean. He also said that according to what he has read and studied in Marx's capital, freedom ends at the entrance of the factories. Now I understand why for two and a half years SYRIZA has closed down so many factories and led national production from evil to worse. The Minister also said that before 2009 there was a bad capitalism, while on the day of SYRIZA they make a good capitalism. In short, because in this country everything is happening and everyone is what he said - as the late journalist and politician George Pope said - the SYRIZA officials, even the Prime Minister, can easily say communists and at the same time pursue a harsh capitalist policy. Because I do not think the capitalists, who took public works with the excesses of hundreds of millions of euros before 2009, of whom the Greek people paid recently in the works that were commemoratively inaugurated, were not different. They were the same intertwined contractors. Money is therefore available to contractors, but also to so-called refugees, among whom most are illegal immigrants, where an entire industry has been established. Unfortunately, they did not concern the public life of the country with what happened in Tallinn, Estonia, where Greece was invited to participate in a conference of the countries of Europe, where the crimes of communism would be condemned. And of course, it's not just the communism that committed crimes. National socialism, as well as democracy, did, in or out of import. Elected were the ones who dropped atomic bombs in Hiroshima and Nagasaki. As far as New Democracy and its reaction are concerned, however, it has once again demonstrated how far away from the so-called Right is. She spoke with her announcement and told SYRIZA she wouldn't report the crimes of Stalinism. Before I mention what happened in this country, I would remind you that in early 1953 Stalin died. On the occasion of this, the workers of East Germany rose up, asking for more rights, and the Soviet tanks drowned them in the blood. Then there was no Stalin. Let me also remind Hungary in 1956, when the Hungarian people again sought traces, a ray of freedom again drowned in the blood of the Soviet army's red tanks. There was no Stalin. Why are you afraid, gentlemen of the New Democracy, to denounce these things? Until a few years ago, you went to the commemorations of the massacred by the Communists. Now why are you quiet? Why are you silent about the fact that a party that governs the country has a party that participated in these hate celebrations? Top officials of the Independent Greeks went to the anniversaries for the Makrigiannis Constitution. And now you are together, companions, hugs and refuse to condemn the crimes of communism and you are generally speaking about Stalinism. Stalin was in 1968 in Prague? Of course not. And they took the occasion of SYRIZA's executives, completely falsifying history, saying that the break-up took place in 1968 on the occasion of Prague's Spring. Big liar! The breakup had taken place since the Spring of Prague. Furthermore, immediately after the Inner KEE found no loving embrace in any democratic country, but in red tyranny, in a Marxist dictatorship, such as the Tsaucescu regime. A few days ago, in the center of Piraeus, a group of so-called anti-powerholders that you are protecting and who are actually creating conditions of a civil conflict, attacked a regional advisor of the Golden Dawn, the competitor Pericle Mullianakis. No party - and I denounce to you - of all of you, who represent democratic and constitutional parties, has denounced this attack. Do you really think of the possibility of an attack by nationalists and Goldenmen against the regional adviser of another party from what is in Parliament? What headlines would there be in the yellow fliers of the interlocutory that you control? What kind of fire announcements would come out of the channels? Now, be quiet. None of you condemned this and this shows how little, how little, and how much selective democrats you are. You are all the party of the political parties together, and this is evidenced by a fact. You all get funding, except for a party within this House, the Golden Dawn. You've all elected Vice President, except for a party within this House, the Golden Dawn. You are the system and we are the power of the Greek people, who resist within the framework of the salvation of the nation and of the country. [[Applause from the ward of the People's League - Golden Dawn]] On the occasion of the resolution in Tallinn, Estonia, a letter was published by the PASOK MEP Mr Kalis, to whom she said about the murder of her grandfather. You immediately replied that she wasn't her haematological grandfather. I am pleased that even once you agree that biological continuity is of some importance, but I find you very racist, in order to use such arguments. Crimes have been committed from all sides - I will not hide behind my finger - and we must condemn them all. But with re-occurring policies of this type it is not possible to move forward. And I will remind you of something else, another horrific crime, Pope Skreka in Thessaly that had been skinned alive and had become a statue there and was removed and you never placed it. It is not possible, therefore, for those who want national reconciliation to only want this to happen on the one hand. At the same time, we have a great strengthening of Turkey. Turkey is supplied with S-400, with a powerful anti-missile system and our borders, our national sovereignty is constantly being violated. NATO's attitude of evil and fraud a few months ago was to become the patrols from NATO ships and where at the request of Turkey the islands of the Dodecanese were excluded, because it is a demilitarised zone. We have also heard some statements and some arguments that Turkey cannot violate our borders because it is a borders of the European Union. So, what's gonna happen? Will the Maltese and Luxembourg troops come to defend Chios and Mytilini? Will Germany, France, Italy, be interested if Turkey is attacking us? No, of course not. These are lionisms without the courage. At the same time, according to the European Union's official commissioner on terrorism, five hundred thousand Islamists, jihadists, terrorists exist in the countries of Europe. What are you doing? Nothing. Dublin II continues and we expect, in fact, a return of illegal immigrants from Germany because they are established illegal immigrants and not refugees. You sent them as refugees, but they're illegal immigrants. And what does the state do? It has set up a new industry, the industry of non-governmental organisations, where hundreds of millions of euros are scandalous. The new project promoted by non-governmental organisations is to rent apartments to refugees and illegal immigrants. As has been reported to me, in the town of Kilkis, but also in Thessaloniki, the apartments are much more expensive to rent than the current price they have on refugees from the NGOs so that they do not find accommodations for students and soldiers. A great industry is the NGO and the famous integration of the so-called refugees, and at the same time we have the Greeks - hundreds of thousands of Greeks - with red loans in danger of losing their homes and all of them wonder how it is possible for our state to give shelter to those who illegally entered it and not to give shelter to Greek citizens. With regard to the current draft law, which concerns pension regulations, this is a piece of legislation, which is indeed a memorandum of law, and which is why, apart from some beneficial provisions on which we will stand by and decide, we will vote against it. Only the fact that this bill defines the national pension at 345 euros is a disgrace. You have made Greece Bulgaria even worse, because in Bulgaria unemployment is 6%, while in Greece the official is 22% and it is much larger in reality. We also had another important event, which also went through the fines, the Gabriel statement to the German Parliament, where he said that Soible insisted that Grexit should be done by the end of 2016, and that thankfully Merkel saved us, because otherwise - be careful - it would not be destroyed - it says - Greece would be destroyed. It is a problem for Europe to get Greece out of the euro. And that's not what you take advantage of and you're subjecting yourself to. You're always lying to the Greek people, thinking they're all naive. But I would also like to end by finishing an article, which the Prime Minister wrote, in a Sunday newspaper, which was the main theme of the newspaper and was entitled: 'It was the Andrew Liar'. Three pages is the Prime Minister's article. I read it carefully. He doesn't say anywhere he was the Andrew Liar. You are the new PASOK and you admit it and, indeed, about the charges of populism you say that if SYRIZA - the Prime Minister says features - he is accused today of being accused of the party that has taken over the thread of these goals, of PASOK, then the accusation is accepted. Furthermore, in the same article it speaks of the declaration of September 3, SYRIZA’s companions, and it also says that millions who have been oppressed for decades of expatriation have had the opportunity with PASOK to take revenge on their dreams. What was revenge in their dreams? Take a place in the public service? Create this client state that bankrupt the country? And you're preparing for new assignments. But the Prime Minister dissociates his position in his article from the descendants of PASOK, referring to the government of Simitis, saying that he honors the old PASOK of Andreas Papandreou. There are eight candidates to date for the PASOK presidency. Perhaps a ninth should be added. His name: Alexis Tsipras! You are the new PASOK, whether you want it or not, and with your Prime Minister's own confession! But there is something worse that SYRIZA is charged with, which is a sad minority now in the Greek people and if he had political honesty he should resign because he does not express the will of the majority of the Greek people. So the worst thing you've done is not that you didn't slit the memorials, but that you convinced the people with this tough, anti-popular policy to accept and worship this policy of the memorials. Against all those who, today passively, have accepted this anti-national and anti-liberal policy, the Golden Dawn declares the word of the race, paves the way for the struggle and calls on the Greek people to resist for a new Greece, without monuments, without hostility!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u79	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u80	Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u81	Mr President, as a parliamentary group, we have heard the Minister for Finance inform us, by interrupting the procedure - and well he has done - of the discussions he has had in the light of the evaluation and of disputing reports that he wanted to have some problems. This information is welcome! Of course, we always have reservations about what we hear from government officials and from the Finance Minister, because many things have told us here. I remember at the end of 2016 telling us about the debt and nothing of what you said did not happen. That is how I remember many other issues, giving assurances and reasons for honour and not being respected. I wish this time what you said was like this. However, you have made a reference, which we have moved and asked for the floor, that this draft law that the House is discussing today to vote on is one of the steps out of the country's crisis. That's what you said. I think that the briefing you have from the Ministry of Labour is not accurate and you are wrong and you are being exposed, because this draft law, Mr Minister, has a first part, which has to do with insurance, with about thirty-two articles, the thirteen of which correct sins of the Katrugalo Law. In fact, one of them, the first, makes four changes to the Katrugalo law. It also contains provisions on occupational dictation, which I cannot know! However, where Article 50, ladies and gentlemen, and Mr Minister, stipulates that in the event of a late payment of workers, he is entitled to request payment of a payment order, where Article 50(4) also refers to the opposition to the payment order and the suspension of the execution of the payment order, he understands a very inexperienced increase in the legal matter. I'm an active lawyer, I have no objections as a professional. But as a politician in this Chamber too, I think we should see what the government brings us to vote. Are you relying on these articles to say that it is a draft law exiting the crisis, and in the context of the policies of a ministry that has, on your day, made the greatest cuts in the EAW, which abolished it, disappeared it, in the main and supplementary pensions? Minister, the briefing on the evaluation is welcome, but all your other reports, unfortunately, were completely unstable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, Mr. Loverdo. Parliamentary spokesman of the Communist Party of Greece, Karathanasopoulos, has also called for the floor. Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u83	Mr President, I would like the floor for two minutes to make a brief comment on the position of Mr Tsakalotou, the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u84	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u85	Thank you. Minister, you wanted to deny the papers. But what you cannot deny is reality. And reality says very specific things. It says that as a government you have not abolished any anti-corruption laws of the governments of New Democracy and PASOK. You pressed in this anti-Ambient arsenal and moved on a step further. For example, the release of team redundancies. Another example is the abolition of Sunday holiday. And you are preparing, in the third assessment, to 'whack' and trade union rights - the remaining ones - and to put more obstacles to proclaiming a strike. Whatever you do, Minister, you cannot change the DNA of the capitalist system, which runs on man's exploitation and continuously reproduces, expanding social inequalities. The wealth produced is concentrated on increasingly fewer hands and the relative and absolute poverty is growing in this place - and not only in Greece, but also everywhere, Minister - because the overthrow in labour relations, the liberalisation of the labour market there tends to further reduce the price of labour force, in order to shield competitiveness and the profitability of capital. I would like to say one thing, Minister: many people have tried to humanise capitalism over the centuries. Not only did they not succeed, but they were also the alibi to speed up the anti-grassroots and anti-grassroots measures. And basically, if you believe that in conditions of capitalism democracy can pass the factory gates, that will only happen when the sun comes out of the West, Minister. Then just then! You grow in the world delusional, to implement a hard class policy that serves the needs of monopolistic groups and capital.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u86	Thank you, Mr. Karathanasopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u87	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u88	The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative Mr. Dendias has the floor. Mr. Dendia, you have the floor for two minutes, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u89	Mr President, thank you, I will speak less than two minutes. First of all, I would like to express my warmest wishes for recovery and, in particular, for the New Democracy, for the President of Parliament. We hope that they will be with us quickly! Minister, you have come - I am sure you will - to inform the National Representation - that is good - as far as various rumours are concerned about the issue of negotiations are concerned. I would like to ask you something absolutely specific. I'm holding yesterday's announcement from the Athenian News Agency. Specifically, it states: "Greek sources deny that yesterday's Euroworking Group was discussed on the issue of workers..." - neither the law of the Ministry of the Interior nor the law on unpaid work - "... noting, however, that this matter is the subject of consultations". You're the country's chief negotiator. The National Representation has been repeatedly ridiculed with the responsibility of the government's majority and the government, bringing in provisions that we are voting on - we are not voting on - and which are withdrawn the other day and which come in the context of the need for negotiation. Can you assure the National Representation that nothing of this will happen to the legislation brought by Mrs Ahtsoglou? The answer is yes or no. There's no reason...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u90	The answer is the one I gave in my speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u91	You leave it open, that is.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u92	I heard your speech. In the introduction of your speech...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u93	Mr. Chakatte, there's nothing you're saying, because...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u94	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u95	Excuse me, Mr. Chakalote...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u96	Mr President, I would like to speak for five seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u97	Wait a minute. Let me explain. I'll give you the floor. I don't deprive you. Questions were asked or a question. Let us listen to anyone else who wants to intervene, because they have said that they also want the parliamentary representatives of the other groups to intervene, so that you can have an overall picture and answer it. We'll hang up with you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u98	Give me five seconds so I don't forget.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u99	All right, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u100	If Mr. Dendias goes down my speech, he will understand that I have answered. Take it down and you'll see!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u101	But yes or no would be shorter.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u102	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u103	Mr Amyras has the floor from the river Parliamentary Group. Mr. Amyras, do you want the floor for two minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u104	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u105	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u106	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Mr Tsakalote, you said a moment ago that this draft law actually includes how you imagine employment rights, the balance of the labour market after leaving the memoranda and the crisis. I'm afraid we'll only stay in imagination. I will be very specific and I invite you, if you wish, to give me a specific answer. A month ago, Mr. 4487 was passed here in Parliament. Article 56, therefore, said - Mrs Ahtsioglu, of course, will remember it more than anyone - the following: she said that it would be regarded as a unilaterally harmful change in working conditions as a significant delay in the payment of the employee's wages, regardless of the reason for the delay. I repeat that we have voted on a unilateral, harmful change in working conditions and a considerable delay in paying recruits. And I ask you: what is the worthwhile delay? Is it two, three, four months? I'd like you to tell me specifically. Because leaving a general provision like this, but without giving it substance, flesh and bones - say in a month and we will applaud you first - it means that all the rest of it goes back to the field of imagination, as you described us before. And I'm ending up. When you were talking about neoliberalism and squatting it, I was looking at Mr. Skourlet. I wanted to see his reactions. I would remind you that two months ago Mr Skourletis, the Minister sitting next to you, said: 'We are conducting neoliberal policies and we do not like that'. If you don't like it, dear Mr. Surletis and Mr. Chakalote, then there's another way, another way. There is, to say, the way of abandoning the obligation to put your hand on neoliberal fire. As, of course, Mr Chakalotos did not give up when the tax relief fell to 5,400 euros, I imagine you will do the same. But that's not my point. The point is to give us a time limit for the worthwhile delay I described. Is it a month, Mr. Chakalote, a year or a decade? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u107	Good. Thank you, Mr. Amyras. There is no other parliamentary representative who has declared his wish to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u108	Mr President, I would like the floor!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u109	Mr. Champagne, do you want to talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u110	I'm not going to answer that?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u111	No, I'm sorry. I have no intention of depriving you of your word. If you ask for the floor, you have him, just by encouraging you to be brief. Two minutes at most.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u112	I'm always short. You know that. Mr. Amyuras, I can't answer you because it's a legal matter. Perhaps Mrs Ahtsoglou will answer her speech. To be honest, I do not know what it is and how the courts will interpret it in favour of workers or not. What has happened with the last two bills - to answer you more seriously what we are doing - and with the education that I have spoken to: so I said that all the problems that we want to solve within the framework are not solved, but are the first steps in the field of education to understand how slowly we can take fewer lessons and in more depth so that there is no meditation, how can the school have an independence apart from the last one, how can we put some rules in the research. Mrs Ahchioglu does the same. I do not think she will claim that this framework is the perfect framework that strengthens the position of workers, for the terrible imbalance between the working class and the capital within the labour market. But it puts on some spots that show how we want this economic model to go. The question to you is reversed. You, for the great imbalance that exists - both for the PASOK and for the New Democracy - which is shown by all the tables I have put forward, to increase inequality, to reduce the share, what exactly do you say? Do there not need to be institutional interventions, to increase the power of workers as a first step? We will not reach socialism, Mr. Karathanasopoulos. But will we strengthen workers in order to be able to claim something and have greater confidence? That's the question. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] It is my last proposal, Mr President. If you waited for socialist law once and for all, it's not. But is it a law that starts to give a dignity to help self-confidence for workers to be able to claim? That's the question. In all the bills, that is the question. And that's why we need to answer...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u113	Withdrawal of the strike?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u114	Wait, sir. Another bill we're talking about now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u115	Another bill?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u116	You're welcome. The course of this debate has been completed. Before we begin with the list of speakers, Mr Skourletis has asked for the floor for two minutes to support two amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u117	Mr President, Mr Kourakis said that after the representative of the Golden Dawn we will have a debate on a procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u118	What did I tell you now? I'm telling you, before we start with the list of speakers, we'll give the floor to Mr. Skourletis...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u119	No, no, no, no, no, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u120	What exactly do you want, Mr. Loverdo? I wasn't in the Chamber when Mr. Kourakis was chairing. Explain exactly what you mean, what you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u121	The Bureau has unity, Mr President. I'm sorry, I'm not making suggestions, but the Bureau has unity. We were expecting...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u122	Does anyone question the unity of the Bureau?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u123	You say to me: 'What did you say about Mr. Kourakis...'? We said with Mr Kourakis that as soon as the representative of the Golden Dawn was done, we would know about the procedure. Is it bad?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u124	No, no harm. I pre-empted Mr. Skourletis, who waited to speak after the interventions of the parliamentarians and the Minister, Mr. Tsakalotou...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u125	Let's hear Mr. Skourlet.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u126	I shall therefore give the floor to Mr Skourletis, and then we shall have the debate you want. Mr. Skourletis, you have the floor. Two, three minutes enough?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u127	Three and a half, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u128	All right!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u129	I think it'll be three minutes. Thank you, Mr President. Of course, I'm going to get a little misunderstood and make a reference to Mr. Amyras without getting out of time. I would like to say that I am pleased, first of all, because for once I find that it is following my statements. I am not as happy about what he understands and gives exactly what I'm saying. I would simply like to clarify the following: not adopting the programme under way is not a personal view. It is a political position which has been heard by the Prime Minister himself, many of the government officials and by the group of Members. You have to understand that. I'm telling you. I hope I enlightened you. The philosophy of the program, I mean. The second point I want to make is this, although I think Mr Tsakalotos has put it very well. Regardless of what Mr Karathanasopoulos said - and it is a very interesting question, he has dealt with too many - whether capitalism is being humanised, this question when we go to answer it should not be guided by whether within the passage of capitalism, in its various phases, which were less or more aggressive, the labour movement has been able to capture specific conquests in favour of the world of work. If he has done so, you realize that there are other phases, counterattack and loss of such conquests. If you recognize this reality, then you will see that in the name of the previous question we should not suppress the efforts of the day-to-day struggle to win certain things in the world of work. This, of course, refers to a very strategic difference that exists between your Left and our Left. We've said it several times. It's not bad we're talking about it again, though. As for the amendment on which I have taken the floor, it is the amendment with a general number of 1248 and a special 97 on the subject of the former camp "Pavlos Melas", an emblematic site in Thessaloniki, for which our Government has committed itself in consultation with the municipality. After all, it was a long-term demand for the municipality and its residents to spend ninety years in the use of the municipality. This place had started as an Ottoman camp, it was a camp of allied forces, it was also a place of execution of left-wing patriots when fighting. I say this on the occasion of the previous position against the likes of Mr. Michaloliakus, against the Nazis. So there's a special load in this space. This area is assigned for ninety-nine years to the municipality and will be used to create an area of over-local, green and recreational culture. And in exchange for this use for ninety years, the municipality will grant a number of homes, which are currently empty, to the National Defence Fund. It is budgetaryly neutral, Mr Chakaloto, so I think that this amendment should be adopted. The second amendment, to which I should like to mention, is Amendment No 1242 and special 94, and concerns the possibility of paying employees' wages and social security contributions to the programme, the 'Harmonisation of family and professional life' action and beyond the end of 2017 - as provided for by an earlier amendment - that is to say, for the 2017-2018 cycle, by the municipalities, on the basis of their own incomes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u130	Thank you, Mr. Skourlet.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u131	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u132	Mr. Karathanasopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u133	Mr Skourletis, he wants a great deal of courage - let me say this - on the part of the government to take lessons in the JRC about the importance of class struggle, when all the great struggles that have been taking place in our country over the last ten decades have been sealed by the JRC. We say this to some people who are slandering the class struggle and from the position of the government, a bourgeois political system, taking measures that prevent class struggle, putting obstacles to the development of workers' struggles and taking lessons in this direction towards the JRC. So what is needed today - and we are saying it clearly - is that the people should go through the counterattack, crush the memorial and antimonetary laws, in order to restore the losses, to shape the conditions for a more general rupture and reversal - you, as a government, do not only put obstacles to restoring the losses, but you get more for him - and, at the same time, to be able to organise his struggle.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u134	Thank you, Mr. Karathanasopoulos. Ladies and gentlemen, before we proceed to the list of speakers and on the basis of the debate we had previously, I would like to say to you: I think it is in the knowledge of the groups that seventy-six speakers have been registered. Today's timetable, of course, has been set at around 00.30 p.m. I mean, if you agree, we suggest that today's sitting be closed at 00.30 p.m. Of course, in this year we must also include the positions of the parliamentary representatives and the Minister. We are talking about eight parliamentary representatives and about thirty-five speakers. The rest of the speakers up to seventy-six, i.e. about forty, should be left for tomorrow. I would like to inform the House that tomorrow there will be no parliamentary scrutiny. So we can begin the procedure in plenary, in other words at 09.30 p.m. I am making a proposal and we are discussing it. I think 09.30' is a good time. However, we must bear in mind that at noon there will be some traffic problems in Parliament due to the coming of the President of the French Republic, with regard to possible Members who wish to move from and from Parliament. So the aim is to conclude tomorrow's debate on the bill, if we can, by one hour.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u135	We agree with the time for tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u136	You agree, then, about the 13:00 p.m. All right, we're setting a target, and we'll see how we get it from there. In advance, of course, the number of speakers left for tomorrow, as well as the seven minute, as we said, does not take the time. The Bureau therefore strongly urges both Members and Parliamentary Representatives to keep their time. It may also be necessary to propose that the Bureau should reduce the speaking time. But that remains to be seen in the course of the debate. As the Bureau, therefore, we hear objections and opinions.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u137	Mr President, could I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u138	Here, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u139	Mr President, we have no objections. For God's sake! But we have to come forward with an opinion on the procedure. Let's finish tomorrow at an hour and go to 12 and a half at dawn today. But help us a little as a Bureau in terms of colleagues who were counting on to speak on the articles and have not been registered, as they calculated to register tomorrow. Secondly, give us, the Parliamentary Representatives, the opportunity, with the full time of our speech, to speak tomorrow. In other words, you are going to a logic of the application of the Rules of Procedure rather than strict application, and we will help to finish tomorrow by 13.00 p.m.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u140	Well, as far as the first issue is concerned, the debate on this bill is a uniform one. I think this has been known since the beginning of the sitting since this morning. Secondly, when the Members of Parliament will speak, that is their right. I cannot prejudge that the parliamentarians will speak tomorrow. Already - and it was my mistake that I did not mention it in my previous position - on the basis of the requests made by some parliamentary representatives, I propose that - if you agree - a Parliamentary should be involved by five speakers. Let's start like this and then we'll see about it. There is already a parliamentary representative who will speak after the fifth speaker. From that point on, those Members of Parliament who wish to speak can speak up to 12 and a half. If some people want to talk tomorrow. Mr Loverdo, this House cannot commit to when each parliament will speak. Let's decide that himself. So we don't have time, do you have anything else to suggest?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u141	You're right, Mr. President. Single procedure does not reduce our time if we talk tomorrow. We'll talk, just like everyone appreciates. However, retreat to the question of adding colleagues. We have a Member who wants to be seated tomorrow and has not declared himself. Make an intervention in this, and I think we've found it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u142	Adding to the already existing list?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u143	It's a uniform procedure and it won't break.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u144	Yes, Mr. Loverdo, all right. But added to the already existing list? You have heard - I think we can now say - that there are seventy-six speakers, and on the basis of seven minutes - I say again - and with strict respect for the speaking time, interventions, etc., we may not have enough time until tomorrow at 13.00 p.m.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u145	Mr President, a Member who is not here listening to the procedure, that it is a uniform procedure, sends you a message to add. Why now do you make it hard?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u146	Anyway, let's not see it now, and we're running. Let's get to the list of speakers. We'll see it along the way. It's not a question of contesting that. Let's move on to the first speaker, Mrs. Genera, from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u147	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are discussing today introduces a set of institutional interventions in the field of labour, social security and social protection. It is a continuation of all the latest legislative initiatives and regulations of our Government in terms of defending the rights of weak fellow citizens and workers. A characteristic recent example is the achievement of the Ministry for the validity of collective labour contracts that former governments fully and uncompromisingly abolished, subjecting to the bizarre liberal cheques, which will begin from September 2018. Its provisions are aimed at strengthening and extending the rights of workers, improving essential aspects of everyday life, satisfying the legitimate demands of the social majority. In particular, therefore, they aim to substantially improve the tools for monitoring and respecting labour legislation, to combat unpaid, undeclared and implied work, to resolve issues of vague social security, to resolve chronic claims for insured persons, to create a modern framework of provisions facilitating the full and equal participation of disabled people in the country's social, economic and political life. In its first part, therefore, social security issues are dealt with, giving solutions to chronic problems of the insured. Provision is made for arrangements for the full implementation of the provisions of the Insurance Reform and for specific categories of insurance to be resolved. In particular and attributes: Article 22 provides for the abolition of the obligation of engineers and lawyers to pay insurance contributions only on account of their registration in the EIFs and lawyers, respectively, which has been a constant request for a number of years especially young professionals. Obligation to pay insurance contributions has now been granted from the start of their business in the DUs and for as long as it lasts. The question of calculating the pensions of persons who had no or limited periods of insurance in the period from 1 January 2002 onwards is also resolved. Publicers are expected to be the same for the private sector as for the private sector. In other words, the rate of reduction in early retirement cannot exceed 30%. Without this intervention, pensions, in cases of early retirement for civil servants, would be treated at higher rates of reduction, without any restriction. Equally important are the forecasts for people with health and disability problems. Provision is made for a specific provision for the mentally ill, so that if they are entitled to an invalidity pension or other allowances, they may not be reduced or suspended in the event of employment. An invalidity pension is also extended in cases where the CEPR opinion has expired, on the basis of which it has been awarded and pending a new opinion. It is expressly stated that the right to a pension is inalienable. In the second and third part there are important arrangements for the protection of workers' rights. First of all, there is provision for strengthening the control mechanisms and, above all, the Labour Inspectorate with human resources and tools, but also for upgrading their operational capacity. The available financial instruments and the financing through a NSRF of EUR 7 million 600 thousand for pilot checks on high-infringity branches are geared towards the purpose of protecting and upgrading the services provided to them. It supports the existing institutional framework in order to shield as much as possible the respect of labour law and to facilitate the work of the audit mechanisms. In this context, therefore, the obligation to make electronic announcements is being introduced, and so far there has not even been an obligation to keep books and to declare workers. It is explicitly laid down that everyone who violates labour law is excluded from public money and from Community funds, all who have multiple violations of labour law. This, in addition to repressives, will affect multiple and preventively as an anti-institutor. It will therefore create a positive dynamic in the labour market. It is very important that the intervention concerning the voluntary withdrawal of the worker is also made very important. It is now required to sign it. To date, there has been an abusive practice that the employer says that the worker has voluntarily left without doing so. So it gives him a great deal of room for the legislation to say, leaving room for violations. We therefore correct this possibility of infringing. In the area of unpaid work, we have already legislated that non-paid wages are, in any case, a unilateral, harmful change, so the worker can immediately consider redundancy and claim compensation. We now provide the opportunity for a rapid trial of cases within sixty days. The cost of the proceedings shall be reduced, workers shall be exempt from payment of a judicial notice or shall be liable to a reduced judicial notice, depending on the requirement to issue a payment order for the payment of accrued remuneration. Protection against maternity dismissal and workers in the adoption process or involved in the procedure of parental leave is extended. Special leave is also introduced for parents with severe mental deprivation, down syndrome and autism. Thus, it is clear from all the above regulations that the pursuit of SYRIZA is to plunge the phenomena of infraction in the workplaces and downgrade in the workplaces of the workers. Ladies and gentlemen, we are opposed to establishments which violate the basic rights of workers. Unlike retardants and distorting economic and labour factors. We are against anything that undermines the state's social mission and its institution. We are against anyone who sought the desertification model and sought to make our country a special economic zone with low wages and lack of rights. We are opposed to the work of the middle ages and we prove it in every possible way and at every opportunity. This bill is another proof in this direction. That is why, of course, I am in favour of both the principle and the articles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u148	Mr Georgios Vlachos has the floor from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u149	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the government has been advertising the beneficial provisions it will bring with this bill over the last time. Making use of the saying that in the country where we live what you are, he tried to update the arrangements he would bring. He was talking about undeclared work, about infraction on the labour market, about pathogens, about a new social charter. But since the moment always comes when reality overthrows statements and communications artifacts, as life has shown in the past, that there were no money, that the memorandum was not torn apart, that HNPH was not abolished, so now by tabling the draft under discussion, it turns out that there was a lot of talk that didn't deserve to take either time or - if you want - and the importance that it took. But I said it would happen, because I'm sure this bill will be top of the Prime Minister's weekend. That is why the government has brought it to the House for a vote in order to make use of it in the performance to be given to the Thessaloniki International Exhibition. And I'm telling you, because I'm sure no mention will be made of what the Prime Minister and SYRIZA promised in the past. No mention will be made of the inconsistency between the speeches and the work of the Prime Minister. So, in order not to remember what was said by the Prime Minister in previous years, new promises must be invented and, indeed, some of them are also voted on by the House, so that these communal tricks can try to show another picture. With communal tricks, however, no one recovers his authority. Mr. Tsipras has promised everyone everything, making society afraid every time new promises are heard. I would like to say that it was not such a fuss and for some positive arrangements that - personally, let me say really - I have serious doubts about their implementation and their effectiveness. However, the only thing for sure, ladies and gentlemen, is that this bill could mention - and unfortunately it does not - the unfair pension cuts, pensions that will be cut in 2019, the reduction of up to two wages due to the successive reductions in the tax rate and the dramatic increase in direct and indirect taxes, the three hundred thousand pensioners who are in vain waiting to get their pensions, the liberalisation of collective redundancies signed a long time ago, the new generation of EUR 360 created under the sole responsibility of the current government, the generation of pensioners of EUR 185, the question of how many thousands of jobs and wages have been lost by not taking advantage of the Junker package, the question of why nothing has been done here for two and a half years for undeclared work. And at this point I would remind you, like our rapporteur and former Minister, Mr Brutsi, very thoroughly, during the debate in committee, that it was a case that the New Democracy found it more than 40% and limited it to 13%. Today, indeed, the figures remain the same, which means that for two and a half years there has been no attempt. However, I have to say that we are talking, even in a close manner, about new reductions in pensions and increases in insurance contributions. More specifically, at a decrease of 21% that can reach up to 40% of supplementary pensions up to 31-12-2014, at the freezing of about thirty thousand supplementary pensions from 1-1-2015, as this famous mathematical formula for the calculation of pensions is not yet ready. You know, little value gives anyone who's waiting to get a pension for the math guy. What he expects is to tell him clearly when he will get the money that is very little anyway and which even those few can't find and plan in his everyday life. The increase from 4% to 4.5% for the contribution to the employees' share fund is also mentioned. Ladies and gentlemen, in any case it is a bill that is in the wrong direction. It is a string of provisions, as I would say, which in no way constitute an integrated proposal that will resolve the important issues in the labour market. That is why our rapporteur rightly described this bill as an empty shirt. It goes beyond reality, without giving a solution to the problems created by the long-standing crisis and above all without giving a solution to what the inventivity and experiments of your government's ministers have created, as it is certain that your own delusionals have created difficulties in citizens' lives, burdening them with the huge cost of your own experiments. Unfortunately, the evil you have done in this country all this time of your governance cannot change from one moment to the next and of course with only one bill. The purchasing power and the standard of living of the Greeks have also, in our opinion, been charged with two irresponsible memos, which cost more than EUR 14 billion, to be charged to the backs of the Greek people. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall close, ladies and gentlemen, with a little mention of the visits by the Prime Minister, Mr Tsipras, to businesses which, incidentally, are active in my own region, to my own constituency. And I wanted to ask, what problem has the government and the Prime Minister solved at PAPASTRATO or at APIVITA to participate in the joy of their success? He shared smiles on the visit. He ever asked what problem they had, what investment effort he unlocked, what helped them, where was he a supporter? Who gave him the right to visit and celebrate? He waited for the business risk to be completed, and then he safely made the visits, without asking how these people arrived there. I say this because both companies, which have indeed taken positive steps in recent years, and not the two years, of course, in the midst of a crisis, must be pointed out, but by people who have been following these companies over the past few years, not now that the communal party that the Prime Minister wanted was set up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u150	Mr. Vlao, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u151	I shall conclude, Mr President. He said no more about the profit. And only the reference to the word profit on the SYRIZA side is positive. It will take a long time, however, ladies and gentlemen, to bridge the gap between profit and value of work, which you have told us in your youth, and profit as an incentive, as a lever to develop entrepreneurship. Greek society cannot wait for other lost years. He wants to hear something about today. He needs it to feel like he's coming out of the dead end. And that's and it's gonna be our big difference. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u152	Mr Koutsoukos has the floor from the Democratic Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u153	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] My first comment, ladies and gentlemen, is to do with Mr Tsakalotou's effort, from this point of view, to convince us that his ears have not been raised. Obviously! We saw it. His ears weren't raised, but his nose grew. And his nose grew up in trying to convince us that he does not legislate in dictatorial terms, as there are infinite examples that the government has dictated under a defeated negotiation, and he himself has been exposed personally with his statements, but also with the government as a whole. With regard to the rest he said in his agonizing attempt to tell us that he is a more genuine social democrat than we are, I will respond to the three comments I have to make on the bill. The first comment, therefore, ladies and gentlemen - and this bill is being offered, because it is a bill on employment and insurance rights - is that this government is divorced with society and social dialogue. Its main component, SYRIZA - because the other right-wing component had nothing to do with social movements or trade unions, it had other privileged relations - its main ideological component was the one that talked to us historically about the role of society, of reasoning, of organizations and demanded that trade unions play a part in the form of politics. The leadership of the Ministry of Labour and Social Security is solely responsible for the fact that this bill did not go to the OKE, as required by the law, to have the opinion of the social partners on these regulations for which the government says they are very critical. This, however, is not a weakness of Mrs Ahtsoglou, but it is a comprehensive policy of a perception of authority, because this is how SYRIZA has mutated into a power of authority that exploits and uses them depending on whether or not it controls them. If we control the institutions, we take initiatives if we do not control them, whether we undermine them or marginalize them. The Committee's example is not an accident. Today, at our meeting with the social partners ahead of Mrs Gennimata's visit to the IGC, we were told by the representatives of the social partners that they met with Mr Tsipras and told him of their requests. Someone, of course, told us that we didn't talk about it because he didn't answer us last year, so it didn't make any sense. The President of the GSE, ladies and gentlemen, told us that he did not have the pleasure of submitting the proposals of the trade union movement to Mr Tsipras, because Mr Tsipras is not speaking with the GSE. He also told us that when Mr. Tsipras in Thessaloniki, who had gone up the day before yesterday to discuss with the institutions, called all the actors in the city, he ignored the Labour Center. And this is where they happen to be executives of the Labour Union MPs from Thessaloniki and the majority rapporteur has also made Chairman of the Labour Center in Heraklion. How does he understand all this? So the first thing I want to say in relation to this bill, but it is about a more general government policy, is that it has mutated into a power that ignores society and its institutions. And what will happen in the next few days, and for which you reacted when Mrs Christophilopoulou told you, is that you will vote on both hands undermining the right of strike and it has exactly to do with the fact that he is coming to disprove what Mr Tsakalots said to us, that he has not drawn his ears, but that his nose has grown up. You will legislate upon commitment by ignoring society, i.e. workers and employers, the social partners. And there is a third part in this process, and I would like to say it before I go to my second comment. Minister, there is the road map of ILO, there is a meeting of the social partners in Geneva at the International Labour Office and an entire debate on labour rights, good practice in collective bargaining and all that. Is there any continuity from your Government, or have you written it in the oldest of your shoes, under the logic with which you legislate? I now come to my second point, which concerns the trunk of this bill. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, any communication needs and wish to serve with the provisions of this bill, the finding is one, not the abortion of Katrugalos. It is not made because the Karugalou bill did not merely cut down, such as previous legislative interventions. The Katrugalou bill changed the structure and functioning of the return to the social security system and was essentially subordinated to the logic of the minor effort, strengthening tax evasion and undermining the characteristics of the single and universal insurance as a Trojan horse. In any case, because it has extreme, extreme injustices, I would like to ask you to see the amendment we have tabled for the widows, for the cases of those who will receive a pension of less than 200 euros, because they have been trapped until you have voted on the law on insurance, on the cutbacks of farmers who will receive a pension and have a small lot of lots, a vineyard, a liliest time and will continue to cultivate it, and on the fines you have put back. I come to the third point, to the third comment, ladies and gentlemen. With all these concretes you can't create a record. Mr. Tsakalotos tried to tell us about the legalisation of the end of the crisis. I noticed his terminology. For the Memorandums, nothing has been said, because it has committed itself to its vote and its signature in a two-month memorandum. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll be back in a minute, Mr. President. And it is not just the macro-economic framework that does not guarantee exit from the crisis. It's not the decisions that are binding the public property for just a hundred years. It is also the fact that the government's expectations of growth are not confirmed. The 0.8% pale is a long way from cigarettes, and the 'PAPASTRATO' does not go far enough than 2.7% of the budget. And what has been tabled here before, but it is well known, that is, the change in labour relations in the hands of the sovereignty of the elastic forms of employment, with the reduction in wages below EUR 300, shows that the working jungle, which you have denounced, lives and reigns. So this harsh reality cannot be changed, because you have been subjected to a policy that does not satisfy the needs of Greek society and which will obviously be changed by the people when the time comes. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u154	Mr. Ilias Panagiotaros has the floor since the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u155	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to denounce the male murder attack by well-known, interstate circles at the expense of the regional advisor of the "Greek Dawn" in Attica Pericles Mulianaki. I would like to continue by commenting on what the honourable Minister, Mr Chakalotos, said and his narrative. Of course, the whole story is a fairy tale and nothing else. It is a more tranquil demonstration - and I am tabling it in the Minutes - of what he said when he was jumping and beating out of the ministries as opposition to HISPIA, which is now very happy, for another year he has institutionalised, bringing more and more Greeks into difficulty, because instead of abolishing HISPIA, more and more are paying greater sums. [[At this point, the Member, Ilias Panagiotaros, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I read the explanatory statement of this bill. It starts in the general part with this very good: "This draft law introduces a set of institutional interventions in the field of labour and social protection aimed at strengthening and extending the rights of workers, improving essential aspects of their everyday life, but also facilitating the participation of disabled people in the social, economic and political life of the country". And it continues in similar styles below. One is thinking of how such things can be said in the explanatory statement when they have already voted for a memorial to date and apply faithfully all the previous memoranda and practices. We're talking about what's most anti-linguistic, what's been the most anti-developmental thing. And you come and tell us that you bring a bill, which will improve the work and insurance of Greek citizens. Really, why are you happy, gentlemen of SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks? For the 345 euro basic salary, when you said in your programmes that the basic salary would be increased to EUR 751? Are you happy to elasticate the work? Here I would like to reply to the SYRIZA rapporteur, who, in addition to the rest he has said, also mentioned the decline in unemployment, who is gradually falling, while we all know that we have the highest unemployment throughout Europe, with a great difference from the second, that this reduction - which is fictitious, because in the unemployment indicators there are not too many long-term unemployed - has to do with the fact that more and more Greek citizens are made redundant and replaced by others on flexible working conditions: One, two hours a day - and while they are paid for two hours, work much more - or two, three days a week. You are pleased, because all this shows that you are progressing very rapidly in the Bulgarianisation of our country. Who will forget - although most will have forgotten - that, before the first memorandum was passed, they were speaking at the time and said that Greece would reach Bulgaria levels and no one believed it. Now, not only is it a reality, but, as the Chief of Golden Dawn said, Bulgaria's indicators are better than Greece's indicators. Unemployment is 6%, employment is constantly growing and more and more businesses from Greece go there, because Bulgaria's tax, insurance and investment environment is much better than our country's tragic environment. So we have only to say that 'yes, we also want Bulgarianisation, because all will automatically go better for Greece'. Why are you happy? Why is one in five Greeks from fifty-five to sixty-four years old free of pay or pension, why is it very simply not working and not at such an age that it is just one or a half from retirement? Now, with the new measures, it will be long before it reaches pensionable age, but without the required meanings, because it has not just worked for a long time. Why are you happy? For unreasonable contributions, no matter what the honourable Minister says - who is not in Ethiopia - his name is Bravo and congratulations on the road? Because a low contribution is paid by those who have no turnover, no job at all. See the contributions they pay - and you all know - all those who have some movement in their business, who are trying to keep her alive. They all consider - and so it is - that for the huge sums they give, and which are disproportionate to reality, they will never receive a similar pension if they take it. And these amounts go to the lenders directly. Not to say about what was happening in the past, where the insurance funds had a money, which the various partners, the various governments, socialist or capitalist, "earned" in an alpha or beta way. We also see that illegal immigrants, by means of the legislation you bring, can, by invading our homeland, find a job after a while. You say we give them land too, we teach them how to cultivate it, while a new couple of Greeks who want to become a young farmer will face thousands of obstacles in front of him. You are pleased about the unemployment benefits - why did we hear that - which shows the downside of our country? We should, if we want to help our country move forward, be job benefits, so that they can go somewhere to have a job and not take unemployment benefits for some time until this time limit expires. Here we have the illegal immigrants, who, if you go to the OAED, are usually given priority over the Greeks. You are boasting about the impossible 'price' - within many introductorys - for those employers who do not pay the wages, with the harmful change. Sounds right. In fact, however, you're probably not going to do anything at all. Of course, you could set the good example, gentlemen of SYRIZA, by starting paying workers at your radio station, in your newspaper and elsewhere, who are constantly protesting. Also, the "partners" of the JRC had previously left unpaid to the "Typectocotic" and "RIZOSOPASTI", for which various protesters were protesting. And they were the first to implement the most memorial, anti-grassy, anti-grassy measures in the first Memorandum. Not to talk about the state, which asks everyone else to be okay, but the same is not all right. He owes billions of euros to individuals who dared to trade with him. If you want to be so well, why are you a card squeeze with some, but not in the case of MARINOPOULOS, who has bankrupt - and this will possibly appear in the future - and with its beneficial laws and regulations you have done all its favors and is unpunished and is currently enjoying the golden waters of the Aegean Sea with its horns at the expense of the corps and thousands of suppliers, who have "entry into" hundreds of millions of euros? Here I would like to comment on the Prime Minister's statement, which, as a hard worker until he becomes Prime Minister, said that profitability is not an end in itself. And with what you said you are canceling and canceling everything you say about growth. You are rather unimportant and dogmatic or perhaps more dogmatic and less unimportant. For profit - always under rules, because there are rules in this society - it brings contributions, it brings new jobs, it is the driving lever of growth and the economy. It fills the insurance funds authorised by the previous governments, as we said, by the toxic bonds, by gambling them on the stock market, by eating them with anything else. So it also brings prosperity. I should also like to comment quickly on how it is being developed. We have said so, it is certainly not with everything you have voted on in recent years. The development, along with a national political effort in demographics, which is the biggest problem for our country, will create new workers, new contributions and all this will go a chain. But with the measures you take, not only do young people marry, not only do they have children, but they also leave abroad. They do not come again and, of course, you will never see a contribution from them again to centuries of ages. Everything you have said so far has been, it is and will be air words and you are not going to do anything at all either with this bill, which will also be the stepping-up of the Prime Minister, if necessary, at the Thessaloniki Exhibition, to say "false" once again. Your train has been derailed like the subway of Thessaloniki. Once again you will go up and while the inhabitants of Thessaloniki have been afflicted for years by the construction of the metro that never ends, they will finally see the first wagon! The mockery of all her majesty! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u156	Mr. Steriou from the Communist Party of Greece has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u157	Thank you, Mr President. Lords of government, Minister, in the festive way that you present your bill, only anger, ironic remarks and anger, really, you cause workers. Because the hard reality there is in the workplace is that all the workers live and work in a legislated work jungle that allows the employer, in a legitimate way, to break and equalise working, wage, pension rights of workers, who give air to its sails to impose on the workplace terrorism and cemetery silences on all anti-corruption habits, always with the threat of dismissal. Madam Minister, rotating work, availability, individual contracts under and under the lousy EUR 586 and EUR 511 - today in Greece, over five hundred thousand workers with an average wage of less than EUR 390 - are redeploying working hours as the employer is doing, abolishing Sunday holidays, slavery for contractors, black work, free collective redundancies, are some of the achievements you have made - and they are - you and the previous governments and are supported by all the parties, except the JRC, who together have voted on the third memorandum and the assessments that have been followed. Isn't that right, Minister? I don't think you're arguing. What about all this? Because that is what the recovery of the profits of capital and the capitalist economy that you have sacred and loyal and gospel requires. You all worship her. So, in this reality, which lives for millions of workers, unemployed and pensioners, you say, in fact, without a sign of shame and with an excessive hypocrisy in the bill we are debating today and in the explanatory statement, that you are doing interventions that "targets to strengthen and extend the rights of workers, improve essential aspects of their everyday lives". In the articles, however, for pensioners, you say that "it is to ensure decent living and social protection in terms of equality, etc." But, well, we're telling you seriously and we're looking into your eyes: Aren't you embarrassed to make fun of our workers, our people, tell them that this torture that's been going through over eight years now and you're making it eternal, that it doesn't end, is in their imagination? What can we say? Lies and hypocrisy have limits. But you, gentlemen of the government, have exceeded not only the limits, not only the saying, "say, tell, lie, at the end something will remain", but you are now in the dimension of lying and hypocrisy in science. What are you trying to do, however, - why don't you do it in the air - with this bill? You want to build a so-called philosophical turn just before the Prime Minister's inauguration and while he has still not dried up the ink of the anti-government and co-insurance excretion that you voted on at the end of the second assessment, of course always in the interests of capital. We are asking, on the substance of the matter, Minister. Isn't your bill leaving intact all the anti-laboratory framework on which the working middle ages that the employer legally imposes? Is there an article that abolishes even one of the things I mentioned before and applies as a place of work? No, of course you do. It's not something we call it. Would you like, Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the government, to legislate - as you say in this bill that we are voting on - on the real rights of workers? Bring to the House - we are causing you again - the proposal for a law that has submitted more than five hundred trade unions in November 2016 - we have tabled it to you - and to see from there and beyond who is with whom. Let's see if you really care about workers' rights. But you smuggled her, why? - precisely because it does not serve the interests of capital and its profitability that you serve. You are even bringing this bill and you are lifting up a communal curtain when you are preparing with the third assessment to promote new reversals first of all of your commitment to impose additional obstacles to the strike notice and the trade union organisation of workers. And in this respect you will have, as Mr Brutsis said in the committees, and the support of the New Democracy. We'll see what the other forces will do. But we are telling you that clearly. Don't you dare do that. The working class will be in front of you. In this respect, therefore, the provisions of this bill presuppose the necessary application of all the anti-territorial laws adopted by the earlier, PASOK and New Democracy, but you have maintained and extended. They are embroiderys without a substantial impact on the workers, since the employer's arbitrariness is stepping right in the context that allows it to increase legally the wages of workers. The articles relating to insurance have as prerequisite the faithful and inappropriate application of the "bad" law 4387 that plunges the main pensions and makes them an allowance, almost zeros supplementary pensions since workers with more than fifteen years of insurance will get 33,75 euros and 72 euros respectively now with your bill. Such a guarantee of decent living and protection is offered to pensioners! We're just asking workers. You live with this money, any of you? Of course not. The pensioners, however, will live. But you are revealing why, as you and government officials say, interventions with your bill are done so that healthy competition between businesses is not distorted, because you want healthy entrepreneurs. You are, indeed, an example of healthy businessmen in the 'PASTRATO' industry. You've been visiting the Prime Minister with you. What really happens to this company that you presented as an example of compliance with labour law? Don't you know that this healthy businessman fired - and you know it - two months ago an employee with multiple sclerosis? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Don't you know that over the last few years some 130 voluntary departures have been made, which have been purely redundancies? According to our information, in 2010, 1,000 workers worked in the industry. And today, after the sound investment of 300 million, they work 500! These are the healthy businessmen and business! So these healthy entrepreneurs and businesses presuppose the middle-age working age for workers, which you are simply giving them. That's why they chose you to do the dirty work to their benefit that others didn't do. You are making these outfits at the same time with the arguments of healthy entrepreneurship and fair growth, which you will repeat in Thessaloniki, in order to hide that anti-government laws, both yours and the previous ones, are the ones that enshrine the most brutal exploitation - and these laws are not of a temporary but permanent nature - that they are enriched with new regulations and provisions, according to the needs of capital, that bills, such as what we are discussing today, are nothing but the lidder of your wild class policy, the clearing up of the new anti-government measures that will come with the third assessment. Gentlemen of the government, the evangelizing evangelical growth has created dungeon in the workplaces. This is evidenced by the 6,500 reported accidents at work, of which 73 were fatal in 2016, 7 fatal in the last two months in OTA organisations and more than 40 to today. This, then, confirms that the capital you serve kills does not even count on the life of the workers. So this fair growth that supports the profits of capital, which closes the future in life and human development, presents it as a way out of the crisis. There has never been a fair growth and a fair distribution in the territory of the capitalist economy and in times of crisis. Your aim is to make the people accomplice, to make him silence, to have him waited, to tolerate living in poverty and impoverishment waiting for me from the fair growth of some crumbs. As long as the economy, ladies and gentlemen of the government, is designed to serve profit rather than satisfying the needs of our people, it is not going to be happy to see it. Finally, we call on our people, the workers as a whole, to close their ears to the old and new saviors and guide their modern needs to fight to regain everything they have been stolen and to pave the way for the definitive release of their suffering, overthrowing this rotten exploitation, capitalist way of organising the economy that gives rise to poverty, impoverishment, war and refugee. Composite with the JRC, which has the only political proposal to be made to their advantage, taking the keys to the economy and power in their hands. On September 9th, ladies and gentlemen of the government, in Thessaloniki you will not only have balls to bear you, but they will be the workers, the class unions, the PAME there and which is really fighting to make up for the losses of the workers. Finally, accept the amendments tabled by our parliamentary group. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u158	The Parliamentary spokesman from Potami Mr Amyras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u159	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, just two days ago, Minister Ahcioglu, I wish she was in the Chamber right now, presented some information to show a recovery in the labour market and an increase in the incomes of workers. So it gave us as an example the incomes of 2016 and Mrs Ahtsioglou told us that we had a 0.8% increase in 2016 compared to 2015 in dependent labour pay. That's right. But he made a leap of logic, a jump of arithmetic. Because in order to substantiate the claim, this is a given element, he told us that in 2012 and 2013 we had the greatest reduction of incomes. No, I don't. I would say to Mrs Ahtsoglou not to play with numbers, especially with regard to unemployment and the workplace, because behind these figures there are families and unemployed. So what happened? Indeed, in 2016, dependant wages increased by 0.8% compared to 2015. But what happened in 2015, what had happened? I turned to the Annual Report of the Bank of Greece on monetary policy issued last June. So what's there on page 78? That pay in 2015 had decreased by 2.9% compared to 2014. What does that mean? It means that in 2016, for which Mrs Ahtsoglou celebrated, pay remained at a lower level than in 2014. You can't compare orange eggs. Or all together, and the conclusions of ours, or the others, are all poaching. But the unpleasant thing is that the same situation will apply this year. In the same report of the Bank of Greece, the estimate is that for this year's pay will remain at the levels of 2016, which is lower than it was in 2013 and 2014. But there are other presumptions, I would say, of the disorganization of the labour market by the SYRIZA - ANEL. You created the generation of 360 euros. You created it. Didn't you and some ministers build political careers with the generation of 700 euros that beat it down? Where are these ministers now missing? They were affected by the generation of 700 euros, now chariots for the generation of 340 euros and 360 euros, because it is their creation! Let's go see some other evidence. They are the official figures of the Independent Public Income Authority and tells us that the revenues reported in 2016 were significantly reduced compared to 2015, i.e. from evil to worse, and I repeat that the 2016 incomes remain much lower than those of 2014. So what does the independent authority say to us? It says that this year the freelance professionals, that is, for 2016, reported lower incomes by 20% and the employees by 1.5%. Shouldn't we trust the independent authority? Let's not trust her. What does IKA say? Let's go see IKA's detailed periodical statements and the last IKA statistical employment bulletin. What's he telling us? It says that in October 2016 the average monthly salary fell to EUR 936 when at the end of 2014 it was EUR 1,156, that is, we have a shocking drop of 18,6%. It's incomprehensible! Within one year, by hand SYRIZA - ANEL, wages were oppressed. Let's go to unemployment too, so we can put things in one class. Mrs Ahtsoglou is pleased that unemployment has declined to 21.7%. Of course, we must all be satisfied with the fraction of the unemployment unit. But can we see a little what is going on in Europe and make some comparisons between Greece and Spain? First of all, let us say that as far as the euro area countries are concerned, according to Eurostat's official figures, unemployment in these countries is now at 10%, namely 9%, i.e. at 2009 levels, the pre-crisis or the start of the crisis of the time. Most countries have taken full advantage of the positive market climate in the last three years and have experienced impressive performance on the front of unemployment, I would say. In Greece the fall in unemployment was hypotonic. Well, check it out. In the period 2015-2016, the country returned to a recession. It was the baroufakia, it was the "proud negotiations", it was "experimenting and learning the world" and all that on the back of the Greeks. We have come to have jobs of EUR 340. So let's go see, as I told you, a crack test, a check between Spain and Greece. In January 2015, unemployment in Spain was 23.7%. In Greece it was at 25.7% and had a downward trend. I mean, we had two units of difference in unemployment rates. Of the latest official Eurostat data available for July 2017, unemployment in Greece decreased to 21.7%. In Spain, how much do you say he's arrived? 17% and I went today to update the evidence and it's fallen below the psychological limit of 17%, it's 16.9%. What does that mean? It means that the baroufakia - and not just because we are a little unfair to ourselves when we find it only in Varoufakis. What was Varoufakis, any rebels in your government? Together you were making it, you were planning it, you were doing it together. Who? That bucket of the hole, where we were throwing water and falling down, brought this effect. The Spanish economy therefore presents a growth of 3.5%, when in Greece fewer new jobs, arising from anaemic growth or recession, are jobs of 340 euros. I mean, it's simpler to say. When we had a new job before, it was worth 900 euros. Today what do we have? Two new jobs rewarded with 400 euros. This is the practical result of the recession. Let's go see some more. We have anemic growth. Unfortunately, we are all seeing this and we are all in agreement with this conclusion. We have a banking system crisis. Do we remember the capital controls or did we forget them? It's a peculiar mistributory. Oh, yes, we also have Capital Controls! Go and ask those who attempt, those who export, those who investigate and innovate what capital control means for the environment of sustainability or not of their businesses. Also, here we don't have banks. Three recapitalizations! Loans from banks to the real economy, zero. Malcolm yak. Yok loan. That is where we have arrived and many are also discussing new, fourth recapitalisation. Let's go now and listen and comment on something else Mrs Ahtsioglou said in the last few days, that those who have property and do not pay, workers will be able to claim part of their property within 15 days. Welcome really! This also applies to the codified companies as well. Will you tell me what's going on about the anonymous corporations? Oh, man, here we have the supreme populism of this government! I would remind you that in 2015 you passed a law, Law No.4321, which provided for the personal responsibility of the shareholders of public limited companies with more than 10% share of the debts to the insurance funds. What did we say to you then, and you were saying 'You are germans, you are polishers, you are eskimos'? We told you that what you're going to do doesn't apply. I wish it could. It can't be, it's going to be legal too, it's actually. One year after this provision was abolished by the same government that voted for it, making the allegedly friendly towards the workers of the government and then, on 29 June 2016, the then Minister of Economy George Statakis said and I will be misled by you: “There was actually no possibility of its implementation.” Welcome to the world of reality! But populism happened. With such fireworks, I would like to say that the problem of the labour market is not solved, nor the non-payment of workers. Is there a way to deal with and limit itself? Of course, there is, and I mentioned it earlier to Mr Tsakalotos, who said that he did not know the answer. I shall therefore put the matter to you: Article 56 of Law 4487. A month ago, Parliament passed this law. So what did he say? He said that it was regarded as a unilaterally harmful change in working conditions to delay the payment of the employee's paid earnings. I ask you, the attending ministers, what is the time for the worthwhile delay? Is it a month? Is that one year? Is it the one century? What is it? The court said Mr. Chakalotos before he answered me. What court? Aren't you ready to bring an amendment and set the delay time to how long? We'll find it. Why should workers run in the courts, which we know, of course, the courts at what speed do they avenge the cases and clean them up? I was young and I was old! So I say to you this: if you really want this provision to be activated, bring an amendment, Mr Petropoulou, and determine what time is worthwhile delaying the payment by employers to workers. I would also like to hear your opinion, Mr Petropoulou, even personal, if not the government. Ladies and gentlemen, the labour market pays the inefficiency of several ministers and the overall government of SYRIZA - ANEL. Taxes you know how to put. You know how to increase contributions to the stratosphere. You also know how to block big investments. Now, at this time we are discussing, the CAS discusses the newest monuments in the Greek. Yesterday he was discussing the ancients. My view is that half an ancient one has to be protected. That's all he was missing! But do you know where the game is? I don't know if you're watching things from inside and close. To demarcate protection zones, not just points. Is there an ancient grave? Of course, protect him. What do archaeologists and some of SYRIZA's archaeologists say who may be bitter, lag or be pure and today sympathetic? Zones! We'll puncture the Greek with protection belts. I would like to hear your opinion and that is why, but I would like to say one more thing. When you go to buy a plot anywhere - let me tell you on Folegandros on my island - when you go sell the plot or go buy it for the other guy, will the proposed buyer tell you: "I'm building here? Is it in the town plan?’ You'll give him an answer. "Have you? Is it a forest characterised?’ I wonder how he sells and how he buys, of course, a huge private area when he has not cleared up the legal status and the real status, where I build, which I do not build, what I am building. It is, therefore, the "journey of Arta" in a new rename, "the ferry of the Greek". Ladies and gentlemen, I am really sad, really telling you, when I see Romania, Bulgaria - I am glad for these people, I do not talk about it - 'to get our heads off of us in too many areas. Will this country return to normal? Are we going to make it a normal European country with Greek peculiarities as its characteristic of impeding the whole of this society from the top to the end? Are we going to do it again, a normal country in this country? That's my question. I shall conclude, ladies and gentlemen, with a question again and I would like to hear the relevant ministers here telling me about the trade union law. You're so sad for a lot. Will you answer the simple? Do you agree that the declaration of strike anywhere should involve 50% plus one employee in making a decision? Isn't that the abundance of democracy? What do you think, Mrs. Fotio? I'm waiting for your answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u160	Independent MEP George - Dimitrios Karras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u161	Mr President, in May 2016, the Katorugalou Act, No.4387, was announced as a reform of the insurance system that would ensure its viability over the next few decades. Unfortunately, however, the journey from one May to the other - and I am referring to May 2017 and so far - has shown that this was not a reform, nor has it ensured the viability of the insurance system. It was simply the backbone - and let me say that this cannot be ignored by the government - of reducing the social state, of infringing social rights. And why am I saying that? I shall immediately bring in examples. Firstly, the question of personal differences in the old pensioners was considered a fair measure as a justice measure. It has already been cut by 18% for the next three years, since 2019, to have the known primary surplus of 3.5%. They cut family benefits, and here we see something. We see the one-sided and one-sided policy of the government, which did not even have the right to seek alternatives. When we cut pensions, we remove resources from the economy. We're creating recession conditions. The simplest. To convince us in the House. It could have brought a study that 2.5 billion about cuts in personal differences and family rights per year offer nothing to the economy and could therefore be cut off. Or to prove to us that they should not be cut because the circulation of money, which is multiplier, would pay to the public either in the form of income tax or in the form of VAT or other direct and indirect excise duties, would pay to the economy, would not reduce consumption and the amount of the financial benefit would be that which would lead to the surplus, in order to satisfy the lenders and the claims of the interest they have made. I have to say this: for months now I have specifically asked the ministers and especially the Minister of Finance, I have raised the question of the financial benefit or financial loss in the event of a cut in personal differences. I have not had the honour so far to receive any reply, any explanation, if you like. We see, then, that today in the bill we are discussing this effort, in the sense that - as a matter of fact, I shall be speaking on provisions - we will see that the main pensions, even supplementary pensions, are largely at risk of the level at which they are provided or the level at which they could be granted, if the real system existed, what Mr Katrugalos promised in this House. I have to say that, when he supported Law No4387, the government guaranteed these minimum donations and pension rights, and so I believe that the majority Parliament voted for it, without waiting for the rights to be compromised today. So I think that today's bill is also being introduced, because for an economy that we want to be healthy, we need to look at alternatives. For the Minutes, Mr President, I should like to put the unanswered question, which raises the question of the financial benefit or financial loss of the economy in general in relation to pension cuts. [[At this point Mr Georgios Dimitrios Karras presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I would like to go to a next point on which I have the heat, if you like, because of my legal status. We've been intervening with procedural labour provisions. Do you think it'll speed up? I have to say this. I, at least as a scientist, met them for the first time in 1972 at the university and failed at all times. Why? Because, because of the independence of justice, we cannot, by means of provisions of another category, intervene and intervene in the award periods, because this is why we have intervention in the independence of justice. It's just wishing. I hope that there will be the possibility of meeting the needs of labour disputes in a short time to support both workers' rights and, after all, not to take any more time. However, what has caused me a great deal of trouble is Article 53 for this reason: Article 53 is well known to give rise to a complaint as a result of a dramatic change in working conditions, a right for the worker to claim unemployment benefit. That sounds good to me, I can say it's charitable, but I'm going to go through the opposite bank. Does it, however, lead to corporations that violate the ban on collective redundancies? A bad employer, who can, if you like, pay the compensation, but who cannot obtain the permission, the authorisation to make collective redundancies in the number he wants, stops paying the poor, and the missing workers are denounced as a result of a devastating change, and that is what cannot be achieved by the other legal way, but by the way he is also legislated. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to make just one comment and say that I have listened very carefully to my fellow Members in particular from the Democratic Alliance in relation to the amendment they tabled on widow's pensions, which is really a fact which is a disgrace to the Greek society. I fully agree, because I was the first - let me be proud of this - who a year ago I tabled a topical question immediately after N.4387. Mr Petropoulos had responded with unsatisfactory views - it is not now to comment - and today, while I would be glad to hear that this amendment is accepted, I hear silence. A second point of the same amendment to the Democratic Asylum I would like to congratulate - if you like - because it is for the reintroduction of law now, is on Article 2 for the calculation of a pension for those who have applied for from 1 July 2015 to 12 March 2016. What hides here? It protects those who had acquired the pension right before Law 4387, had mature rights, but people wanted to continue working for the ‘x’ reasons and had not submitted a pension application. Today their pension will be calculated with the new pension law, in 4387, and will be very low. They'll be wronged.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u162	Mr. Carras, let's finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u163	I'll be right over. Thirty seconds, if you're kind, Mr. President. What do I propose, ladies and gentlemen? I propose to those who had acquired mature pension rights before 12 May 2016, date of adoption of Law 4387, that pensions should be issued under the old regime, because this is the only way to grant justice. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u164	Mr. Igoumenides has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u165	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to quote that our Government by the mouth of the Prime Minister promised the inhabitants of Heraklion Crete that they would have access to drinking water from the taps of their homes. With the amendment that we shall be voting on today at the end of the debate, the entire cycle of the government's effort is closed. The Minister, Mr Vernardakis, is here to coordinate all this effort. The financial instruments and the financing of the project have been completed. The task of replacing and extending Heraklion's water network can be started. It also closes the course of practice with this aid amendment from the Government of the JHA Iraklio in order to respond to this great plan. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand the draft law we are debating today as an attempt by the government to alleviate some of the unbeatables of the 'bombed' working environment. "But now," they say from Opposition, "that you do so that the Prime Minister can say things to the PM". In my opinion, ladies and gentlemen of the Officerate, and not just of opposing one another, equating the civilisation that distinguishes you from our political activity, indirectly, and quite clearly you admit that this bill has positive things for the workers. However - and it appeared from the debate in the committee - you stood up. "Be careful not to expose the country to institutions again, do not bring us any steps that you must vote again afterwards, do not bring unspeakable provisions." "We know very well what the institutions are saying and what the institutions are saying," said the rapporteur of the PASOK-DMAR Democratic Association, Minister of Government Samara - Venizelos. Two words: Excess of grief. In my opinion, ladies and gentlemen, we need a great deal of shame for the leaders of the dismantling of collective agreements, the protagonists of the dismantling of the working environment, to call on us to defend it. But what really bothers them? Let's take things in turn. They are disturbed by our orientation, in my view. We believe that in conditions of economic crisis, therefore, not later today, some of the things that characterise the famous European acquis must also be enshrined in our country. We believe that there cannot be a worker in Greece who is not covered by a collective labour agreement. Everything else is black work, black slavery and illegality that must not be recognized anywhere. That is why many workers have something to say about. I will only stand by the hotel staff because they are caught, in fact, by the outbreak of the explosion of tourism, which many have to tell us and show us that there is a lot to do. Below: The workers, where employers put a padlock because they don't come out, have the ability to take over management, continuing the operation of the company, etc. The state for us must support such initiatives, including it in the broader context of the development of the social economy, which, in particular, can give rise to many well-paid jobs, while at the same time strengthening social cohesion. I shall mention a negative example of the last year, which is not the only example of the Ledra Marriottt workers who, despite the efforts made by the government, did not - and we need to have a debate - manage their business. Over two hundred new cooperatives in the six months since the law was passed, however, have started operating. By the end of October, the Social Economy Fund will be activated with the initial capital of 25 million, which will support financial products by institutions excluded from banking lending. In December, 100 information and support centres for social cooperatives will be set up throughout Greece. The current draft law is also in this direction. He's got a classprint. That is first of all what bothers the International Monetary Fund to start with from your masters. This is annoying by the International Monetary Fund. Of course, all of this brings to the surface the questions about the role of the Fund, but also the request to leave Greece and Europe, a request that is not close to the Left, but to the wider social forces and, by extension, to the wider political forces of SYRIZA. This social footprint, this social class mark, is actually annoying New Democracy, which was right on its part with its Vice-President that even if she had no troika, she should have invented it. Allow me very briefly, Mr President, to say that in addition to the criticism on the right, that is to say, from the point of view of the neo-conservative political choices, we have also had a criticism - from the left, that is, in my view, from the same bank as the SYRIZA is. We have heard of unscrupulous measures, of patches, of debris and, in some cases, of deterioration in the situation. With regard to this criticism, let me testify to my opinion. Firstly, there is evidence in the remarks of the Communist Party of Greece that has been accepted by the government. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Thank you for your tolerance, Mr President. I'll be done in a minute. Apart from this, which the government has accepted, I think several comments are remarks on which we must be careful and possibly revert to a subsequent legislative spirit. The second is that all that we are legislating or going to legislate is, in fact, a weapon in the hands of workers and they are usable by the living social forces in their efforts to improve their everyday lives. However - and I imagine that colleagues in the Communist Party will also agree with us - the daily life that workers are experiencing and the path to it or the opposite direction, improvement or worsening of their lives is first and foremost a matter of struggle and association of power. One side of this? "Many lies SYRIZA." Some, in order to degrade the love that the world feels toward the face of the Prime Minister, say: "Many lies Tsipras." Did SYRIZA lie or was that the correlation of forces he couldn't enforce what he wanted? However, and I close with these three findings, from this point of view, you have lasting social struggles and a power association, I would like to mention three things: First of all, the movement was unable to prevent the attack and ultimately the dismantling of industrial relations. Secondly, in this attack, what did the leadership of the trade union movement do? Where was GSEE? Does the leaderships of the secondary organizations and all the trade union movement as a whole have a responsibility for these inadequacies of the movement, yes or no? Is it a solution for trade union action to move through one of our ideological ideological bodies?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u166	Mr. Igoumenides, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u167	I'll be in ten seconds. And on this occasion, the two and a half million uninsured by which body are expressed? Who represents - one and a half yesterday - a million unemployed Greek citizens today? Who expresses and how do young scientists, Greek economic immigrants? With this, which is a great debate, and I am closing with it, Mr President, and thank you very much for your tolerance, I would like to say that it is worth keeping to the conclusion that in the course of a new Greece we obviously need the continued effort of the government, obviously we need the constant struggle of the social forces, but in this struggle, in order to be successful, it is necessary, in my opinion, to overcome the bureaucracy and aristocracy of the trade union movement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u168	Mr Yoyakas from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u169	Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that the government needs to give society some good news at last, to show success, to show that it has not lost its left conscience, its social sensitivity. That is why we understand why he is trying to give this bill much greater importance than the one he is responsible for. It is an intervention overpriced for two main reasons: The first is because it leaves outstanding problems created by the Katrugalos Act with several of them, such as the calculation of pensions under various insurance schemes, to block the final adoption of new pension decisions. Even the issue of supplementary pensions for applications from 2015 onwards does not appear to proceed in the immediate future, following the new calculation method for years of insurance up to 2014 and the inability to calculate the part of the pension for the period of insurance from 1-1-2015 onwards. As a result, a hundred and thirty thousand supplementary pensions remain outstanding. I must point out here the lack of staff, as in the annex to the Ioannina Region which covers the region of Epirus, where there is little staff to meet huge needs, Minister, and we sincerely want you to give a solution, because the anguish of our compatriots is huge, the obligations towards the state large and the delays huge. However, you do not give a solution to accumulated corporate insurance debts, such as the settlement of a hundred and twenty instalments and the freezing of insurance contributions to the former EUPM. I would now like to dwell on the article on the six-month extension of the right to invalidity pensions and allowances, with which it is more legitimate than is the problem of delays in the CEPOL, as we also stressed in the committees with Mr Brutsis. I know firsthand how late it is, for example, the referrals from the former OGA's local services to patients in order to be judged by the CSDP. But the most tragic, Minister, is that there are people with serious disabilities waiting for two and three years until their retirement takes place. I should like to ask the Deputy Minister of Fire to see again the criterion of residence for the ten years to be granted the allowance of the unsecured elderly. As we know, there are many cases of North-West experiences and others that actually stay much longer than ten years in our country, but they cannot prove it, as homes have been granted without rent contracts or have been hosted by close relatives. I believe, Minister, that ways should be sought so that the many cases that actually meet the conditions cannot be excluded from the benefit. I am going through, ladies and gentlemen, in the part of the bill on labour regulations, which, like the insurance part, is all overrated. Several of these regulations can, in fact, limit negative effects on the labour market, while others create new problems in the position of those they are supposed to face. The provision on the temporary closure of companies for infringements of labour law has many blurred points, so that it cannot be implemented. There is also a corresponding issue with the article on the registration of overtime and overworking in the "ERGANI" system, which we expect to be clarified by a ministerial decision. The article which provides for the exclusion of the employer - an infringement of public contracts - deprives public undertakings of the right to take over public works which may in future be judicially justified. There was a great debate in the committee on whether the incentives given to companies to comply with labour law should be positive or negative, that is, whether they should reward compliance or act as a counter-infringement. In the first case, there is a white register of employers, on the other one of offenders. For the time being, the register of offenders in the information system of the Labour Inspectorate, which is necessary to implement the exclusion from public procurement, does not work. It is therefore a question of how two years of infringements will be detected, since the checks and sanctions have not been passed on to the AAR system. A void letter could also constitute a provision for the annulment of an employer's decision on employment contracts where the process of information and consultation with workers is not complied with. Since there are no safe criteria in the legal framework for compliance with the procedure, disagreements and objections may arise, causing obstacles to the operation of an undertaking. But, ladies and gentlemen, it is not just the gaps and ambiguities that threaten to throw away whatever good intentions in the basket of useless ones. The government is unable to adjust what it wants to do and we sincerely expect a good answer to the question of how the close deadlines for labour disputes will be met when the justice system is already overloaded and suffering from a lack of judicial staff. The problem is not dealt with as a whole by amending the Code of Civil Procedure, as Mr Panagiotopoulos has proposed in committee. And in that case the government puts the car in front of the horse. Ladies and gentlemen, these examples alone are, I think, clear that the two important parts of the bill, advertised by the government, are either omitted from urgent issues to unblock pensions or are proposed solutions which are doubtful whether they will work. So if I had to give some advice to the government, I would have told her not to rush to enjoy either excessively or in advance. Tens of thousands of fellow citizens are still waiting in line for a cut-off pension to be issued, and hundreds of thousands of others are waiting for the government to protect the right to decent work, a right which it has taken care to undermine with its destructive policies over the last two and a half years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u170	Mr Andrianos from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u171	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are debating today is the third step of a major communication nature planning government tactics, in view of the presence of the Prime Minister at the IGC. The first step was the education bill, a bill in which the government had invested a great deal, mainly because, unlike the economic field, it believed that it would have had the opportunity to give left-wing credentials. As a result, it was a law full of obsolete ideas, which turns us back decades, undermines the work of universities and seriously jeopardises the viability of postgraduate programs. Step two was disorientation, one with debates about Hitler and Stalin and the other with the notorious article of Prime Minister for Andreas Papandreou, as if we had no further problems in the country and we have the luxury of ideological umbilical umbrella. You have received a strong answer and I have listened to the President of the New Democracy, Kyriakos Mitsotakis. The third step, in the desperate effort of the government to set up an agenda less painful in the IGC, is the bill what, one and a half years later, comes to amend the Katrugalos law before it is implemented as a whole. Unfortunately, however, for the government majority this attempt falls into a gap, firstly because the negative climate for you does not change with communal terrain. It does not change, when electronic auctions begin, from those who had made a motto "No house in the hands of a banker". It does not change, when your citizens hear Minister declare cynically that you left 35 billion lost, in fact 11 billion for 2017 of the Juncker package, because the financial staff cannot make and submit the required plan and balanced budgets for the proposed projects. Ladies and gentlemen, the Juncker package is 35 million, which would create jobs, improve infrastructure, give them an absolutely necessary breath of life in the real economy, and the government lets them get lost because, as your Minister said, it does not make it possible to plan the financial staff. Secondly, of course, the climate does not change, when the bill we are debating today, despite the expectations that have been invested in it, despite the great words, does not respond to the problems of the world of work, many of which have broadly the signature of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. For example, I would just remind you of some of the results of your policy: the loss of two wages for all workers through an increase in direct and indirect taxes and the successive reductions in duty, the pensions of EUR 185, which we saw for the first time and the second time - were ordered to hide for communication reasons. Thousands of pensioners are invited to repay sums collected as temporary pensions, pensions falling by 40% compared to 2014 and now new, additional reductions, three hundred thousand beneficiaries to see pensions totalling EUR 3 billion remain frozen for months. From 1-1-2015 in fact no supplementary pension has been approved at all. To workers, you who were committed to raising the minimum wage to EUR 751, are now creating the generation of workers of EUR 360. Nowadays, we see a historical overthrow in the labour market, with flexible forms of employment now prevailing firmly over full-time. The figures of "ERGANIS" are revealing: In July, parttime work passed on to us was 54.26%, while full-time was 45.74%. Instead of having a dramatic decline in unemployment, with growth that will bring real jobs, we see part-time becoming increasingly dominant, black and undeclared work to remain at the same levels, the people employed falling from measurement to measurement and, above all, the fleeing of young people abroad to increase dangerously, from 11% in 2015 to 33% in 2017. And within this explosive economic and social climate, what does the bill we are discussing today? It provides, firstly, for reductions in pensions. Article 17 confirms the reduction of the subsidiary from 21.4% to 40%. They are reductions, of course, that young retired people will see when the government decides to break off the more than a hundred and twenty-nine thousand applications for supplementary applications that remain on the shelf. For at the moment the hundred and twenty thousand Greeks and their families do not see any euro from the money they are entitled to. Secondly, it provides for tax increases, an increase in withholding from 4% in the Equity Fund to 4.5%, which is, of course, a reduction in wages, a reduction in household income at this extremely difficult juncture. Thirdly, it provides for hidden reductions in military, police, port, university doctors in the ERC, as not to calculate the personal difference in pension years means a reduction in pensions in the future. Of course, within all of this, thirteen crucial budgetary provisions come for discussion in plenary, without being evaluated by the General Accounting Office of the State in terms of the amount of expenditure they entail and, of course, without having a report from the Economic and Social Committee. It is unacceptable at this juncture and in this field critical for society and the economy to come a bill with unspeakable provisions. It is a practice that shows the best case of manoeuvre and the worst unforgivable irresponsibility, and it widens the way to see the current government once again "vote" what it has voted on. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not in a micro-political position and we support the individual provisions in a positive direction, in a positive light, such as for disabled people, such as the speeding up of the trial in cases following workers' appeal, or the unemployment benefit for the incarcerated unemployed. And, of course, I too would like to point out the need for you to correct the great injustice with regard to widow's pensions. It cannot be a widow who is fifty-five years old and underneath having to raise children and not retire. It is unacceptable and you must immediately correct this injustice. We're clear. It is therefore essential to improve the situation at work that the economy is restarted with full recovery of stability, with a favourable framework for new investments, with taxation and contributions that will not, from the outset, condemn any business effort, with a state that will first of all be consistent with its own obligations to the insured and pensioners, its entrepreneurs, its suppliers, and not increase the due amount, as we have just seen, to private individuals in July by EUR 343 million. We therefore have increases in already high contributions to the knees of entrepreneurs, free professionals, scientists and farmers, the domination of part-time employment, the logic of 'to those who do not like to leave the country', which we have heard from the Minister of Government, the adoption of provisions to the limits of legality, which make it even more difficult to make any creative effort, initiative, ideological entrepreneur against entrepreneurship and profit, as if workers could be paid by businesses or by jobs that are damaged. All of this encourages not only the preservation of the problems, but also the further deterioration of them. For these reasons New Democracy is voting against this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u172	Mr Georgadas has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u173	Thank you, Mr President. The truth is that today the government, apparently in a sense of being exposed, has lower tons in this bill. And what do I mean? In previous regulations that came either for pensions, insurance or labour matters, there was usually a barbaric title in the bill, there was the word'reform'. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Ms. CHRISTOPOULOUou, takes over the President's seat.]] It is a word favorite on the majority side, a word truly beloved, which always comes in a very heavy way, but in the end the bills are proved when the laws and ministerial decisions are implemented, empty shirts. So last May we had a great reform of insurance, the reform of Minister Katrugalos. Thus, it was supported and supported by the majority Members of the majority with passion as an incision to the insurance problem, as a solution for the next decades for the issues that really existed and have accumulated. However, while it was under way with previous interventions by the previous 'bad' government, a truly sustainable course for insurance and pensions, we have now achieved something that makes it sustainable. When you have a pension of EUR 185, Mr. Brutsi, the pension is viable. With a pension of EUR 185, yes, pensions can be given, because that is the amount they have earned, when they have made the calculations provided for in the Katrugalos Act, EUR 185. You solved the pension. The problem of retired people, however, who have to live with the EUR 185, I do not think it will be solved in this way. At the same time, I do not think that the problem of workers with the wages of EUR 360 per month, who are the salaries that are currently dominating the market, should be solved. Of course, I do not think anyone will be proud of the government or majority Members when, with the figures in July, we see that the forms of flexible employment are around 54%, compared with 45% of full-time. What title can it stand here, at the moment, when we talk about pension regulations and other insurance provisions, when there are three hundred thousand pensions that are not issued, when there are three hundred thousand people who, having paid for all these years, are waiting to get a pension and not get it? What are we going to respond today to the hundreds of twenty-nine thousand people whose supplementary pensions are frozen from 1-1-2015, because the exact mathematical formula has not yet been issued? These are all tens of thousands of our fellow humans, these are all specific questions, they are not questions related to another planet, they concern people living around us, and we from the province experience it every day. You know that unemployment is not just a number. Unemployment is the picture that comes when it moves between the world when it moves within the market. I think you're also experiencing it and don't want to recognize it. It is not the numbers that may at some point seem a little better because some people have emigrated because there are these forms of flexible employment that we are talking about. The fact that unemployment, pessimism, blackness on the market is widespread everywhere is what we see. But do you know what we also see where it never existed? Previously, in 2014 - and that is what all the people of the market say - there was an upward trend. In the autumn of 2014, we appeared to be heading for a way out of this whole situation, towards a posteriori of the economy. We lived it. Anyone who talks to traders, craftsmen and industrialists at that time will tell them that this was the case on the market. That was on the market then. Now we are trying to get out, but we are not doing it yet, at summer levels, 2014. Today, Mr. Haritsis is visiting to see Kilkis' industries. He had a visit there today. These are industries, buildings which have had many issues for many years, because we have had a great relocation of businesses in Skopje and Bulgaria, but now those left have reduced their staff. They've reduced their wages, they don't have the orders they have to have. Kilkis, who lived from this industrial region, experiences much better than everyone really what is happening, not just when there are no jobs, but when there is no hope, there is no prospect. Do you know why there's no prospect? In order to create a market prospect, so that we can have a good insurance policy, a good pension scheme, there must be a confidence, a credibility of the government. Only confidence and credibility are the ones that can create that climate that is necessary for the development of the economy. What confidence, what credibility, by whom Prime Minister and by what ministers? You know, I won't stay what you said yesterday and what you say today, what you said and what you did. The point is that even today you want to show that you have made a turn in realism - where realism says that one country's wealth grows with the magnification of the private economy, business, the primary sector and not with the recruitment of the public sector - when some voices are heard at some point that you are heading in the right direction, the next time, the same day, another Minister or the Minister himself who said what he said and cancels his previous turn towards realism, towards being investment-friendly, to the businessman. Only by increasing the country's wealth will we be able to talk about a sustainable pension and insurance system. Otherwise, all the bills you bring will be empty content. They will simply say the word'regulations' and they will not solve any question. Wages and pensions will constantly fall. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude immediately, Madam President. Today's sitting, today's debate on this bill will be left for me for just two things. For the first time we are talking about pensions of EUR 185 and EUR 360 wages. If you're happy about all this, vote on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u174	Mr. Rabbit has the floor. You have the floor for six minutes because your Chief spoke.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u175	Since the Chief of Golden Dawn has also spoken, Mr Michaloliakos and our special speaker have been extensively mentioned in today's bill, I would like to make a more general reference to some things that have happened in recent times and while the House has been closed for these days in August. First of all, I would like to make a comment. When the Golden Dawn said five, six years ago, that we would get to the point where the wages and pensions were at the level of Bulgaria and Romania, some people considered it excessive and did not accept it. Today we have reached the shameful point that the Minister of SYRIZA - ANDEL - plus the rest of the Government - will be here to tell us with a height of a thousand cardinals that they will gladly give a guaranteed pension of EUR 345 to Greek citizens. If you want to give those to your families, to your parents, to live with this money. The Greek demandes and claims what he has worked and what he has paid for so many years, what you have eaten them, you have taken them, in cooperation with the previous governments, and you have come and shared the work now. We're talking about this, so you don't think, throwing a tip of 300 euros on the Greek citizen will also have an obligation on you. So let's say what happened in the last few years. We have heard a lot of things happen and things that have not been mentioned by any other party of the Greek Parliament. A few days ago we saw an Iraqi outside the Museum in the center of Athens and circulate, he says, with a sword. The man was running around with a sword and nobody was involved. They caught the gentleman, put him in there, and the case disappeared. After two days there was an incident with some incidents between gangs of illegal immigrants in Agios Panteleimon. They opened heads, risked lives. Nothing happened there. Some people went, they made a few small incubations, and the subject is over. Here, then, we are dealing with a country whose population has been affected by what the rulers do and what the Qualified Opposition and the other parties accept. We are also dealing with a hunt that Greece, patriotism and Orthodoxy accept in our country. We arrived a few days ago to hear here from very high standing in the Greek Parliament that Greece is not a Christian Orthodox state, that what is done is from "taliban of Orthodoxy" and all that. You say that you support the Constitution and the laws of the state. But in Article 3 of the Constitution, it is a basic condition - and it is mentioned explicitly and unequivocally for those who are unwittingly ignorant - that this Constitution of the State and the freedom of our country are based on our Christian, Greek Orthodox faith, no matter how much you want it, no matter how much you want it. We will continue to fight for both our Orthodoxy and our religion, as opposed to you who are bothering you all this. So it comes today - or yesterday, I do not remember when - the Secretary-General of the Ministry of Justice, Mrs Giannakaki, who has been controlled for too many things that she has said, to state in a very fragile way, in a very fragile style - but that is what these people believe - 'good bairami' to our Turkish Cypriots. "Our Turkish Cypriot fellow citizens"? Has anyone told you that there in Cyprus, in northern Cyprus, a war crime has been created? Has anyone told you that from there Greek families were expelled, Greeks who were persecuted after the war and the invasion of Cyprus? Didn't anyone tell you that there are over three and a half thousand dead who defended these sacred soils? Hasn't anyone told you? And you dare go out and say about a "state" that has not been recognized by anyone other than Turkey, and you wish them good Muslim festivities? It's a disgrace to you that thing. It's a disgrace. And the Golden Dawn will be here and will humiliate you for what you're saying. What's this? And you represent the Greek Government and the Greek nation right now? No, you represent only the ideal you have, you represent only the complex and the complexes of inferiority that you have in the face of Greece and our religion. A few days ago, in particular on Friday - and we say some things, because you are not giving us another step to talk about them beyond the Greek Parliament - there was an incident in the Piraeus region. Some para-state tramps, of those who here and the President of the Parliament and the rest of the government when entering the courtyard of the Parliament and in these areas say that "Children have done nothing. These children have not been harmed.' Some, then, of this convoy of horsemen attacked a elected regional counselor of the Golden Dawn, Mr. Pericles Mullianakis, beat him, broke his car and robbed him of some papers and documents he had in the car. The terrible thing is not here, because these are now considered data in Greek society. The terrible thing is that this man went to the Pirate Police Directorate, denounced the fact, said that he specifically recognizes two people who attacked him and said that in this particular area, an anarchist site there in Piraeus, he had undertaken to do this event. They held an event on the day on which Mr Mulianakis fell, which I mentioned. When we told the police that he should also go to the self-defense's process, the Piraeus Police Directorate said to me that I had gone there: "You are right, Mr. MEP, but we can't do anything and we feel ashamed. There is nothing we can do, because these are the orders that are given to us." That's the process. And when we were then looking to find - it was Friday afternoon - the D.A., they explicitly refused to give us his phone to come into contact, to let him know what's going on, and to see if the order is not there being any inquest is from the D.A. or the police has moved alone. This is the process and the Greek state in which we live. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Then, a few hours later, on Saturday at dawn, an explosive mechanism was placed in the car of another Golden Dawn strain in the area of Petroupoli, Michael Giannogona. That's the kind of thing that didn't sound. There's no violence, there's nothing about it. That's what the Golden Dawn handles on its own. However, I am saying this so that the Greek people can hear what the consequences are, what the hunt is, what the persecutions of a parliamentary party are, as much as they do not want us to be a parliamentary party, which represents a very large part of the Greek people. And you all together listen to it - or very likely you don't even know it - and no one does it, because you've been through it as a very reasonable and very good thing that a Chrysangenite can be beaten, it can be persecuted, without having done anything, just because that's his ideology. Because time is running out, I'd like to fill in something and close with it. I would like to say that it is shameful what is happening with the electronic auctions of the left-wing government. You're going to sit in the government again, because you're stuck with chairs and you're going to be humiliated every day. You'll show who's left. Because you're the Left, really. That's your ideology. With electronic auctions they will take the houses of Greek citizens, they will take the property of Greek citizens by opaque procedures, by pressing a button. Without anyone knowing anything, he'll suddenly know he's on fire at home. Like this. And you will then give food, as you say, food, money around 550 euros and homes to illegal immigrants, at the same time as taking the homes of Greek citizens. And that is why the Golden Dawn, we say to the Greek people, has made a resolution - a protest against which they will try to unconstitutionalise this law, because it is clearly part of the anti-racist law that you have all brought. But because racism exists here only at the expense of the Greeks, we will operate in this context. So it is unconstitutional, and all Greek citizens will claim with this resolution...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u176	Come on, Mr. Comrade, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u177	We will enter cafes, villages and cities to ask the Greek citizens for what you give illegal immigrants. So give the poor Greek, who has been working for so many years, to give the poor Greek, the unemployed person, who does not have to put his head under a tiles, to give him home, to give him land and to give him money, to earn his hunger and the suffering to which you have put him. This is Golden Dawn. So we will fight and see if this law comes unconstitutional after the intervention of the Golden Dawn. And as long as you fight us, we will continue and shout "Greek Christians"!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u178	Juda here!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u179	We've been creeped, Mr. Rabbit. Where did you remember that now? Is that possible? Such expressions of Judas in the Greek Parliament? That's never heard of. Please don't do this again. Mrs Ahtsoglou has asked for the floor. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u180	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a brief speech on a few issues that have been raised and I will make my position more fully on the bill tomorrow. It is currently being discussed in plenary and in the committees in the last few days, a bill which undoubtedly has a positive sign and positive regulations for workers and society. And I think that if anyone wants to be honest and a little out of the need to make a strong opposition and to raise the tone, they can only accept that. That is, that we have arrangements here, that we have a hundred and twenty articles, which each have an essential intervention in favour of the world of work, and that is to say, a practical problem, which we have reflected after the contacts we have made with the workers. These and the circumvention of the social dialogue, which the Democratic Incorporation denounces, to inform and discuss with the social partners, have also been discussed with the workers in the country and discussions have been held with the workers and the Committee has also been consulted in the committee, where we heard the social partners and the various bodies there, and the Committee has also tabled its proposals. I think, therefore, that it is a bill with a positive sign and its particular political value is that it is the first purely protective bill of the Ministry of Labour from the start of the crisis to the present day. It is important because, at the time that there is a positive dynamic recovery of the Greek economy, there is an intervention by the Ministry of Labour to establish some basic labour rights or to extend others where they were not there, to fill gaps in the system in relation to undeclared and implied work, to give more security to workers to cope with the phenomenon of unpaid work, to better shield labour legislation. While we could discuss the provisions of this bill - it is a rich bill, it has many arrangements for people with disabilities, for their rights to be strengthened, and in insurance it has certain provisions that solve fixed problems in the insurance system, settle requests from these social groups on insurance - I have heard again from the rapporteur of the New Democracy, as was done during the committees, choose to take the debate somewhere else. Once again I have not heard a single word about the articles of this bill, about the hundreds of eighteen articles in the bill. I heard again taking the conversation somewhere else. I have also told the committees that I do not understand why he feels that he is favouring taking the debate to the indicators of unemployment or employment or to the debate on the Juncker package and investment. Okay, he thinks he favors taking the conversation there. Let me say, then, that I too have two numbers from ELSTAT to see whether, in fact, this debate favours Census, taking it there and not talking about the provisions of the bill. In New Democracy, according to ELSTAT data, the people employed in the country were reduced by two hundred thousand. The Samara Government has never known unemployment below 25%. Unemployment is now at 21.7%. That's what ELTAT says. We claim it's okay? Are we claiming things are good on the labour market? Oh, no. Unemployment is too high and we are working intensively to keep it down and I think we are bringing results. But I honestly don't understand why Skilling considers it a privileged field to discuss the indicators of unemployment. The highest positive balance, between 2001 and today, is recorded by the "ERGANI", with an increase in new jobs by two hundred and sixty thousand in the first seven months of 2017. For the composition of employment. Once again, I do not understand why dedicated opposition considers these indicators to be a privileged field to make political controversy there. In March 2013, full-time: 64%. When New Democracy delivers the government full-time was at 46%. A seismic overthrow in the relationship between full-time and part-time. Again, it insists on bringing the debate into this field where the figures and reality do not favour it. Mr President, I apologise, but I will not reach six minutes. I repeat, at the moment the situation on the labour market is such that further intervention is needed, because part-time relationships are very high, it is almost half of the new recruitment and it needs work, but I do not think that CSR really has any margin to make its opposition line on these indicators. Same for wages. The wages you report are the wages you have created. I told you to the committees. The wages you report are the wages you have created. With the 2012 Ministerial Council Act, the minimum wage fell to EUR 586. Within one night with legislative intervention, it fell to EUR 586 - 510 for young people - under the average wage for part-time work at the time. And you think you can denounce this government for wages. Therefore, ELSTAT's figures show that in recent years there has been a dramatic drop in wages, a percentage - I mentioned the number of committees - I do not want to do so again - and that we are currently in a stabilization. Again, wages are low, it takes a lot of work to be done there too, and I think that the financial data as they begin and are presented for 2017 show a recovery trend. It takes time and a pooled effort. But I honestly do not understand why you consider these indicators to be a privileged field. Then I hear the conversation with the Juncker package. Let's get to know each other. Greece is in the first positions between the European Union countries in making use of the Yunker package. In 2016 we have a record of funding agreements for Greece by the European Investment Bank. Foreign direct investment in 2016 amounted to 2.9 billion, noting a high seven-year period and 1 billion. only for the first quarter of 2017, but it will then be better. In the public investment programme, for the first time after many years, we have an important increase in its budget and will become an extension for 2018. In 2017 and 2018, an increase of 1 billion is expected. I think it is really unfavourable - and I note every word I am using - for a place that has been behind the great deinvestment crisis, which has occurred in the country - in 2009-2014, private investment has decreased by 67% - to abandon this government for growth rates and for the way it faces investment. I think you are trying to confirm the neoliberal logic that investment comes only if you reduce the tax rates to large companies or if you compress labour costs. The reality, however, disguises you, because the deinvestment crisis has, in the years ahead, occurred in the period 2009-2014. I do not understand why you think this is your privileged field and I do not understand why you are choosing to take the ball to the platform and not to discuss the arrangements of this bill. Then, the second criticism line I heard is that this bill is a communication bill, a bill that comes to fill the Prime Minister's basket on the exhibition, a bill that is a fig sheet or a smokescreen. Each regulation of this bill has the stories of tens of thousands of workers who experienced that even selfless ones were questioned. They are workers who have worked overtime and have not been declared overtime and have not been paid overtime, workers who have worked and have not been paid, who have been unpaid for months and have been caught in a company that does not pay them, who have claimed to receive a redundancy payment, as they have been entitled to, and have not been able to take it. Behind each of the arrangements of this bill there is an intervention that will help them in their everyday lives. They are the stories of tens of thousands of workers who, from the very next day on, will make their lives better by voting for this law. I don't claim, I never claimed that this bill solves everything. It is a targeted bill, which tries to cover the problems of the labour market for undeclared, unpaid and enslaved work, but in these three areas, with its interventions, the daily lives of workers will be improved the next day. I think that all Members, who are in this Chamber, should respond when they are called upon to vote on the bill, with all the criticism of the overall political framework. They must at the end, however, answer whether each one of these arrangements helps the world of work and whether they consider that they should or should not, in their vote, support such an arrangement to improve people's daily lives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u181	Mr. Loverdos has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u182	We did not intend, Madam President, to take the floor. Our speech had been set for tomorrow morning, we have said so to the Bureau, but it is really challenging that it should be a member of this government, the Minister, a moment ago, and that the House should give its sincerity to the critical treatment of the draft law. It is not possible for the professional liar, who states that I said the things I said because I was deceived at political level, who puts the issues on whether Andreas Papandreou was a liar or not, to compare him with him, who confesses to being a liar, because he says 'a liar, but not a thief', to give us political advice on honesty here. It begins to develop its arguments, the Minister responsible for telling another lie. There is - it says - the opinion of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. When the Committee, the Economic and Social Committee, delivers its opinion before the draft law comes to Parliament. It shall draw up a report, discuss this report with the Ministry in an open procedure with the institutions present and then proceed with the proceedings to Parliament. It is a very important phase for these topics before Parliamentary legislative procedure. There's no such thing as that. The Minutes accompanying this draft law prove this. Furthermore, it is possible to make a policy of cutbacks - because this is the framework of the Ministry - on the main and supplementary pensions, to eliminate the ESS and to have the courage to talk about honesty, while others you have promised, and here in Parliament, to present provisions which, to the greatest extent, do not offer what you are telling us here. Is it possible to present them as provisions, as the Minister of Finance said, which is the one step out of the memorials? You're one thing for us. What you said before the elections, and September and January 2015, and what you say afterwards, you are one thing, a political subject, which is impossible to integrate into European political geography. You're an subject who only knows how to demagogue, only to lie he knows how to talk about a minimum wage of EUR 751 and to do what he's done today, that is, to have the ESS disappeared.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u183	Come on, Mr. Loverdo, finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u184	And you, Minister, are relinquishing the Members of this House with various things, and you came here to correct what your Minister, Mr Flavouraris, said on Sunday about the Juncker package and criticise the criticism you were made, showing another picture of what he had shown himself on Sunday morning and which was another crack for your Government. You guys come here personally and tell us things? I have to read - and this is what I am closing down, Madam President - a reversal of a speech from you: the right, says, is made by the people, not by the troika technocrats. They have abolished rights, because we were with a sliding head. Elimination of a memorandum will be the first act of the left government, repealing the HISA, reintroducing the minimum wage to 751. And in your days, whether as minister of the Council or as minister, the biggest cuts have been made since the first moment of the crisis and the other six, seven years. You have reduced credibility for this to address the House with more attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u185	Mr. Loverdos, you'll say a lot more condensed tomorrow. Mr. Karathanasopoulos has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u186	To accept, Minister, your good intention, that you want the bill to have a positive sign. But I have some questions to ask. First of all, when there is a working time arrangement and someone can be working today five hours, tomorrow ten, tomorrow three, why is it not on a weekly basis for fixed working time, then how will overtime be covered to ask for overtime payments? Question number one. Question 2, when the unacceptable regime is maintained that for a year the worker will be trialable, so if within this one year he is fired he will not have the right to compensation, what to claim? The third question is that you are talking about the delay in the payment of recruits, and we have told you examples here, and there are too many of them. Ledra Marriot: Where will they get money? They'll move in to get a court order against who? Some who are shareholders of an anonymous company that is unknown, why are the shares anonymous? On the substance of what you put it, it turns towards a personal company, a fellow company, a heterogeneous company, a heterogeneous partner. In fact, with such a provision, you're chasing small people who don't pay that way, professionals, traders, microbiologists, who are natural persons as owners, and the other one for a natural person to make an order. For an anonymous company, which is offshore from behind, against whom will it move and turn when you do not include the shareholders of the company, those who have to account much more and no more you have banned them from insurance when they are owed? From this point of view, therefore, we say that you may have these positive attitudes, but when you maintain such an anti-virtual framework, all these are air words on the substance and have no practical effect. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u187	Thank you for keeping time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u188	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u189	Here, Mrs. Ahchioglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u190	I would like to answer the KKE MEP. I do not think it is right to speak only of dispositions and not of substance. I think you're able to understand each of these settings because it helps the worker. Until yesterday the employee was rarely able to make a payment order for due wages and you know that. And I think Mr. Loverdos knows that, even though he used to make a position on the arrest. Until yesterday, it was very difficult to order payment for fees due, i.e. to be able to execute against the property of an employer or a legal person, not to anonymous companies. That's the way it is. Not the anonymous corporations. And I'll explain why. With the provision we are bringing, this is now becoming very easy. It's visible. The judge can directly pull out an enforceable title for the benefit of the worker. This possibility was not in place until yesterday and is a tool given to the worker. Until yesterday overtime was not declared electronically. They were held double, threefold books, declared overtime depending on whether the check passed or did not pass. And you know that undeclared overtime is unpaid overtime. They will now have to declare them in advance, check it out, there will be an electronic announcement. This can only be for the benefit of workers. Until yesterday there were no rules on building works. The workers were not declared anywhere in the construction works. There's rules on building work. People will begin to be declared, their working hours, paid for, and that can only be in the interests of the workers. So there's my location. I don't claim we're solving everything. There is a certain framework. We told the committees that too. And there could be more to do in Labour Law to get back on its feet slowly and be as protective as it should be. Each one of these arrangements, however, solves specific problems. Regarding the regulation on voluntary departure: until yesterday - you know, I am sure of that - very often the workers who suddenly seemed to have left their work were surprised to see that they had voluntarily left their jobs, and in fact had fired them. It is currently covered by the regulation that we are bringing this issue forward, and it can only be in the interest of the worker. I think it is worth re-seeing each of these regulations that have been positively involved in the daily lives of workers. For public limited companies, there is indeed a whole company law behind it, which has a different structure for the responsibility of the persons in the board of directors of a public limited company. It could not be solved by a regulation now. It would mean a total change in the liability of the public limited liability company. We need further examination to see what is happening in these cases. I did not say that this issue was resolved with this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u191	Madam President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u192	Mr. Karathanasopoulos, we won't have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u193	For a minute, Madam President. I'm not gonna take the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u194	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u195	You said overtime. You have not spoken, Madam Minister, and unfortunately you confirm that. When this release of the working time arrangement exists, what overtime are we talking about? One of the prisoners. Secondly, you also confirmed the issue of anonymous companies that it cannot turn towards shareholders and shareholders' properties. So you're looking towards very small businesses and not the very big ones with this provision you're bringing. Thirdly, if you really wanted to protect those in debt, you should accept the amendment that we have tabled, which says that wages, wages and wages of workers are being liquidated, and not the banks first, after the insurance funds, tax, and finally what the workers are staying. Change the bankruptcy code. Why don't you change him, if you really want the employee to get something from his dues? Because you know very well that many companies are proclaiming bankruptcy, as they will now do at the press distribution agencies and the employee is not going to get anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u196	We're coming back to normal. Mr. Mitaris has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u197	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, I have heard your comment on the New Democracy rapporteur's choice of being placed in the big picture. After your intervention, however, it is evident that he did well. Because the biggest problem at the moment in the Greek labour market is the highest level of unemployment and your bill, with the hundred and twenty articles, does not actually contribute to reducing unemployment, does not create a new job. And at the end of the day, these big issues are the ones we need to discuss in the House. Over the past few days, we have witnessed a late Prime Minister's friendship attack on business and entrepreneurship. Delayed and pretextful. And I say 'pretextual', because only in words are you supporting investment. The actions tell you exactly the opposite. Investments dived by 17%, according to ELSTAT's latest data. The anemic GDP growth by only 0.8% - below your target, under the budget - has finally been based on consumption and not on the creation of new jobs, not on new investments. And this consumption, of course, is not the result of an increase in incomes, but, on the contrary, of the elements we have, it appears that the Greeks were "treating" from the ready, "treating" from their savings. In your eyes - to speak only for the last few days - the Greek is a forest and archaeological site. The Syrian mayor and the Syrian regional mayor block the investment in Kassiopi, even though it is licensed by the Council of State. The investment in Halkidiki is frozen, OSH is stalled, the Yunker package is not being exploited. And the most recent data we have on the ESRB - the Bank of Greece says so - is that absorptions are falling from European Union packages. These are the evidence. And this reality is not corrected by company visits and, indeed, when you are taking on investment like the company "PAPASTRATO", which was finally delayed two years, due to the climate that SYRIZA created before and after the 2015 elections. Madam Minister, you have spoken of the investments. You always choose SYRIZA to confuse the period 2010-2015, but it has two distinct parts. It has the period 2010-2012, which we had the shock of the memorandum, and in the period 2012-2014, where Greece started with -7% recession and in 2014 it had a positive rate of growth. In 2013 and 2014 it had a budget surplus, it had a surplus in the current account balance. According to the JRC, Greece at that time attracted EUR 37 billion for new investments. Four of them more than one billion euros each: The Greek, TAP, the privatisation of Eurobank, regional airports, etc. On the other hand, since 2015, you have absolutely nothing new to say to attract new investments. Why do I mention this today? Because your inability to achieve the goal of growth costs wages, costs pensions, costs maintaining the high level of unemployment. Greece had today, according to the course of the Greek economy at the end of 2014, to have created two hundred thousand jobs more than it has today. Unemployment is four units more than it should have been in the course of our course. Today's bill, apart from the fact that it does not create any new jobs, again comes to talk about insurance arrangements. Member of the Council of the European Union, and in particular the President of the Council of the European Union, of the Russian Federation, of the Russian Federation, of the Russian Federation, of the Russian Federation, of the Russian Federation, of the Russian Federation, of the Russian Federation, of the Russian Federation, of the Russian Federation, of the Russian Federation and of the Russian Federation. I guess I'm forgetting a few others. This actually proves that your law is not operational. Nor is EKA operational today. The establishment plan is waived, the benefit regulation, which, every time we come to the House, tells us that they come as soon as they are printed. And, of course, you are now disciplinaryly terrorizing those officials who dare to speak truths. However, with so many changes, with what we are discussing today, pensions cannot come out. Tell us, how far did pensions go in the summer with the motives you were supposed to give? Minimum progress. In fact, they only proceeded with a few simple cases. No successive pension, no final pension, no supplementary pension. It's not like you don't have any employees. You haven't taken out the circulars you need. And as the time goes, you see that many of the provisions of the Katrugalo Law are simply inapplicable. What about the subsidiary? Today we confirm that it will be reduced to 40%. But will they be issued? Because Article 17 does not ultimately unblock the issue of supplementary pensions, it does not bring the missing mathematical type. No new subsidiary has been issued since 1-1-2015. Over a hundred and twenty - nine thousand applications are pending. It's not just that you can't handle the problems. It's that you don't want to issue pensions. Don't you have the money or your numbers aren't coming out? And we're telling you, because the money from the FBI, it turns out, doesn't go the right way. Perhaps - even worse - you saw how much pensions will be with your own rules. Because already in May 2016, the new reduced basic pensions under the Katrugalou law apply to new pensions. You made decisions on pensions of EUR 185, you were terrified, and you ordered them to stop extradition. The President of the IKA's employees reported it here. Do all you can to avoid drinking the bitter glass that you created with your own law, but mainly with the return of the Greek economy to the recession in 2015. And you legislated on the "get" and deliberately don't want, you can't solve the problems. Restore the EAFRD's "gum", you get 395 million with an EAFRD issued a few days ago. You are, of course, telling us at the same time that the EFCA's revenue is going great. But if they go perfectly, isn't it enough for current pensions? Do we have to break the mud? Do you actually turn the way for new pension reductions beyond 1,8 billion euros, which the Greek people know you legislated to apply from 1-1-2019? I'll close by saying something about Article 16. You are talking about the repayment of unduly paid contributions. You refer, I imagine, to the free professionals, who are still paying today on the basis of the incomes of 2015. Where is the famous clearing with the 2016 figures? You said it would happen in September. Is it going to happen in September? In September's clearing house, will the new numbers apply? Because the figures of the Ministry of Finance show that the incomes of the free professionals decreased by 20% in 2016. Will this create a new hole for you? Tell us that answer, Minister. In conclusion, I would like to ask the following question: why have free trade incomes been reduced in 2016? They have either been reduced because tax evasion, so the control mechanisms are not working, or the 70% that a successful free trader is finally asked to pay does not have an incentive to produce. Because, in the end, what Katrugalou did was to equilibrium all Greece down. This is your vision instead of giving the hope to productive Greece to create. That's what the New Democracy will do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u198	Mr Antonopoulou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u199	Thank you, Madam President. The Minister said a moment ago that the Qualifications are choosing the wrong field of controversy. You didn't hear her. You repeat the same thing all the time. You said, Mr Mitarkis, and repeat what we have heard all day - that, as far as unemployment is concerned, you have done better. You said that you could handle the issues facing the country, and we cannot handle them, that we legislate on the knee, while you did not legislate on the knee and that you had those policies that are investment-friendly. What did you do? You brought unemployment to the country from 7.5% to 27.5%.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u200	We found it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u201	During your governance, New Democracy - PASOK, you lost two hundred thousand more jobs. I heard you say today that you have added jobs. Two hundred thousand jobs have been lost during your own governance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u202	Oh, no. George A. Papandreou.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u203	Oh, no. It's your day.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u204	Mr. Yakumato, you're on the list. I'll talk to you later.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u205	It wasn't these days. Don't get confused!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u206	It's your day.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u207	It wasn't these days. I was Minister. You'll hear them later.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u208	The latest ELSTAT figures tell us that in May 2014 you had brought unemployment to 27.2%.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u209	Not us. George A. Papandreou.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u210	Didn't you rule then? Who was ruling?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u211	Oh, no. PASOK ruled.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u212	Was 2014 someone else? In 2014 who was in the government of the country?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u213	He ruled PASOK alone.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u214	Oh, now it's the others' fault!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u215	Don't give up on that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u216	Please don't have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u217	Since we cannot take a turn, Madam President, we will have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u218	Listen. You don't read.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u219	Finally, let's talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u220	Let the Minister finish. You're registered. You'll talk later.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u221	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u222	I'll never talk. It's a House of Plenipotentiaries. All the fathers are talking. The MPs don't talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u223	That's the Rules of Procedure. Ask for a change, only the pedals and passers talk. Come on, Mrs. Antonopoulou, finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u224	Keep falsifying the evidence. Continue selecting elements that allow you to level all positives. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Will you allow me to finish? You keep using data selectively to level and weaken, in your opinion, the work of the Government. We'll move on. We're looking forward. The figures you give continue to disprove yourself.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u225	Mr. Metarakis wants to make an intervention.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u226	Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u227	Please, let me run like I do.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u228	Mrs Antonopoulou, she has chosen what many SYRIZA ministers are doing to confuse the 2010-2012 period with the period 2012-2015. The Samara Government swore in June 2012 and delivered it in January 2015. He found unemployment at 27.9% and delivered it to 25.4%. He found the undeclared job at 40% and delivered it to 13%. He found the Greek economy with a recession of 7% and delivered it with 1% growth. It found a primary deficit and a current account deficit in 2012 and delivered a surplus in 2014 to both.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u229	It's not true.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u230	Madam Minister, don't interrupt me. Do you know what governments are judging, Minister? From what they receive and what they deliver. We received a recession and delivered growth. You received growth and returned the country to the recession!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u231	Please, ladies and gentlemen. Everyone will speak and say your arguments. Mr. Fotillas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u232	You delivered her to 26.5%.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u233	He said, "collective," Mr. Metarakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u234	Leave it to me. At 26.5% you and 21.7% of us!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u235	Please, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Fotella, I'm trying to give you the floor. Wait a minute. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Please! Mercy, so passion is not needed for evidence.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u236	Ladies and gentlemen, may I?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u237	Here, Mr. Firela, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u238	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteur has named this bill, and he is absolutely right. Really, what's this bill answering? The government says he's coming to heal the open wounds. Which one, ladies and gentlemen of the government? Really, what wound is healing this bill? Does it heal the reduction of over two wages for all workers through direct and indirect taxes, from contributions and from two successive reductions in duty? Does it heal absolute sovereignty for the first time in the labour market of flexible forms of work rather than full-time or unprecedented departure of young people abroad? Let me remind you that the trend in SYRIZA years has tripled. In fact, for the complete release of team redundancies with a simple three-month warning you didn't tell us anything. So let the Greek people know - and listen to it too - whether you and you are ashamed, although I do not think you have such sensitivities - that you have voted for the first time for the release of collective redundancies. The 'first time left' voted for it on its own. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill not only heals wounds, but with a view to making a few minimum provisions, which are coming in the right direction, is coming to completion of the crime. There are extermination contributions, which literally dismantle free professionals, scientists, farmers. There are unfair and unjust pension cuts that exceed EUR 10 billion in current and tomorrow's pensioners, reductions that translate into loss of up to three pensions. A strong blow to the low pensioners is the complete abolition of the CSCE and the abolition of widow's pensions. A unprecedented posture of payments to main and ancillary pensions of EUR 3 billion, involving a hundred and thirty-nine thousand main pensions, a hundred twenty-seven thousand subsidiary and sixty-three thousand single. This is the reality of which Mr Tsipras wants to escape. It is, however, the reality that Greek citizens experience. Mr Brutsis, Mr Yannis, I was following you at the meetings of the Committee on Social Affairs last days, when you tried to take out even one truth from the mouth of the Ministers. All you heard - which we have all heard - is that the government is bringing wage increases. Well, you were fighting unfairly. They won't tell you half the truth. By the end they will insist on baptizing the fish, meat. Liars to the end! And a chef is Mr. Tsipras!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u239	Madam President, what are these?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u240	Does it bother you?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u241	Of course it bothers us.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u242	He's the only Prime Minister who accepted the name of a liar to convince us he's not a thief. And I'm ashamed and sad, not for Mr. Tsipras...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u243	What's this? Speak better!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u244	It was made public, Mr. Dritsa. He said it!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u245	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u246	He's the only Prime Minister - I say again - who tried to convince us and accepted the characterisation of a liar to convince us that he's not a thief. It is sad not for Mr Tsipras, but for the institution he represents. Let us say, then, the truths to be heard and let the government insist on its own tale. So it is true that for your days, ladies and gentlemen of the government, we are talking for the first time about salaries of EUR 360 and pensions of EUR 185. It is true that instead of freezing the contributions to the free professionals, as the Prime Minister promised last year to the PMI, all you managed to freeze is the blood of the insured with the increases in their contributions. It is true - I know that I told you again, but I am not satisfied with reminding you - that for the first time the SYRIZA - ANEL voted for group redundancies. Truly, undeclared work on our day came down about thirty units. Tell us how much further you've downloaded it in two and a half years of government. It is true that no investment is going on and no new investor has reason to invest in the country while you are at the wheel. As it is true, never, in any place has there been growth with the recruitment of civil servants. The only thing that can come in this way is 'thicks'. And besides, it's the only thing you're interested in. It is true, as Mr Flamouraris has since confessed to a crisis of sincerity, that we have lost a shut-down of billions because the government is unable to plan business plan and expedition, which you need to open a tavern, not to govern the country. Do you now think of a candidate investor, who is thinking about investing his money and the question 'Why didn't we use the Junker package?' He listened to the Minister's answer: 'Because he wanted a job, and he had an expense, and he wanted a plan...'.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u247	No need for imitation. You're not an actor, Mr. Lightla.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u248	I don't understand, Madam President. I will allow you not to censor the way I speak. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u249	You need to!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u250	Finally, it is true that with the SYRIZA Government - ANEL there can be no prospect. Only with the New Democracy and Kyriakos Mitsotakis can there be another policy for attracting investment and we will soon prove it to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u251	Mr Antoniadis, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u252	Madam President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u253	The Minister wants to make an intervention.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u254	Madam President, every time a Member speaks, will a Minister answer? Is that foreseeable? Please! We'll never finish! You can't do that!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u255	I have never bothered you again, Mr Papoutsis, and I have not bothered you at all. Look, it's not through constantly invoking lies that we can create the reproduction of newspaper news. It can't be done! That is not Parliament! You all know that, Mr Brutsi, it is a pity that you were the Minister of Labour for this people to say that all of you and to repeat that the business plans did not do so by the government, when you know very well - if you are ignoring it, I apologise now, to correct it - that business plans are done by businesses. And if business doesn't do it, they can't take the Yunker package. How does this lie repeat from the morning that we came here from ministers, MPs, from people who are decent? So much we've arrived there now that if they repeat it a hundred times and say it all the media that we have, will the Greek people believe it? I have to say that that's what goes beyond me now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u256	Well, all right, Mr. Antoniadis? It wasn't long enough, didn't it cut you off? Come on, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u257	You're the president!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u258	I am obliged when they ask for the floor, to give the floor. You will not comment on how I manage the meeting.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u259	Yeah, but they can't answer every congressman. So we'll never finish. Let them gather the concerns and questions and answer a total of five, every ten Members. Time's up already. I heard Mr. Fotella talking about the business plan. I will ask, Mr Colleague, what impression is there on the inside and abroad, when the Prime Minister himself questions and wonders whether a businessman will come to invest the 300 million at the place and asks his director 'truths'? What message sends abroad? Before I enter the bill, however, I am obliged to say, because there are some developments in the energy sector and also in the Florina Prefecture, and it is timely that if Florinas shut down, and I am talking about the steam power station, there will be many disasters because more than two thousand jobs are at stake. We have been calling for a dialogue with the Minister and the government for months and there is no such dialogue. We are calling for the ending of the wealth that exists in the region to be stopped and for minimum compensation to be given. Sadly, a voice of oxen in the wilderness. Also, and I close this intervention, it is unacceptable in an area that is tested instead of the Prime Minister coming over the problems, coming to attend a concert at the Prespecies and, indeed, refusing to see the representatives of the region, the representatives of the labour centre, the EEB and the farmers. That's all about Florinna and Mr. Tsipras. I have heard Mrs Ahtsoglou say - and I am not going to repeat it - that the criticism is that the bill is a communication game that serves the Prime Minister's game. I'm not repeating it. I would like to ask her: has she not understood that two and a half years is this the Minister and her Government and that they are the ones that reduce wages and pensions and continue to say that the New Democracy's privileged field is to reduce wages? Still with the ghost of New Democracy in the government do you live? I also heard Mr Tsakalotou's speech - here is the most brief joke of the day - that this bill is part of the hard core to get out of the crisis. In fact, in order to strengthen his argument, he also invoked the Ministry of Education bill. Only he didn't tell us what days he was talking about because Monday - Wednesday - Friday we have double-checks Panhellenics, Tuesday - Thursday - Saturday we have monks and Sunday they're gone, they're not there at all. This is the "cup" reading to get out of the crisis. Well, that's not a joke. Ladies and gentlemen, we are all discussing this at a time when the government has - let us see the environment - 600 million less in revenue in the implementation of the budget, when the Yunker package is in Nadir because of all the known reasons, which Mr Flavourris has mentioned, including the workload they have, when Greece is in the lowest position in the Agricultural Development Programme, which we are monitoring. The government's overdue debts have risen to 5.5 billion, increasing 50% from where we handed them. In conclusion, we are all discussing this at a time when the Prime Minister is setting inaugurating figures on what previous governments have studied, tendered and implemented, but the completion of the projects was to him. He is the one who blamed the Prime Minister's predecessors, when they were doing the same, for the old-fashioned and voter's policy and doing the same according to the will, wherever and as he is concerned. On the substance of this is a bill written on the foot with a number of vague and controversial provisions. The only thing we can be sure of is the forthcoming reductions in supplementary pensions from 21% to 40%, the issue of a hundred thousand supplementary pensions, because they are still looking for the mathematical type of calculation. For the first time in the labour market we are witnessing part-time workers with EUR 360 and, of course, for the first time, we are seeing the creation of a generation of retired people with EUR 185. For two and a half years, nothing has been done about undeclared work, which we received at 40% and delivered to 14%. Unfortunately, today she's where we left her. I should also like to stress that according to official figures in the seven months of January - July 2017, flexible forms of employment account for 53% compared with 47% of full-time. I'm passing this too quickly, because there are some things we need to highlight. Ladies and gentlemen, we must point out that this bill introduces new customs and cultures into the country's public life. Instead of solving the problems, we legalise the patches. For example, with Article 30, instead of solving the real problem, which is the timely meetings and decision-making by the CEPR committees, as was done in the New Democracy, the extension of six months of the disability pension to the beneficiaries is introduced. This is also the case in Article 53 with the payment of an OAED allowance to the unemployed. Instead of minimizing the time of the dispute between employer and employee, they extend the OAED's allowance to the unemployed by recognising the risk that OAED would never get back the public money it paid in the event of no employee's right. Under no circumstances should the citizen pay for the inadequacy of public administration or government. These two cases give the mark of the real policy pursued by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, namely, not to deal with and solve the real and difficult problems faced by Greek society, but to overcome the problems that arise. As time does not allow me to respect my next colleagues, I enter the last page. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law, instead of giving solutions and opening up new quality and well-paid jobs, only goes with punishment and provides for strict penalties and business closures. It is a political and social necessity to reform the insurance system, a major reform in the insurance system, which will ensure recompense, justice and sustainability, a strong reform in labour relations, ensuring the dignity of workers in society and the harmonious coexistence of employers and workers. One thing is certain: neither this bill nor the SYRIZA Government - ANEL can guarantee them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u260	Mr Vernadakis, Minister of State, asked for the floor. Mr. Vernadakis, how much time do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u261	I'm going to need two minutes and I'm going to make a speech on the disability section.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u262	So, how long are you going to take?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u263	As far as I'm entitled, Madam President. How old is he? Five minutes? Seven minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u264	You're entitled to five minutes. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u265	What I want to testify about is the part of the bill on the rights of people with disabilities. There is a series of legislative improvements, mainly of a verbal nature, which I will not read to you all. It is more verbal and corrigendum in a few delicate expressions for reasons of text accuracy. Therefore, we will be tabling them and if there are any questions, I can come back today or tomorrow. I would like to say two things about this part of the bill, because, in my opinion, it is a part which has not been raised by the debate. I shall begin with a general remark. The draft law that is being discussed today is important because it contains provisions which are crucial to the working environment in favour of workers, in an environment of deregulation of workers' rights and wage earners, but also extremely useful if we want to begin to reverse the course of things, which is true that it lasts for many years, but also in order to give a signal to the working environment that there can be growth and social cohesion without the reduction of working and wage-earning rights. I'm now entering the object. The draft legislation currently under discussion also has a historical dimension. I am referring to the provisions concerning disability rights under the UN International Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, a convention that the Greek State ratified in 2012, but which has not yet incorporated into the Greek, legal and administrative framework. This law, therefore, in its respective place, incorporates one of the permanent demands of the disabled movement, not only in Greece, but throughout the world, fully reconstructs the ideological and philosophical model of public disability policies by passing the medical model into the social model. The medical model considered and considered disability as a personal tragedy, an illness or anomaly to be cured. It influences the individual exclusively in organic or functional minorities. It is ignored or at best underestimated the role of the social environment and social beliefs. The social model, on the contrary, considers the disability effect of the way people think about it, of the social importance that they attach to it. Damage is a natural, biological diversification, in the context of human activities, of human nature. In other words, it is another form of regularity. This social model of approach to disability was historically influenced by three major social movements before being educated in the modern disabled movement. The anti-racist movement, the feminist movement and the movement of individual and civil rights. The anti-racist movement incorporated the idea that discrimination against a social group should not be allowed on the basis of an individual feature and that the problem of exclusion from school, work, natural and technological environments is a political problem and not an individual. From the feminist movement he incorporated the idea that the staff are political and the importance of personal experience as a prerequisite for understanding a general situation, in the case of disability. From the movements of individual rights he incorporated the idea that disability rights do not arise from their specific needs and limitations, but from their status as citizens of a society. The disability world, for example, does not need an individual way of moving to specific parts of the city, but access to all parts of the city and countryside in all means of transport in all possible ways. The dimension of disability, therefore, emerges as an equal factor in the formulation of all public and state policies, from education and work to the functioning of public administration and from access to the natural environment to the linguistic and communication rights that people have to enjoy with disabilities. For this reason, in this bill, among other things, the Greek sign language is recognised as equivalent to the Greek language of the deaf Greek citizens, the Greek writing Braille is recognized as a way of writing the blind Greek citizens and the obligation to integrate the disability dimension into the official statistics produced by the country is institutionalized so that the policies organized and applied are founded on real needs. Each idea needs its materiality to be applied and to start having tangible results. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I'll be there in two minutes, Madam President. For the first time in the government and administrative mechanism the coordinating point of harmonisation and supervision of all public policies and legislation with the dimension of disability rights is established and the General Secretariat for Transparency and Human Rights is responsible for monitoring the implementation of the Convention, both at central and local level. Finally, the Independent Mechanism for the Monitoring of Policies for Disability and their implementation by the Citizens' Counsel and ESDP is being set up. Over the last two years, the government has practically shown its willingness to proceed with a radical revision of the model for disability policies. We gave the possibility with Law 4440/2016 for disabled people 15% to be recruited through the ADP in public sector competitions. The administration's obligation was to provide all the material conditions, interpretations, escorts and ergonomic arrangements so that people with disabilities can carry out their duties uninterruptedly. A number of anachronistic regulations of so-called institutional racism have been invalidated by law. Institutional racism includes practices, procedures, regulatory framework of institutions, which have a disproportionately negative impact on the access of minorities and on the quality of goods, services and opportunities. With today's bill, in the area of disability, a first large cycle of interventions at institutional and administrative level is being completed in relation to these issues. There was a great process of consultation with the social disability organizations, with the success of the ESDC, but also with too many individual citizens involved in the case of defending the rights of disability. We have created a new vital human rights area and we hope that we are equiping the disabled movement with an important weapon in the fight that is taking place for more rights and more social democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u266	Minister, testify to the legal improvements, so they can be distributed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u267	I put it to the Minutes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u268	Mrs Fotou, you have the floor to announce the legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u269	In Article 59, the legislative improvement concerns the staff of the CIs throughout Greece, namely the Social Protection Centres, the thirteenths we have throughout Greece, as well as the National Deaf Foundation, as well as the Education and Rehabilitation Centre. It is therefore the staff that is subsidiary. In Article 79, legislative improvement relates to the TSE. I'm tabling them in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u270	Thank you, Minister. And now we're on the list. Next speaker is Mr. Dritsa from SYRIZA. Mr. Dritsa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u271	Has there been a change?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u272	Yes, with Mr. Cameroon.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u273	I would like to thank Mr Katameros for giving me his position, because anyway he had a coma and had to leave. Ladies and gentlemen, a few days before the House closes for the summer holidays in the two, three bills, which were not part of the commitments from the agreement with the lenders, the health bill and the bill on education, particularly in these two, the New Democracy appeared weakened in the Chamber, with a failure to participate. We all remember it. She had lost her waters because she had collapsed once again - it was not the first time - the entire building of her tactics to destroy the government. It had collapsed because the agreement had been closed, because we were entering a new period, because the government had new initiatives ahead. Summer holidays helped her regroup and come today, instead of nine, eight or seven MPs speaking in the previous such important bills, with thirty-four MPs, to say what? Not for the bill, but to hit the government to degrade the government. Okay, easy, understandable, etc. However, what he has chosen is to decentralise the confidence of the Greek people, precisely because we are in the new phase that the crucial issue, after so many negative consequences in the life of the Greeks, and the consequences of the binding policies, the restrictions that we have had to follow, is to have the confidence that will be that driving force for both the government and for the parties and for political life, for the new period after the memoranda and after the extreme restrictive policies. This is what New Democracy is trying to hit today and it is clear, because it speaks of a bill that he refuses to talk about. In the committee, in his honour, the JRC, with its own views, which I disagree with - we disagree, but in any case - voted'residents'. All the other parties - New Democracy, PASOK, Potami, everybody - were reserved. Ignorance, weakness, embarrassment. They had reservations, he says, as to whether this bill is good or bad. And today they have not been posted on whether to vote or vote against. Why? Because it is, it says, communication. It's no coincidence that the JRC didn't say that. The JRC proposes a more silky interference with labour rights issues. And, of course, all of this is judged on the basis of a constant class conflict through correlations, which every time one is forced to measure them and not to ignore them. Because congression is not sufficient to provide solutions. Communication, says Opposition is the trick of the Ministry of Labour to testify to this bill and without consultation. The most overripe, minimum, elementary for guaranteeing labour rights were not discussed, he says. And Mr Koutsoukos came to tell us that we ignored the GFCM when GFCM in the debate at the hearing of bodies was represented with the secretary of its financial department on a matter of labour rights. Now you understand who makes communication policy and who doesn't. Ladies and gentlemen, it is indeed a bill with which the government takes some measures to combat undeclared, declared and unpaid work. It does not say it is a bill that abolishes undeclared, implied and unpaid work. This requires political initiatives, requires social struggles, requires social vigilance and not a labour movement that, yes, both in Greece and worldwide, is in defence right now - and everyone knows that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u274	Why?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u275	It is precisely because neoliberalism dominates and does not dominate by accident. It does not dominate because bad politicians were found who imposed neoliberalism simply. It dominates precisely why this correlation, which is a much more complex issue, has formed a field where things are not in favour of work. In order for work to be done at all times, it is necessary to make use of it. That's what this bill does. If the New Democracy wants to discuss that in the development that works both in investment and in profits, and in everything we will put as a parameter, both in Greece and in Europe, safe, stable and well-paid employment relationships, it dares to say so. Let the notion of profits, in the sense of growth, in the concept of investment, put to the debate in Parliament, in the public space, in the International Exhibition of Thessaloniki, the safe and stable and sufficiently paid working relationships, realistically, in the circumstances that exist today. To understand what everyone is, with whose side it is and what the prospect and expectation is in the struggle it gives. And that is what this government is doing with this bill and with many others that it will bring in the future, with political initiatives, to encourage this defensive attitude of society so that it does not go away, but to leave open fields with a sufficient step - step by step and with any cracks there can be to form other correlations. Some people think it's a treachery government. Well, it's not a betrayal government. It is a government that has undertaken to be present in the contradictions of a phase of Greek and European society, very difficult for workers and people. To this end, every small battle can only be a small one in a more comprehensive battle that will not, at least, cease on a daily basis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u276	The speaker of SYRIZA, Mr Papaliou, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u277	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the current bill is not purely technical and fragmentary, as it seems at first sight and opposition is claiming. Its content is dominated by the protective spirit of Labour Law, which is also its dominant dimension, since in the function of the employer-working relationship, the worker is the weak side that needs protection. Labour law is class-specific, of course, in the context of the existing system and the present power correlations. It was created to protect the weak side. But when this protectionist dimension ceases to exist, then there is no Labour Law. This has happened to a great extent since the country was placed in the memorials. The labour market has been reformed and ultimately useful, protectionist for workers has been abolished. Moreover, the launching of unemployment at unthinkable levels alone has led to the demolition of labour law. And that's what happened to the governments of New Democracy and PASOK, so we don't forget. The Government is attempting with this bill to alleviate injustices and elements which have made the labour market a jungle. Not all injustices are removed. It attempts by means of institutional intervention, the gradual restoration, the repetition of the protectionist dimension of labour law and the implementation of rules which exist, but do not apply in practice because of the imposition of the law of the strong and the lack of effective mechanisms for control, compliance and sanctions for the offenders. Institutional tools that encourage compliance with the existing rules shall be strengthened by shielding them. Thus, the main priority of this draft law is the reintroduction or establishment of arrangements which restore the dominant spirit of labour law, namely its protection and the gradual lifting of the injustices and malfunctions recorded in practice or which, after the completion of the second assessment, were the time to settle and, on the other hand, to combat infringement in the labour market. In this low-flight bill, as the PASOK rapporteur mentioned, arrangements are included to facilitate workers and pensioners. For example: the suspension of the pension payment in cases of the beneficiary's criminal convictions is abolished, unless the pensioner serves a limitation on the freedom of a year longer, for a offence directed against the insurer. An invalidity pension is extended for as long as the crisis in the CEDEFOP is pending. In the case of disabled persons suffering from mental illness, it is foreseen that the taking-up of work does not result in a reduction in pensions or other benefits when their work is appropriate for the purposes of treatment and social reintegration. The possibility of buying up fictitious years from farmers is being provided. It's important intervention. The obligation on engineers and lawyers to pay insurance contributions is abolished only because of their registration in the TEI and in legal associations respectively. Finally, by adopting a general framework of arrangements under the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, it is intended to remove obstacles which make it difficult to participate fully and equally in the social, economic and political life of the place. Invalidity is now treated not as a personal illness but as having a social dimension. In addition, the current draft law strengthens the control mechanisms, restores the implementation and strengthens the existing institutional framework in order to protect workers from undeclared, implied and uninsured work, phenomena that not only violate basic rights, but also constitute a retardant and distorting factor in the economy distort healthy competition between businesses and affect public revenue and the insurance system in the country, undermining its ability to respond to its social mission. It strengthens the Labour Inspectorate with human resources and tools, as well as upgrading its operational capacity. It is well known that, with the recently adopted regulation, on a proposal from the JRC, the employer's non-payment of wages is regarded as a unilaterally harmful change in working conditions and therefore the worker is entitled to regard it as a termination of the contract of employment and to claim dismissal compensation. This brings to an end a regime of lawlessness and clandestineness of many workers who are 'two-handed', since the employer, to whom they are working, does not pay their salaries. In other words, they remain unpaid and cannot be detached without losing the redundancy allowance and without being able to transfer to the unemployment scheme and receive the unemployment benefit, despite the fact that they are unemployed, since they are not paid a wage. Specific preventive measures shall be taken to protect the safety and health of workers and penalties shall be provided for employers who infringe the provisions of labour law with a temporary and definitive closure of the undertaking. Enforcement of labour legislation by enterprises is conditional on access to programmes and public resources by substantially improving existing legislation. Access to programmes and public resources shall be excluded from undertakings which have been subject to two or three cases of infringements of labour law within two years of the entry into force of this Regulation. This excludes participation in programmes and public resources by undertakings that use the circumvention of labour legislation as a competitive advantage. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. This infringement distorts and distorts healthy competition between companies. Similarly, their exclusion from participation in programmes and funding is an extremely serious incentive to comply with labour legislation. The employer shall be obliged to register electronically in the ERGAN system legal overtime before starting it, the Daily Carriage of Personnel in Construction and Technical Works shall be abolished and the electronic announcement of the voluntary departure of a worker and of the termination or termination of the contract shall be established no later than two working days after the date of departure of the employee or termination of the contract. It also provides for the extension of working rights, in particular the protection of maternity, in order to guarantee the rights of women involved in the procedure of parental leave. Finally, it is necessary to allow workers to acquire in a short time an immediate enforceable title, after a rapid and effective settlement of disputes concerning cancellation, late payment and late payment, by introducing a short, explicit deadline for the award of such disputes and, in addition, by issuing a payment order for claims arising from salary claims, by strengthening the rights of workers concerned by the non-payment of accruals. I wonder, ladies and gentlemen, is this all a communication, as many colleagues in the New Democracy and PASOK have said? Is this an empty shirt? Is it possible to remove injustices and combat infringement in this way?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u278	Mr. Papaliou, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u279	I shall conclude, Madam President. The thread linking all these rules to all three parts of which this bill consists, namely insurance provisions, labour regulations and disability capital, is to protect the vast majority of those who work, and those who are unemployed, and those who are helpless, and those who receive a pension. Work protection is a key element in the model of development adopted and promoted by the Government. It makes it clear that a basic condition for socially just productive reconstruction is the creation of healthy employment relationships and the creation of jobs with decent wages and full employment and insurance rights. That is why we are not all the same, gentlemen of the Opposition, because you, with your neoliberal policy, are insisting on their complete deregulation. We will continue to promote this policy and policy in a social context. Of course, its results are not going to come from one day to the next. They will be gradually but stable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u280	I would ask you all to respect the time, because there are seventy-six speakers and tomorrow we will not go after noon. Keep it in mind. Mrs Arabatzi, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor for seven minutes. At some point, the time will be reduced.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u281	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the House begins its legislative work with a bill of deception, which has one single aim: to use Mr Tsipras as a wrapper, to hide that the basket with which he is going is unfortunately empty. With express procedures, therefore, you are bringing forth provisions that the Prime Minister urgently needs to create his so-called philosophical and enterprising staff, against the real person of your government against workers and pensioners, the real person of your Government who has brought collective redundancies, the reduction of wages and the reduction of pensions from 1-1-2019, with your infamous fourth memorandum. So, apart from the communication tricks, the question is whether the Minister for Labour and the Prime Minister are of course responding, whether here in the House or from the stage of the International Report, to the enormous problems and wounds that your policies have opened up in the labour and insurance sectors. For the first time, and in the government of SYRIZA, the official information from "ERGANI" is flawed. Part-time has exceeded full-time and is 54%, for the first time on SYRIZA - ANEL we are talking about a new generation of retired people of EUR 185 and for the first time on SYRIZA - ANLE the generation of EUR 360 is created by the party that was electionly promised a wage of EUR 751. Perhaps, in the light of Mr Alexiadis' practice, you can tell us that these promises are'swine grapes' or that you insist on putting Madam Minister in committee, that we have an increase in wages and a reduction in unemployment. But the reality is different and it is grim, ladies and gentlemen of the government. And after you caused all this, afterward, Mr. Tsipras discovers the investments, the private economy, innovation and suddenly roaming around businesses that in the past, with your works and your days, undermined and threatened. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] And because I am not silenced, ladies and gentlemen - and with great negligence you have discovered the Juncker package, so tell us how, ladies and gentlemen of the government, the investments and jobs will come, when, due to the abundance of EUR 4,7 billion of Community funds and EUR 6 billion, when, unfortunately, the embryonic absorptions of the NSRP 2014-2020 are known, when, unfortunately, the zero-zero absorptions of the Rural Development Programme amounting to EUR 4,7 billion and EUR 6 billion with national participation are known? Because of your management failure this money is unfortunately in drawers. We are the last European Union country that has been two and a half years since the implementation of the new programming period has discovered the financial tools of the Yunker package for the agri-food sector. What are these financial instruments? It is accessed to the loan for producers of investors with a guarantee of the money of the Rural Development Programme. We are the last country to sign the ex ante assessment with the European Investment Bank, when Romania, Estonia, Latvia, Bulgaria have already made money for their producers. In the same way, of course, analgesia which you treat workers you are treating retired people. And I come now - and I am glad that Mr Petropoulos is present - on the painful issue of the thousands of members of the former OGA who are born in 1950, who are waiting cartoonly in the black darkness when they will finally get their pension from the newly established and pharaonic ECA. It is an issue that the Minister has not even bothered to talk about when I asked her here from this Step of the House to answer what is going to happen with the pensions of these farmers. It is a matter which you are silent about, when no one - I repeat, no pension from 1-1 2015 to more than fourteen thousand beneficiaries has been paid. Insurance Members, ladies and gentlemen, who, under the former status of the old OGA, the autonomous, should, as of 1 July, enjoy full retirement, suffer an unprecedented impunity from your Government. Initially you ordered payment of pensions from 1 January 2017, according to the well-advertised Katorugalou law. In fact, you, Minister, from this step of the House - and I put it in the Minutes - on 20 March 2017, at a timely question from a colleague, you said that these pensioners will now be retired on the day of the sixty-seven years, that is, on 1 January 2017. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Fotini Arabatzis, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In the meantime, of course, Mr Minister, it has become this laughing matter: at the same time that they were beneficiaries of a pension, you are sending them notices to pay insurance contributions. In other words, it's not enough that you didn't pay their pensions, you asked them for insurance contributions. Six months later, seeing that the beans don't come out, you undo with the Katorugalou law and you went out and said without shame that the new payment date is July 1st, and you even said that you were returning them the insurance contributions you have paralyzedly taken them. I'm tabling this in the Minutes and that. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Fotini Arabatzis, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Of course, the sufferings and coldness of these pensioners are not perfect, as with a new press release, Ephka is now announcing for the first time in the time part-time payment of pensions. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will take half a year, Madam President, from the one Mr SYRIZA's colleague. The decision is yours. It also announces that the first thousand lucky will be paid in August and the remaining thirteen thousand by the end of the year. Of course August, Minister, has it gone unreserved and I ask you: has any of the pensioners been paid? Tell us one! Please tell us, please, from this Stepma, because we are calling you through parliamentary control on several occasions and, unfortunately, we are not getting an answer, when these people will be paid. The four thousand you have announced in September will be retired? When will their insurance contributions be repaid? And what pension will these people get? That is why I wonder whether he has an answer for the Minister to the Thessaloniki International Exhibition. And speaking of the return of the wrongly paid contributions, ladies and gentlemen of the government, like those you took from those born in 1950, I cannot comment on Article 16 of your bill, which certainly brings a procedure which is more unfavourable to the recipients, because the remaining amount is now paid off unintentionally, while it was previously indicted and because of the fact that public debts are not included in the set-aside procedure. After all this, it really seems to me that you have the nerve, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, to get up here in Step and say that farmers are benefiting because they will be able to buy for themselves the years with low price. For the first time, you are not entitled to speak about fictitious years, because we are the government that in September 2014 recognised for the first time fictitious years of retirement for the rural world. What are you talking about? You tell us that especially for farmers you are lowering the basis for calculation, namely from EUR 586 to EUR 410. Yes, sir! I want you to tell me who you are mocking because, after you increased the retirement rate from 7% on our day to 20% for pensions, for the purchase of fictitious things, you are - supposedly - a discount on the basis, but at a rate of 7% to 20%. Mercy, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA and ANEL! Whatever you've grabbed them many times, you're spinning them with crumbs and mocking. Ladies and gentlemen, before I come down from the Step - and I thank you for your tolerance, Madam President - I want a very clear answer from the Minister of Labour, but also from Mr Tsakalotos, who spoke a little while ago in this House: what are the objections that the institutions have, as the Minister of Finance said, to avoid reliving these cravings with whom you played the National Representation and, of course, the whole of the citizens, bringing drafts that you are voting for and then digging them out to use for humiliations and blooms? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u282	The floor is for the Member of the JRC, Mr. Kanelli.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u283	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, between communication and substance we are in danger of getting lost. I should like my colleague, Mr Dritsa, to be forgiven, but I would like to make a mistake and to be deleted from the Minutes, not the phrase, but the word 'aminism' in relation to the labour movement. I have the impression that on the eve of the moves in Thessaloniki to 'anyoneism' there is no - so you said - the labour movement, not even defence. He's groaning, trembling his teeth, and believe me, he'll be present. No one can speak here today with this bill. This bill is hemorrhaging, so we said "residents" and he told us he would remember us when we said "courts" at first, and tomorrow morning you might tell us why we would vote for some things that might be well and "group" for the workers. Central policy is hemorrhagic. There is no way that employment, four hours, two quarters, fourteen, fifteen, sixteen forms of flexible work, which are so flexible that all the tires of any communication package have been broken. We are talking about this as a protection for work. What protection of work? You see that today workers are counted after the four major principles - pillars of Maastricht. There is nothing to do with work. Are you serious? It's just a cost. Every measure you take is to calm down and increase their profits by big companies, large capital, large multinationals, large investors or lenders. It cannot be presented as a revolution. You say and want to integrate our legislation into the concept that disability is a social issue, Minister. Of course! You want to see it like that? Let's see. 95% of the disabled who are able to work are unemployed. What social approach are you talking about? You shall redefined the rate of invalidity. Based on the resetting of the disability rate, it will be more, it will increase the rate. It is very nice to say some things, because they lead to a way in which you can tell me that it is revolutionary and you are defending the job, when the position of the privileged creditor has been accepted by you too every time a measure comes for the workers and you suddenly go out and scream, having voted for the third memorandum and the second and the first and all three together ahead of the fourth. Gentlemen of the New Democracy, will you come and discuss the substance of the matter today, when you have all agreed that banks should lead 65% in the enforcement and bankruptcy of workers and by privileged workers to be back? Colleagues at the agencies, anywhere in the large companies, are currently unemployed or are selling a discount package to their next purchaser, having lost all wages and all the wages, any form of compensation, or going out on the streets and leaving the streets. Do you sit down and boast that you suddenly put the possibility of buying fictitious time for farmers? At the same time we come and tell you by amendment that you should recognise as a pension the time of unemployment and say 'no'. But why would you say 'no'? Because that is where the state and the employer have to pay, while the employee who buys the fictitious time will pay the other one. In this contradiction, who stops the bleeding and in what way? Suffocation? That's coming, he's got five things here, three things there, something's trying to catch up. However, do not present it as a protection of work. Within the European Union there is no concept of 'working' and the concept of'security', after the'safety', inventions of infinitely fine words to cover a deeply anti-government policy which has been implemented by the European Constitution, has not succeeded and now goes through individual legislation in all countries. There's no point in working. No one can protect the job. The concept of work does not need to be protected of any kind, not to say another serious word that has been heard in Parliament called 'pimps'. The case of work is a right and a defence of the workers themselves and concerns the way in which it is implemented. Two months now that we are talking here about existing bills, which have been passed and voted out of the JRC, we have sixteen dead workers, seven of whom in cleanliness. In cleanliness are two and a half thousand people contracted who cannot be paid and become legal acrobatics so that they can be paid. Now think about the one who was picking up the trash and he's a contractor. He's backed up, he's run over, and he's dead. When will he retire? Who - if you want a husband or a woman - will get a widow's pension? Nobody. She's under fifty years old. Unless you think he's entitled to a pension and he'll wait three, four, five years, as if he's over fifty. And who's gonna do this job? The Prime Minister went to the companies. They looked pretty good to him in these working conditions. How many are there? One, two, three? Every day, if you go out, you'll see the unpaid workers. Which companies? Whose people? They're unpaid. These unpaid now how will they be covered? You're bringing something for overtime. What overtime? Are we kidding? Does the employer have the right to use me as an employee for sixteen hours today, three tomorrow, zero tomorrow, forty-eight days? He won't pay me overtime. Is that an idiot? Why would he pay me? What are you going to adjust to overtime? What overtime are you talking about? To get overtime, you have to have stable hours. Is it silky to have regular hours? Let's go back to Chicago? Is it silky? Is it maximistic to have collective labour contracts and is it modest and realistic to have sectoral, which are not exactly sectoral, but are they corporate or individual? Where's the pillow? Do we now call these self-evident, already existing, blood-paid, nowadays referred to as "minimism"? Since when? They're paid in blood. Is it maximistic to ask back what you have paid in blood and have been considered working conquests in the last hundred years of the labour, the feminist and social movement? Do you want to tell me today in the House that Mr. Kourublis has demanded that everything be printed in ‘Braille’ and go in for the blind? Do you want to tell me that you can take steps to force universities to take the blind or the salts or any person with disabilities and to make them compulsory and so? Are the kids taking to school comfortably when they have motor problems? Do they have anyone to accompany them? Listen: In this state, if you don't pay, you don't live. I do not know whether there is a need for 'business plan' or 'feasibility study' in this state. After all, when he owes this state everything, even for his national sovereignty, he needs a "feasibility study" that also says a "business plan" to see it on the basis of where interests go. I have a last name complaint here. I'll give it to you. I denounce it. We are talking about a woman under seventy years of age, with Alzheimer's, who does not recognize her children and who is still alive, lying and receiving a pension of five hundred euros. Her son's going to get the other escort allowance. You know exactly what I mean. Auxiliary allowance is half of the pension. If you have more than 80% disability - which you want to take steps for all these things - you can neither move, nor serve, nor anything, nothing of what happens and have a child who calls it at the hospital to help his mother dress, stripe, do X-ray. They tell him that his application for acceptance will only be activated if he pays 46,14 euros and cash insane. If he doesn't pay a paradox, he won't be activated. Where did you see it written? What was he supposed to do? Load her up, take her to the committee that goes after a month and a half?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u284	We've done away with this paradox. It's not true.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u285	Isn't that so? Today I have it, a document from the IKA of Glyfada with the name, signature and receipt of 46,14. From intention to apply, from legislating to practically...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u286	It's gone.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u287	Listen to me. If she's gone, go hunt after the people who pay for it. I won't have a dialogue with you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u288	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u289	I'm presenting it for the Minutes. It's last name. The man has no problem. I have his permission to testify. [[At this point, Member Liana Kanelles submits for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] And not just that. He went to pay and said, "I don't have cash." The answer was: 'There is no POS in IKA'. There's no POS in IKA. It should have cash for the employee, who pays taxes, and it is not his fault for his mother's Alzheimer's Alzheimer's, who happens to be a son and has a mother, because the woman could have Alzheimer's and have no son. What are we going to do with all this? Since work is cost to the businessman, your numbers will only come out for businessmen. Workers will be transported like furniture, invoiced as in bankruptcy chairs and tables, sold out obediently, and there will be the idea that someone is protecting them, because they may buy fictitious life time. Because stable work is not something that one gives or ensures because he does it for his mother's soul, this bill that you bring, whatever it is, does the following two dramatic things: It certifies the policy that Mr McCrone will bring without memorials in France, exactly the same things, and we will come here and certify that this is the new Europe to which we are going and without memorials...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u290	Mrs. Kanelli, please, finish it up. You've exceeded time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u291	I shall conclude, Madam President. The second is that it lays a basis for looking diligently and good at the beautiful or occasional for smaller cases of people, I mean, in all the unemployed or suffering, the unpaid people, the third memorial which cementes the previous two. And the third cap enters so that there is good psychology to welcome the fourth.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u292	In the series is Mr Yakoumatos, but the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u293	Madam President, I will speak later.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u294	I have to say it because Mr. Yakoumatos has a disrepute to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u295	After nine hours, Madam President, thank you for giving me the opportunity to speak in the House of Lords, because the people are talking after nine hours. Madam President, it's not your fault. It's the Rules of Procedure. You keep him properly, but the Rules of Procedure must be changed. I've said it many times. My tongue has been hairy for twenty-five years. Madam President, I would like you to convey my wishes to the President of this House for very rapid recovery, although I believe, and I know that with God's help, he is going very well and will soon be with us. The second, Madam President, I would like to say that the whole House, all the Members of Parliament, must apologise to the hundreds of thousands of unemployed who have brought them to despair and despair, who have been expelled from the country. Because there's a lot of spit on this party and because I can't stand it, I want to say that I'm proud to be a New Democracy and I'm going to explain why. Another philosophical party like us and another populist party, as you are. Why am I saying that? I had the honour and luck from 2004 to 2007 by Kostas Karamanlis to take responsibility for the employment sector. I received unemployment at 11.7% and at the end of 2007 delivered it with 7.4%, when the average in the Eurozone was 5%. Today you are receiving for 21.7%, when the average in the Eurozone is 9%. Really, can we see the reality? Is it plastic to reduce you or really? Glory! And why am I saying that? Really, at 21.7% have you calculated the three hundred thousand youths we exiled abroad to get a job? You don't count on them. Secondly, do you estimate that in 2016 the productive population has decreased by eighty thousand? Oh, no. And when do you say 21.6%? Now that we have a tourist season and we have the work, which later in October will be weeping in November. The question is this: this is quantitative unemployment. We're going to the quality elements of unemployment, because we're only dealing with numbers. Is the labour market real, or are we talking about flexible forms of employment of a stubborn kind? This is qualitative unemployment, beyond quantitative. In 2017, 52.14% elastic recruitments, 47% full-time jobs, 54% part-time jobs. And what kind of employment are we talking about? The 360 euros? When you built a career, so you entered the House from 3%, with 751 euros salary, with a thirteenth and fourteenth pensions. That was your career. Lie, lie, lie! You built a government on a lie. Well, what about New Democracy? What's he suggesting? I'll tell you. And because you don't understand very well about investments, I'll do it to you. There in Metropolitan, there was a ruin, the Ministry of Education never again. Fortunately for the fate of the Greek people, this belonged to the Church. He gave it up and granted it and became a five-star hotel. There are four hundred workers working there today. Today we have five hundred thousand a month in the FBI. Here is an example of what the New Democracy proposes. Why am I saying that? You have, Mr. Social Security Minister, over thirty hotels, such as Esperia and others closed down. Why don't you use them? Why don't you do the same with the buildings in Piraeus? The old IKA is thirty years closed and ready to be demolished. I will not say about the Greek that, with the start of the project, is ten thousand jobs and full growth of seventy thousand, I will not say about Afantos, I will not say about Kassiopi. Here's what the New Democracy proposes. It proposes reforms, privatisation and direct jobs. What does it mean to jobs? It means we import money, inputs to the FBI. Here's how the pension will be increased, how we're gonna pay pensions. Not in words. Of course, there is this little fairy tale and the firework that "I'm suing the employer to pay." Good, I'm going to sue the employer tomorrow morning, because I'm working at Mega. Let me see who's paying me, who's 12 months unpaid. Let me see how I can find Mr. Marinopoulos in Hawaii to get paid. Let me see how I'll see all these ribbons with the offshore companies, get them, with an anonymous company, etc. Fireworks. The law on public limited companies had to be changed, and then you talked about prosecuting the employer. Let's go talk about 'ERGAN'. That is right, with 10,500 fines, the undeclared one went from 40% to 13%. But now that it hurts your hand, it cuts your hand. "ERGAN" do you know that, Ministers, that every Wednesday from four to nine does not work? It's closed. So if I change the hours to a working man four to nine, what am I going to do? How am I supposed to get into "ERGAN"? Am I going to get a fine of 10,500 for uninsured work? Secondly, how do I declare the change in working hours? I'm in front of a hotel. The night shift is 11 o'clock. Ten and a half, she's catching her abdomen, and she's not going. You'll change it. Where am I going to declare it? I have to find the accountant, the accountant has to enter the "ERGANI", which the owner cannot do to change the working hours. Infringement! I know hotels that paid money. What am I asking for - and you need to see this - Minister? With a fax, a fax or an e-mail to declare to the AED the Saturday night or Sunday night change that the accountant is away and within 24 hours I have entered the "ERGANI" system. Don't ruin me by telling me at that time, directly, to get into "ERGANI". That's what we're asking. It is not bad because, beyond the procedure, there is a record of the tax technicians that tells you 'weak, it is bureaucratic'. He can't go on like this. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And because I don't have much time and I've already waited seven hours to talk to you, I want to tell you something else. The New Democracy is not bound by words, it is bound by actions. I explained to you how we received unemployment. I delivered her 7.3%. In 2009 George Andreas Papandreou took her to 27.9%. Antonis Samaras and the New Democracy Government from 27.9% took her to 25%. In two years, difficult years, when one leg of Greece was in drachma and with adverse conditions and with all of you outside the House shouting "hot the same, the House", we managed to take this to 25%. I wish you too could reduce unemployment. In unemployment, ladies and gentlemen, this is not a financial issue. It's psychological, it's psychiatric, because the other person who doesn't have a job and can't find it, it's not just that he doesn't have money, but lives in despair, actually lives in a world that deprives him of the ability to live. That is why we cannot make hammers of parties. We really must all stand above cases and we must apologize for a great deal.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u296	Now I'm going to give the floor to the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u297	Let our MPs speak first and then I will.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u298	Then they'll want the others.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u299	Madam President, he cannot ask to speak whenever he wants.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u300	Please. Today some of the parliamentary representatives must speak, because there is no time for tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u301	Excuse me. Before you came, we said I would speak after five Members. When I made sense to you, I meant after five MPs.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u302	Okay. Mr Karaoglu has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u303	Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, ladies and gentlemen of the ANELs, there are no reasons why we have been ended both in the House and in society - after about three years of government, you have grown old. We've learned you. We feel that we are once again in the same spectators work. What are you doing one more time? Always just before Christmas, Easter, summer or just before a big event, such as the opening of the International Exhibition, you are trying to set up a communication show. With bills inside and some positive provisions you are trying to create an illusion in the society of a success story, what you are trying to do now, that is, in view of the inauguration of the 82nd International Exhibition of Thessaloniki. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is a bill that was well described by many colleagues who spoke from the New Democracy party, passe - partout. It is a bill on every science, a bill that is a slogan of various provisions, stones, bricks and horns irrevocably thrown away. In short, it is a bill that does not heal the wounds opened by Mr Katrugalos' insurance and most importantly it does not answer the main question: How will quality full-time jobs be created with decent wages? Very simply, he sees the tree and loses the forest. On the substance, the political leadership of the Ministry of Labour engraves the so-called charitable person of the Government in view of the arrival of the Prime Minister in Thessaloniki for the opening of the exhibition, with the sole aim of filling Mr. Tsipras' announcement basket with empty arguments, which this year is completely empty. For example, Mrs Ahtsoglou celebrates the decline in statistical unemployment and talks about a government-success story, referring to two hundred and thirty thousand recruitments. However, it avoids the fact that 52% of these work under flexible working conditions and with poor pay. You have created, ladies and gentlemen, and this is a truth, the generation of 360 euros. It closes eyes to the worrying employment figures of the FBI, according to which five hundred and eighty-five thousand five hundred and eighty-two people work in part-time employment and are paid, as I said before, at around EUR 360 purely. As I see it, a challenge and also an insult to society, the government is proud to have reduced unemployment when the professor of the University Mr. Savvas Robolis notes: "In the observed decline in statistical unemployment, the migration of four hundred and fifty thousand Greeks abroad, as well as the reduction in 2016 by eighty thousand of the population of productive ages, contributes to the migration of four hundred and fifty thousand Greeks abroad." I am making this point because, on the occasion of the drafting of the bill, I was expecting Mrs Ahtsioglu - and it is not personal - to make a hypocritical self-critical, to apologise to pensioners for the two to three pensions that will be cut in 2019 and to workers for the loss of some two wages due to successive tax reductions, to explain on what grounds the left government for the first time has released collective redundancies, to answer why, for the last three years, she has not done anything to deal with the problem of undeclared work, to justify how, for the first time, flexible forms of employment are completely dominant on the labour market, to clarify to us about the alleged surpluses of the EMRP, which, until July last year, absorbed EUR 410 million more than the state budget, namely EUR 5.6 billion, instead of EUR 5.19 billion. On the contrary, the Ministry of Labour, with a great deal of courage, is tabling a bill which, among other things, covers three reductions: two direct and one indirect. First direct reduction: it reduces the supplementary pensions issued until December 31, 2014. Second direct reduction: it reduces the pensions of officials, officers and soldiers of the army on land, air and seamen, firemen, police officers, port and university doctors, as personal differences in the salaries of these officials and those on special wages will not be counted as pensioners. The indirect reduction is the reduction in the wages of all civil servants, which increases from 4% to 4.5% the contribution of civil servants to the Equity Fund. Still, it gives no answer, instead freezes a hundred and twenty - nine thousand supplementary pensions from January 1, 2015, as yet - listen! - the relevant mathematical formula for issuing these pensions was not created. In short, by putting my own title in the bill under discussion, I would say that it is a bill that speaks of the "great robbery" of workers and pensioners. This, ladies and gentlemen, is not a social policy. It is political ostrichism and proof, ladies and gentlemen of the conflict, that you have zero contact with society. In particular, because the Minister has previously accused us of not specifically referring to the bill. With your vote, ladies and gentlemen, a wild jungle is formed in which the bad employer, who is conscious of the rights of workers, and all the other lawmakers who are tested by objective difficulties and who are transformed by the unpaid worker into a quasi-employed person. Be careful, the bill provides that once the worker finds a significant delay in his payroll, then he is entitled to receive the unemployment benefit by submitting to the OAU the relevant extrajudicial charge, i.e. to the detriment of the employer. Really, what is this remarkable delay? A week? A month? Six months? How exactly is it? Thus, the opportunity is automatically given to those who act in fraud, to transfer whatever financial problems to the backs of the OAED. I said before, and I repeat, that it is very important to determine what is the reasonable delay in paying wages and whether the objective difficulties, which lead to a company being late in paying wages and contributions, are taken into account. And, of course, what if the worker's complaint is rejected? The arrangement provides for the repayment of the amount to be paid by the OAED. If, however, the worker is still under unemployment, how can he return what he has already taken? In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking today about a purely communication bill. Unfortunately, your promises were words that in practice only bound those who heard them and not those who called them. This bill does not solve or mitigate the huge problems, but, on the contrary, it increases them. It does not intervene drastically, but it covers all structural problems under the carpet. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, it goes without saying that the New Democracy cannot plead for the creation of poor workers and poor insured persons in Greece. Because, ladies and gentlemen, it is simply not the Greece that we envision, it is not the Greece that suits us, it is not the Greece that we are planning for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u304	Mr Giannakis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u305	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today a draft law which has many vague provisions which are ineffective and minor, a bill designed to give some ideological breaths of party conflict, such as covering the absolute inconsistency of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, and to be used by the Prime Minister in the Thessaloniki International Exhibition. But whatever the Prime Minister in Thessaloniki says, no matter what he says, he will not change the climate of decency and outcry that exists for the government in society. They are self-determined by the fact that, in the last three years, every September in the International Exhibition of Thessaloniki, the Prime Minister unambiguously and repeatedly deceives the Greek people with constant lies. What should we want to do first? From the famous program of Thessaloniki in 2014, which was lost to unclaimed, in the parallel program of 2015, which never existed and only intended to close the eye to voters that it would not much longer implement the third memorandum that it had just signed. In 2016, the International Exhibition promised Greece's accession to the European Central Bank's quantification mechanism, the debt haircut, but also the irresponsible account for all entrepreneurs and businesses and the freezing of debts. This year, the new account is already being prepared: Promise to leave the memorials and supervision when it has already signed supervision for the next 50 years and has given private and public property to foreigners for a hundred years. It is certain that appointments will be promised from 2018, when he knows that he has committed himself to some thousands of redundancies, he will promise better days, open a financial canal, and who knows what other fairy tale he will invent. The reality, however, is here and constantly disproves him. So let the social sensitivity that you say so, because in two and a half years of government SYRIZA - ANLL, we have two uncompromising memorials that cost 14.5 billion new measures, continuous unfair and unfavourable pension cuts that the citizens feel in their minds every month, as a result of the Katrugalo monastery, which assured us that by the law the pensions will not only be reduced, but will increase already, two or three pensions that will be cut from 2019 - and you have voted for it - two wage cuts due to the reduction in the tax on the tax on two times even - this is the tax exemption that we said will be at 12,000 euros - and three hundred pensioners waiting for their pensions, EUR 360 euros, a new generation of pensioners of 185 euros, total abolition of the ECHR and pensions. You have already voted for the complete release of collective redundancies. Flexible forms of employment amounted to 52.14%, compared with only 47.86% of full-time employment. Thousands of lost jobs from the failure of the 35 billion-billion-dollar package, which was again promised by the International Report last year by the Prime Minister, with which, as the Minister of State said the day before, Mr Flavouraris, he could not deal with the financial staff due to a workload. More than a hundred and fifty thousand legacy denominations for 2017 only because of ENPIA. Thirteen thousand possible new enclosures in small and medium-sized enterprises in the next few months, according to the study published yesterday by the General Confederation of Professional Crafters of Greece. That, if it happens, means losing another twenty-three thousand jobs. Separate contributions that literally dismantle free professionals, scientists and farmers. The percentage of our young people seeking their luck abroad and leaving the country increased from 11% in 2015 to 33% in 2017. And most important of all this period is electronic auctions. Millions of Greeks do not sleep at night in fear of losing their home and even with a click. From the "no house in the hands of a banker" we arrived at "Each house in the hands of a banker". In fact, ladies and gentlemen, from all the wings of the House, can you imagine what is going on in the next few days and the next few months in Greece with electronic auctions? Can you handle it? With this bill, under the provisions on undeclared work, which is currently at 12% to 13%, where the Samara Government left it for over 40%, artificially and hidden, new pension reductions are also being introduced, as well as increases in insurance contributions. Everything I mentioned is signs that create optimism for social recovery? Are they decisions, laws and practices with social sensitivity? Don't they realize to the government that the knot has arrived for a long time in the comb? The citizens are now suspicious, perceived and very well distinguished by the communal terminology, the hollow promises, the attempts to deception made, only for the government to earn political time and to remain as long as it can in power. We live there in Epirus in the constellation of inauguration. Every month and a new opening. New party mobilisations, new proud statements, new promises, new demagogy. It inaugurates projects that were completed in the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, when 75% had already been completed by previous governments. Of course Ionian Road takes out western Greece and especially Epirus from isolation, but Preveza still receives only promises of its connection to the Ionian Road. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, Madam President. Preveza Preveza is the only one of the four prefectures of Epirus that remains in a road segregation, since neither Ambraia Road is progressing, as we were promised, nor does anything appear in the horizon regarding the link to Ionian Road that promised us again. Two and a half years we have been living with promises of development projects, road connections, for the proper operation of Parga, Canalaki, for the establishment of an EKAB station in Mesopotamos. Continuous promises and constant disapprovals. Unfortunately, for the citizens and the country, officially the permanent confessed lie was baptized by Prime Minister deception and attempted polarization, fanaticism and division are called a moral advantage. But the peoples do not live and go with lies and delusion. So when elections are held, you will get the answer you deserve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u306	Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy Mr Nikolaos Dendias has spoken for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u307	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the first piece of legislation in the parliamentary term. I therefore considered it appropriate at the beginning of the debate and taking advantage of it here just now of the head of negotiation with the lenders, the Minister of Finance, to ask for a reassurance on a key issue: if this piece of legislation, once it has been passed, will apply or after five, six days Parliament, with the full responsibility of the Government, will be led to the usual anomaly of the last few months and will come to an end to some of these provisions. I say this because there was - and I put it in the Minutes - a newspaper from the Athenian News Agency, which said that the government has not guaranteed the consent of the lenders to this legislation. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Dendias, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I was therefore expecting a clear answer from the Minister of Finance. Of course, the Minister has not gotten used to us in clear answers. I didn't receive either. He referred me to his speech. I'd heard his speech. In his speech he did not commit anything. I therefore believe that what he has not said is confirmed that we are at risk again by the usual ridicule: after five, six days, the government will come and, by depriving the sovereign Parliament of any pretext, bring about a change in this legislation. In any case, that is the situation. I'm writing it down. It is another step in the ladder of 'bad', which we have been going down these years. I now come to the positions of the Ministers because we have seen a parade of ministers today in the debate on this legislation. The appropriate Minister, who recommends, in her seven-minute position, addressed the Civilian Opposition, questioning our opposition tactics. The Minister said: 'Why don't you talk about the provisions and judge us about development and judge us for one thing and judge us for the other?' First of all, although we have decliningly formulated our position, our opposition tactics, we are allowed to tell you, Minister, that it is our prerogative. We do not intend to consult with you about how we will oppose you. We'll do it as we judge, when we judge and we want to. But the second reason why we are not in this legislation on all the provisions is that these provisions are insignificant and indifferent. I followed the dialogue between two other Ministers, Mr Tsakalotou and Mr Skourletis, a peculiar dialogue between consentors to whether this legislation and a series of other insignificant instruments of this government are serious or not serious steps towards socialism. If, in other words, these legislation is within the framework of the wider victory of the socialist forces or simply legislation improving the living conditions of the working class - take care of the working class, not all the Greeks - as if such divisions can now be made in this society, and socialism will be postponed for the future. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, this piece of legislation is as helpful as it can be as a piece of legislation which includes a reduction in pensions. If I am not deceived, that is, in Article 17, as we read it. It is as serious as it may be on the basis of Articles 40 and 50. Article 40 provides for a two-day period for notification of an extrajudicial declaration for voluntary withdrawal. And one thinks that these things must be implemented by any court. Or Article 50, on the intelligence of the worker's payment order, as if the order for payment, even if issued, does not lead to an opposition and, therefore, to a main proceedings on the dispute and, hence, to more costs for the worker, which, of course, the Government is attempting to deceive with that quality. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the seventeenth legislation on post-Katrugalou work provisions. Our rapporteur, Mr Brutsi, has said so. Am I wrong and it's the eighteenth, Mr. Brutsi?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u308	Seventeenth!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u309	Seventeenth! Seventeen instruments! Tell me which serious government could ever introduce seventeen legislation following a piece of legislation that appeared as revolutionary and with which, of course, barbarically cut all pensions, all remuneration. Here, ladies and gentlemen, things are at their base simply. How to create jobs, how to combat unemployment. That is the main question we have to answer. I ask you: is there a hundred and eighteen, if I am not cheating on articles, a provision to help deal with unemployment? Is there a provision which will lead to an increase in wages? Is there a provision which will lead to an increase in pensions? Let's know. Payment orders, extrajudicials, penalties, etc. are irrelevant in this country's economic situation, where the rule of the normal contract of employment and part-time work are no longer the rule. That's the situation. I ask: is there anything in this piece of legislation that will deal with it? May I tell you what this government has done and which leads the economy to a great deal of trouble? Why don't you tell me now about improvement when we have a theoretical, hopeful growth of 1.7%, budgeted today, when the original forecast was for 2.7%. Under these conditions of the world economy and after so many years of crisis, the turn-over of the economy is to be a growth of 1.7%, which in fact has only two-year horizons and will not continue, no one will dare and tell us that this is a triumph or a real improvement in the conditions. So let's go see what you've done, how you've criminalised the body of this economy and thus society. You increased the value added tax and then increased the value added tax again. You've increased the rates of corporate income tax. You've reduced the tax. You reduced it and reduced it again. You have increased and permanentised the rates of the solidarity levy. You have increased the rates of taxes on premiums. You've increased the rent tax. You abolished the one-off payment of income tax. You abolished the payment waivers to HISPIA. You've increased the income tax advance. You taxed dividends. You have abolished the reimbursement of excise duties, even in oil for agricultural use. You increased the income tax on farmers. You have increased the cost, through the tax, of raw materials in agricultural production. You've increased the insurance contributions. You've raised HISBIA on the plots. You've raised the ENPIA in the parcels. You increased the ENVY in business. You've increased HISFIA in the apartments. You increased the tax on investment companies. You increased the cigarette tax. You increased the excise duty on beer.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u310	The addition to it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u311	You have completely abolished the special arrangements for reduced VAT on the islands and, in addition, the special arrangements for excise duty on alcoholic beverages in the Dodecanese. You imposed a tax on coffee. You increased the tax on gasoline. You increased the taxes on heating oil. You increased the tax on diesel traffic. You have imposed a special fixed telephony account fee and the pay-TV bills. Not even soccer to watch! Beyond the end of residence of misappropriated people, you have charged a residence tax on hotels. You've charged accommodation tax on the rented rooms. You taxed electronic cigarettes. You increased the registration fee in cars. You increased the registration fee in the trucks. And maybe I've got two or three out of my mind. So explain to me how it is possible for any country's economy on the planet, not a European country, to develop seriously, in the long term, and to increase employment through such a tax storm. How is that possible? Give us an example in the global economy that has led to sustainable growth and has led to an increase in employment. Is there any chance of that? Is he being taught anywhere? An excellent book was published for Samuelson in the last few days. They'll feed his bones, feed Kanes' bones, even feed the bones of Marx and Engels with what you're doing. It's amazing what you're doing. They do not belong to any circle, any theoretical approach, any ideological space on the planet. You are simply swaying against the body of the Greek economy and the Greek society for two and a half years. That's what you're doing. And you come with laws of undignified lack of seriousness, which you are bringing to the national delegation, and you think that by dreadful provisions on the notification of extrajudicials and payment orders, there is no chance that the matter will return to the Greek economy. The Prime Minister will show up in Thessaloniki. And with these phenomena that you put on the channels with various non papers - we were looking to find out what it is with the payment orders, because you didn't understand what a lawyer is about - you think you're going to do something and you're going to have something to say to the workers. Are you serious? You're serious, and you expect someone to hear you? Do our Members expect to comment on these provisions? Do they have any reason to do so? Do they have any reason to fall to the level of the government's initiative, the legislative initiative of this government in this mess?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u312	Did you hear the workers, Mr. Teddy?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u313	You don't like it? You'll hear them! You are a government of this level and you will also hear them from the government and you who support it with your votes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u314	You didn't just listen to the agencies!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u315	Let me tell you. You like it, you don't like it, you'll hear it. You're now 15% and you're constantly retreating. If you think you'll be able to stop your falling, you're making a big mistake. We now enter at the end of 2017, comes in 2018, comes the fourth memorandum and see how you get through it. In any case, ladies and gentlemen, I conclude because my time is running out. One thing can be done by this government and it refuses to do so: to maintain its seriousness - as it is left to it - to stop legislating in this way, which makes Parliament and the country more ridiculous and to return the mandate to the Greek society. And from there to see how we can escape the crisis. [[At this point, the President-in-Office takes over the Vice-President of Parliament, Ms. MARios GEORGIADIS.]] By the way - I am opening up parentheses - I challenge the Government to bring me a European country which has a similar arrangement with this regulation that it is proposing, for the 40-hour extrajudicial declaration on industrial relations. You should tell me a European country that has such an arrangement. Tell me - if you want - any country on the planet that has such an arrangement. If Venezuela has it, forgive me, I ignore it. Tell me a country. These things won't stand anywhere. They are government blocs ahead of the International Exhibition. The Prime Minister will probably fall into the trap of repeating them as conquests of the labour movement, but in nothing can you stop your constant and constant ridicule.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u316	Thank you, Mr. Dendia. The floor has been requested by Mr Petropoulos for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u317	Mr President, I will respond to the points raised on the progress of the debate, and I am reluctant to develop the rest tomorrow. The Single Institution for Social Security is a reality, ladies and gentlemen. It develops and will grow despite your predictions that it would not even start operating in January 2017. You will be disproved and as many negative forecasts as you make. And it will remain in the country as a deposit of a positive contribution from our Government to the development of social security, the strengthening of social rights, in order to improve the living conditions of our citizens, the pensioners and the better development of our economy. Everything that has been said to you has been answered. But you obviously all have the same text from New Democracy, which you reproduce in various versions. But you don't change your position. You are always negative, investing in a disastrous logic for the future of all our people's efforts. You wish, but it won't happen. And because you insist, while all has been explained, what - I am sure - are finding out to those who are following the debate is that they have not understood what you will do at the end. During the first debate in the committee I said that Mr Brutsi says good things, it seems to be voting for the law but he also holds an ass. Something's changed in the meantime. We will see tomorrow when the New Democracy stops. Because you have told us nothing about our legislative initiative to provide for people with mental illness not to have any reduction in the benefits of benefits or pensions, which they have when, for reasons of support for their reintegration, they have to be able to work. But you are also saying a few things that have already been answered by this Step. For example, I have heard one of the spokesmen of the New Democracy wing - not to say names - saying that for farmers, for the first time, we are not giving pensions in July of the year. I have explained - and I will also get you the numbers - that the farmers never took retirement together in July. They started taking her in July, arrived in December, every month they took a place, and sometimes they went through the next year, and some didn't get it. And there were several of them, unfortunately, because, according to your own legislation, the farmers who were judged not to have proven agricultural employment with income in the E3 did not give them a pension and you cut them off, so that thousands of farmers would be brought together without ever receiving a pension. With L.4387 we predicted standard insurance, and all these people will be retired. And it is a matter of looking at the next time and correcting these absurd consequences brought about by your own legislation that you have served all these years. Of course, I also noted what Mr Giakoumatos said in 2008 he delivered unemployment to 7% and something. Was it a nail for Mr. Brutsi - I don't know - who delivered unemployment to 30% and something? I imagine that Mr Giakoumatos was not meant to do this, but he forgot that you were then the government, which has brought this dramatic effect to work, to the economy and to the development of the country. But, ammonias you cannot be, because it is very close to time, it has not even been two and a half years since we took over the government. And we took it with a huge deficit in social security, a real cash deficit. And we now have a surplus effect in the management of the Single Social Security Agency. And to blur water, and to mislead the world, you say that from ACAGE we collected 350 million - I don't know how much you say, 356 million? - So we have a deficit. I have said this before, and I say it again: the surplus is real because this outflow from the ADEM's account to the ECA was planned and provided for in the budget as it had been voted on. So it's not a new emergency provision to cover deficits. It was within the amount that we took into consideration when we started the operation of the FBI. So we have a real surplus, we have no deficit. But you insist on saying the same thing. Why are you doing this? In order to cause disappointment to the Greek people, to consider that there is no hope, to feel that it has no meaning to be insured, to turn to the futile effort to have private insurance that will very much meet their needs, while you know that it is impossible for our fellow citizens to turn to private insurance, as public social security is the place that actually provides with a small contribution to health for him and the whole family and pensioning at the end forever. I would therefore ask you, for the sake of the country, for the benefit of the insured, of our people, not to lie. And don't lie because the lie is close to legs and in the eight months of the operation of EKKA, we will give an account of the critical issues that were the points of your attack on the effort made by the Greek people to prove all these lies, because we will prove it. You say that we will have additional reductions of up to 40%, 45%, 50%, I don't know where you're going to get it. Because now we are in government, and we can have access to evidence, we have the tools to control what it would be if you guys continued to be in government. The zero deficit clause on supplementary pensions led to a reduction in relation to 2014, where for an ancillary EUR 184, in 2017, it would end up at EUR 105, a reduction of 57.6%, and every year this reduction would increase, because the zero deficit clause has this effect. We stirred a course like this. I will not tell you what increases will occur in a number of subsidiary cases. They won't come up in all cases. We have put a sum of protection for main and subsidiary, but be sure there will be increases and it will be proven. You say there will be huge reductions in the main pensions. If a newspaper does not say that, which you are probably reproducing in coordination, it will be said by another body, who is constantly pulling out information, saying that the reductions in the main pensions will reach 35%, 40%, I lose the account, because you keep saying different numbers. Although we in the law say that there can be no reduction, which exceeds 18%, I inform you, Mr Treasury, because we now have the data from the first sample of new pensions with the new law, that we have an improvement positive to new pensions by 64.2%. And you will see this and it will come out of the first sample of new pensions, which to be clear, because I always want to be clear about the pensions of employees of IKA, the former IKA. He's talking about them. We haven't gotten into any other charges. I'm talking about this charge. New pensions 64.2% and we have a negative difference of 35.8%, of which 46% has a loss of between EUR 1 and EUR 49. This is the situation and I do not think that this situation allows you to talk about destruction in the social security system that we are improving, strengthening, strengthening, supporting, so that we can then make positive and improved contributions to the protection of all our fellow citizens who need protection, at least in terms of dignity. To finish here, because I cannot abuse the President's permit, by means of the provision introduced by Mrs Fotio on disability, by incorporating these provisions into the trunk of national legislation, we also have the tool in cooperation with the disabled organizations themselves, with the people who are in this situation, with the ESDC, to find solutions that are more specific to a number of problems, which I will be developing tomorrow, in response to relevant amendments to other Parliamentary wings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u318	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Micholoannakis, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u319	Thank you, Mr President. Now what was the reality, which in the end has a positive sign: we had an undeclared job in 2014 of about 19.17% and which in 2016 went to 13.58%, an undeclared work that recycled the focus, the clothing, the retail trade. We had a so-called work, which was harvested in the banking sector. We had a falsely declared self-employment. Each block behind him was hiding a hired job, a huge problem. We had a falsely declared partial, complete. We had a huge problem with not entering the wage bill. We have had a major problem with regard to the primary decisions on unemployment benefit. We had a huge problem with regard to the manuscript for overtime, which supposedly reaped. We had a huge problem with the technical and building projects that, before they were abolished - before the electronic declaration came to us - helped undeclared work. We had the voluntary withdrawal or non-obligation to sign the form which created problems and a steady rate which says that 50% in the labour inspection concerned unpaid workers. That was the picture, and that was the situation that prevailed. Today, therefore, the Ministry and the Government are coming and it is for the first time dealing with social security issues. It facilitates full and equal participation of disabled people in the country's social, economic and political life, as other colleagues have said, it strengthens the instrument of control and the respect of labour law, ends employers' arbitrariness and creates legal fortification of labour rights. How? It reduces the waiting time for employers and workers to judge. Is that a small thing? Huge. It gives the worker the right to trial with a civil action performance. That's great. The judiciary at 20,000 euros. That's great, too. Complaints to the contract and overriding of the unemployment benefit. The same is true of the overlapping of work. That's great, too. Is the point system in the offender - employer by excluding it from public money and the employer's obligation to state the overtime in advance in the ERGAN programme is not a fight against alleged unemployment? Free professionals who wish to do so can now pay higher contributions to a higher pension. Isn't that proportionate, equal? It's not fair, is it not democratic? Is the release of the insurance from status in the engineering and legal sectors a small thing? I, at least, know engineers and lawyers in Heraklion who pay huge contributions, and here the issue has blocked them at a rate of 2% to 3% in my prefecture, as far as lawyers and engineers are concerned. The interest-free reimbursement of the contributions when the insured person has paid higher than those provided for. What does that say? The unbundling of the issue of thousands of supplementary pensions by the EIB, with the introduction of a uniform calculation method for the years of insurance since 2015, what does it say? Even the withdrawal, which, when you exceed five years, the rate of reduction in the pension of civil servants not exceeding 30%, is not a safety net instead of protection or not? And get to Mrs. Fotou, that the official language of the Greek state now means the meaningful and official method of writing and reading the writing Braille. Clearly, and the reduction of disability pensions to people suffering from mental illness, it will disembodi thousands of disabled people, so that they can solve their problems which at least so far have been expected - as a doctor I say - when each CEPD will meet and have been unpaid for months. Ladies and gentlemen, we are successful in dealing with undeclared and unpaid work, strengthening control mechanisms, making changes to insurance contributions to the freelance professionals and giving a social person and a sign to disability pensions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u320	Thank you, Mr Michelovanakis, for the economy in time. Mr Vagionas from New Democracy has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u321	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will speak very briefly, because our parliamentary representative, Mr Denkias, has given me a long time to spare, which I would have for the Minister and the State Secretary. I'm addressing the State Secretary first. If you want, go on the street, in any area of Greece you want, see how happy the world is from your governance. I remember that he was the same State Secretary, if I am not mistaken, who was told by shoppers,'supply other contributions, get a higher pension'. That's the credibility. As far as the Minister is concerned, I am sorry, because he is a very young man and has these perceptions, that he can have the opposition say and welcome what the government does. So listen to the contents of your bill. We are talking today about the short-term political feasibility of the government with a horizon of only five hundred kilometres from Athens, at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition, in which the show will take place. Today's bill is nothing more than a string of fragmentary politicians, which was built only to offer a way out for his Prime Minister and Government, as it is no longer possible for Mr. Tsipras to speak in Thessaloniki about exiting the memoranda and trying to vainly demonstrate a social person. Remember some old people who are here - I do not now see the former Deputy Minister, SYRIZA's pharmacist and MP, Piraeus - in 2008, when you changed your president and Mr. Tsipras, your behaviour since the government fell with your own coup to provoke elections if you said a "yes" to a bill in New Democracy. So listen, Minister, how is the opposition? What good is it, Minister, for the long-term worker to enter 'blocks' in the perforated Katorugalou law that will be chasing you for life? How do you reverse the situation with the wages of EUR 386 and have you spoken and implied the committee for the EUR 751 that existed before our Government, before the memoranda? Our government reached 586 euros. In other words, we had a 22% reduction from EUR 751 to EUR 586. What is the reduction from EUR 586 to EUR 380? It's 35% with your own government. Do not compare unequal pay. This is not how the situation is reversed, it's just not doing anything at all. Pensioners have been having a hard time with our own government, with your own government they can't live. But there are encouraging samples in your bill, such as the acceleration of disputes. However, in order to lay solid foundations in a proper labour market surveillance system, not only is it sufficient for samples and punishment. The right moves of the past must be exploited. Watch this part, too. The state has to keep up with it. And I'm talking about the white business register, the 'PERSCEA'. So “PERSEEOS” was designed, gentlemen of the Opposition, in 2014 by the Government of New Democracy. However, because of the fall of that government, although the bill was passed, it has never been implemented. Since then, many businesses have been bankrupt. Others migrated to neighbouring countries. Those who do not have employment violations and respect the worker have paid taxes and insurance contributions to enter the white register. Not all entrepreneurs are the same. There are companies that are healthier, who pay taxes and contributions, which treat perfectly the workers, who pay them normally in the private sector, and we have a third and fourteenth wages, which you do not have in the state sector. So they must enter the “PERSEA”. And what do business want, when they have a turnover of 100 euros, and the state takes them from 52% to 59% of the turnover? Do you understand what that means? So when they come to pay, relieve them of contributions of 2%. That is, out of 100 euros paid directly for 98. Did you do it? And you know what this is? It's a percentage that counts in profit. There was this before. Why don't you apply it? Because you have allergies to any private business. For the "PERSEOS" system, which was passed in 2014, the Minister was referred to astutely during the Committee on Social Affairs. But it has been two and a half years since the takeover of power by SYRIZA and this action has not been implemented. This is your chance. See it again. Responsibly support the perpetrators. Don't demonize and don't put all the employers in the same bag. The APRC's controls, which need to be strengthened to fulfil its role, are more than necessary, but the state must deliver the caesarean's caesarean. Support them consistently, give them a little push to continue. They can't burn together with the dry and the green. Stop the irrationalities. They have no place in the modern state. It is not possible to demand back money from mayors who served and serve their land consistently. These people paid eight years of service and paid insurance contributions to the former TBR - and subsidiary insurance - so that they would also get one-off. A few years after their decision to retire from the public sector, the single EIB fund comes and asks for this money back. Where people were completely legal, they are now being held accountable. This is a question that needs to be solved immediately, to be resolved now. There is no room for deferral, transfer to a second time, as the amounts will soon be established in the tax office. Gentlemen of the government, the scope of policy is to find solutions. But if you cannot find solutions to citizens' problems, the road is open and you know it: Resign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u322	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Next is Mr. Thrafaniotis, Mr. Anastasiades and Mr. Barkas. Here, Mr. Thraniotis, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u323	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law we are debating aims to provide for years of workers' requests, to place order on the immunity of the labour market, to facilitate the claim and payment of workers in cases of non-payment. At the same time, it is faced with injustices and problems of the insurance system. Let us note here that this is the first attempt to create a single insurance system, with the failures, with the omissions and side effects that such action may possibly have. It is, however, the creation of the first single insurance body. It also introduces significant improvements in the institutional framework for the protection of people with disabilities resulting from dialogue with their representatives. It is a bill that could otherwise be accepted as a whole, which was seen in the debate on the subject and, in particular, during the hearing of the bodies, which had a great deal of positive resonance. Of course, the Opposition - especially the Eminence and the other parties - had to express their opposition and opposition. I will not, however, be tempted to refer to the past, nor to the horizontal cuts of 40% of pensions, nor to the haircut of the reserves of the insurance funds by the previous governments, nor to the netting of 'This is what you have done, that is what we do'. You will, however, allow me to comment on a point of view of the position of the rapporteur for Civilian Responsibility at the meetings of the committees. He spoke of a mess in the state budget, citing the fact that there was no economic report. This can be seen as an omission, but not a tricky one. Funny is when I put my hands on something that is not mine, such as, for example, it was with the Thessaloniki Urban Transport Organisation. On the board of directors of the agency concerned, a private enterprise, financed by the State budget, established its remuneration as he thought. It's a business you defended with passion. So let's see: the annual compensation for the board was EUR 412,000. And to have a benchmark, to say the reward of the new board of directors of the Thessaloniki Urban Transport Agency: it is EUR 86,400, that is, four and a half times less. Most importantly, the compensation will only be paid to the board when all the employees have been paid. Beyond the punk, however, there's the robbery. The robbery is when you're borrowed from a bank of 200 million and in fraudulent ways, so you don't pay it, you sell the bank on the grounds that it's loss-making. Apart from the robbery, however, there is also the crime you committed when you decided to sell the Agricultural Bank, which you have been loss-making, avoiding paying the about 200 million you owed. The New Democracy owed 104.360,000 euros and 93.000 euros to PASOK. And it is a crime because in this way you closed down the Agricultural Bank, the bank that supported farmers, and which could today make a significant contribution as a development tool to the country's productive reconstruction. It will be interesting when the proceedings submitted by the Board of the Agricultural Bank of Greece in October 2012 are dealt with, unless there is any further postponement. So you went bankrupt, as you went bankrupt, and the country we are paying for now. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law introduces a set of interventions in the field of labour and social protection, which strengthen workers' rights and improve everyday life, satisfying consistent demands. The fight against undeclared, uninsured and uninsured labour is, together with tax evasion, the big problem of the country. Undeclared, insecure, implied work violates labour rights, distorts healthy competition, undermines healthy businesses, reduces public revenues and weakens insurance funds. This draft law takes a number of measures to monitor infringements, such as the strengthening of the EIA by staff and technical equipment and the intensification of controls. The results are already impressive. Access for businesses, those who respect labour legislation, financial instruments, and exclusion of those who are in breach of the principle of non-discrimination is a powerful weapon in the fight against employers' arbitrariness. Acceleration of procedures for the resolution of labour disputes, the issue of a payment order to the detriment of the employer's personal property, the zero judiciary, operate in favour of workers. I should like to point out the employer's obligation to announce overtime electronically in an ERGAN system in a simple and easy way by telephone to combat undeclared and unpaid overtime, which, especially in sectors such as tourism and banking, has become a regular practice for employers. As the Minister explained, but also the special secretary of the APRC, undeclared overtime is unpaid overtime. Obviously, the present regime only pays it when they get caught in the leeks, as our people say. This is a practice which exploits the need for workers to work in conditions of high unemployment. All these measures will send to the labour market the message that this system, which started with the implementation of memoranda, the complete dissolution of labour relations and full immunity, is that the will and the aim of the current government is to restore the elementary normality in the labour market and to address problematic situations for the benefit of the weakest part of the workers. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I would like your tolerance for a while. Obviously, not all problems are solved. The country remains under comitology. Part of the lenders have strategic pursuit of equalisation of labour rights and has strong support within the country as well. What about the main? Unemployment, despite the significant reduction we have achieved, remains extremely high and is objectively weakening the workers. However, the road to a fair and therefore stable development goes through the restoration of industrial relations and, above all, the restoration of collective bargaining when this sad period of committee is to be brought to an end. Today some are making desperate calls to lenders to overthrow these settings. The symposium of the social majority on this objective is necessary to overcome the hard reactions of those who are taking us today, those who say that it is nothing, but they did not think of doing so while they were ruling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u324	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Anastasiades, before you go to Stepma, Mr. Petropoulos, the Deputy Minister of Labour, has spoken to develop a legislative improvement. Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u325	Thank you, Mr President. Soon I will say that we are introducing legislative improvements. As I said to the committee yesterday, Articles 15 and 18 of the bill are deleted, so the following articles are reformed. I do not want to talk about this in detail. There is a legislative improvement for the principle of Article 3. Point 1 is added and a second paragraph is inserted which provides - for civil servants only - that the provision on wages is also calculated for subsidiary insurance, one-off provision and social care. Others are technical questions of wording, which I do not think I need to develop. I am making the relevant legislative improvements to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u326	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Anastasiades, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u327	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, Mr. Petropoulou - have you left the Chamber? - I am amazed to hear you say that you are trying to stir up a tragic situation between the insured and the retired, but the main thing is not to accept and not to tolerate criticism, not to tolerate the other view, not to tolerate the dialogue between you who define yourself as democrats. It is, of course, known as your perception, totalitarian, space and ideology. Ladies and gentlemen, it is obvious that the government is trying to present a charitable person with the bill it introduces for discussion and vote to give the Prime Minister the opportunity to advertise his so-called left social sensitivity. It's not the first time you've been trying to do that, and history shows that it won't be the last. But you don't make it. Self-determination and self-determination all the time. because your policies are the ones that created part-time workers of EUR 360 and pensioners of EUR 185. The spectacular Katorugalou law, the law that would solve the insurance and labour problems of the country, the law you so warmly presented to us and supported it with all your powers, was finally perforated, with ambiguities that you are forced to constantly correct from the day after his vote. That is what is happening today with the bill we are discussing. Despite your valuable efforts, however, the wounds of the insurance and glutton of wage and pension reductions are not healed. Reductions in wages due to successive reductions in duty-free and dramatically increasing indirect and direct taxes and insurance contributions exceed both wages. Reductions in supplementary pensions are expected to reach 40% while Mr Petropoulos claims others. Since January, 2015, you have not gone ahead with the award of supplementary pensions. They are frozen about 30 thousand supplementary pensions, because the famous mathematical formula of Mr Katrugalo is not yet working. At the same time, three hundred thousand citizens are waiting in line for their retirement. You have created an entire army of retired people, who are unable to meet their basic needs from the unfair cuts that have already taken place on your day. And it comes in 2019, that under your law pensioners will lose two to three more pensions. You want to see what's going on with the FBI? Its operation is still problematic, so that the services are confused and the insured, of course, are unduly delaying their retirement. Not for long-awaited revenues, I don't think that should be the case. Approximately 1.2 billion reached the loss of insurance contributions. I would also remind you that electronic auctions are taking place within everything. The "no house in the hands of a banker" you yelled, also lost this in the well of Mr. Tsipras' promises and commitments. In a reality that is completely different from the one you are trying to present, you once again proceed to an attempt to deceive the Greek people with communications tricks and management. It is obvious that this bill is designed to support the Prime Minister's new account in the International Exhibition of Thessaloniki on its so-called charitable sensitivity, so-called balanced development and return to normality. That is why this bill does not include any difficult memorial intervention. You come with small stumblings, you create a virtual reality. The real problems, however, are no longer hidden under the carpet and are not solved by feasibility and communication management. The real picture of society is not the protected environment of Prime Minister in Thessaloniki and elsewhere and your environment. Let the Prime Minister go to the district - he will be in Thessaloniki - let him go to the mountains in Soho and Arethoussa, let him go to Halkidona, let him go to Basilica, let him go to the industrial area of Sindo, to see what the reality is in society, see what unemployment means, see what retired, see what it means to be an uninsured super-liber, see what it means to society and the people. Despite the fact that this law clearly serves party purposes, the New Democracy will be responsible to see positive provisions that we feel are moving in the right direction. Yes, to protect the undeclared work we received at 40% and deliver it to 13%, and that's where it was left, to agree that justice must be given quickly when the worker is affected, to stand against the bayonal employers. However, we must distinguish them from those who are trying to deal with temporary liquidity problems. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will end in a minute, Mr President. We must not put everyone in the same bag, the bad employers, who are conscious of the rights of workers, with all the other law-abiding entrepreneurs, who are trying to survive without the help of the banking system in an environment of heavy and unfair taxation, insurance contributions, red loans and a lack of liquidity. Communications games are very well, but the crucial issue in our country's case is the creation of new jobs, the change in the investment climate, the support for private investment. And unfortunately, for the country, you do not want and you cannot respond to this challenge, because you very simply do not believe in the private initiative. And you prove this every day with your speeches. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, we have in our hands a bill with many vague and general provisions that are in the wrong direction. The party's parliamentary representative said earlier, not to see, again in a week, you will find yourself out and you will be voting against what you are voting on, because that is what you are used to us. It does not solve the injustices you charged the Greek society with. In fact, this bill reflects the difference in philosophy and approach to the burning issues that concern the country. And that difference now is perceived by society. And this does not change with ideological approaches. It changes with the strengthening of the investment climate, changes with the strengthening of private initiative, changes with the creation of new jobs. But these are not compatible with your ideology at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u328	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Barka, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u329	Thank you very much, Mr President. In listening to the speeches of the Parliamentary Representative and of the Members of the New Democracy, I came to my mind a continental phrase which describes the fact that other things we are talking about and other positions are made by the Members of the New Democracy. This saying says, "Others bore the organs, elsewhere the bride dances!" We are not currently discussing Mr Katrugalos' bill, but a new bill from the Ministry of Labour, which says specific things. But, Mr President, I would first like to refer to an event which, in my opinion, is extremely dangerous for democracy. I am referring to the finger of the Chief of Staff, to an officer, if you like, of the Officer of the New Democracy, choosing and announcing that this person will not be a candidate, without collective organs running without the organs of the New Democracy Party. In my view this is extremely dangerous. And I'm defending not Father Tragakis for his placement in his interview. It was a bad place for Father Tragakis. I am, however, defending the right of the son not to follow the mistakes of the father and the family, but to have his own right to political life, to political position, even to a party such as the New Democracy. And I think we should all describe this and mention it. They are new types of parties, which unfortunately have extreme right, in my view, of perceptions and functions, and in no way can we characterise them. As far as the bill is concerned, there is a substantial difference in relation to the previous bills we have been discussing in plenary. We had the Ministry of Education bill before the House closed in August, in which we saw few Members of the New Democracy placed them there. In today's bill, we have a lot of New Democracy MPs coming to Step and making popy paste speeches about other things in relation to what this bill says. But let's see why the New Democracy MPs weren't talking to the Ministry of Education bill. Because Mr Mitsotakis today, speaking to students from public universities, said: 'I am the first thing I will do is establish private universities'. He cancels the presence of students, of children who gave their battle to go to the Greek universities and says, "I don't care about the framework in our country, but I defend the private universities." The New Democracy's political plan is obvious from Mr Mitsotakis's words. As far as this bill is concerned, what you refer to in your speeches has nothing to do with what is written in the bill. And obviously, they have nothing to do with it, because what this bill writes bothers you. You do not agree, you do not want to be implemented, you are not with work, you are not with the workers. And I am referring to a New Democracy MEP left in Parliament, Mr Kavvada. Unfortunately, Mr Cavada, you will accept all the pressure on your parliamentary group. So I say that the Qualified Opposition does not believe this bill, does not want to be passed, wants to cancel, it is not with the workers, it is with the employers. This is because it develops a political model of development, which was characterised by about three years of 2012-2015. Mr Mitsotakis and the entire government then said that the problem of the country's competitiveness is wages, excessive labour costs. So what do we have to do? Let's cut the wages. So what did Mr Brutsis do as Minister of Labour? He brought wages to the private and public sector below 400 euros. And that's to enable employers to find cheap workers' hands. What else did they say? That the problem of competitiveness in our country - the same is said today - has not changed - is that our neighbouring countries have cheap labour hands. But they do not answer the question of what kind of development neighbouring countries have, what kind of economy they have. Do they have an economy that is blossom, which provides an honor for the leaderships of the countries that are at our border? So what you are saying is that the political model developed in 2012-2015 you want to go on with it, even more extreme than what you did. You want to deliver everything to the private sector. You want the private sector and employers to have cheap labour hands. You want workers to have no workright. So we, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, are on the opposite side. We are bringing a bill, which all SYRIZA Members had the heat to defend, to be draftsmen of the bill, a bill for which we really feel proud to be in this House for two reasons. The first is that we are bringing a normality in relation to what you had destroyed in previous governance. And the second reason is that you react so strongly against this bill. So, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, what we are doing is putting people in the leadership of the Ministry of Labour who are in the mood to defend the workers. We, gentlemen of the New Democracy, therefore, do not have the job inspectorate here, but we give him a leading role in the development of our work policy. It is clear that we have another political project, that we are developing it. We have another theoretical starting point. We are putting the workers back in the forefront. We are once again giving substance to the role and the essence of the role of the workers. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I have completed. And we are sure, gentlemen, that our political plan will be developing for a very long time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u330	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. We've got some changes on the speaker list. Mrs Karasarlidou, Mrs Brandza, Mr Cavada and Mrs Megalo-Economics will be followed and we will then inform you of the rest of the speakers. Here, Mrs. Karasardou, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u331	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, in the years of the memoranda, what was injured in the most brutal way was the social state. They are wounds caused by a domestic elite, which, after neutralising every potential of this state, turned to the weakest to pay its own destructive policies. They are wounds that we too have failed to actively reverse and heal within this tight framework of budgetary discipline, but which have led to a large part of society, particularly youth in unemployment, social impoverishment and social exclusion. We are not trying to re-establish ourselves, but to re-establish a social model that ensures social justice and human dignity, which has been so neglected in these years of the memorandum. For the first time since 2010 there has been a draft law with regulations that respond to the fair demands of workers and, for the first time since 2010, this vital space has been created, but a vital area that we have hardly created. The arrangements of this bill are a breath that protects the rights of the world of work and shields labour legislation. It shows that one of the objectives of this government was and remains the reconstruction of the social state. Unemployment, the great nightmare of our country, in the last two years has recorded a clear downward trend, with new jobs reaching in the first half of 2017 the two hundred sixty thousand. Let us not forget, however, that at least nine hundred thousand jobs have been lost from 2010 to 2014 and unpaid, undeclared and implied jobs have taken enormous proportions. The previous political options have enabled the protection of workers to be brought to an end at the time to a huge extent. This framework created comes to overthrow this draft law with the arrangements for which issues relating to social security are dealt with, the framework for the protection of workers is strengthened and solutions are given to chronic problems. Insurance and labour regulations, all the provisions for disabled people and the care for the profession of social workers because of their particular importance for social protection are some examples of the foundations on which our proposal and the progressive guidelines we want to give are based. The change in the way the worker is notified of his voluntary departure and the overtime procedure, the possibility of issuing a salary order and the speeding up of the trial for dismissal will put a brake on the chaos of the infringability of the previous years. The imposition of suspension penalties on undertakings that systematically violate legislation, the exclusion of operators who are illegal from Community funds and public funds, the separation of insurance from status in the mechanical and legal sectors, so that they do not have to pay contributions without having a fixed demand for thousands of self-employed persons - the brake on reducing the disability pension to people with mental illnesses who undertake some kind of work in the framework of the reintegration or rehabilitation effort, the extension of the disability pension for six months pending examination by the health committees in the centres for invalidity certification - is the discrepancy that we have been able to give to problems of thousands of workers who have lost even self-evidently during the years of the crisis. There are many stories of people who have worked, but have not been rewarded, who have lost their jobs without compensation, have not taken their signals and have often not been respected. Ladies and gentlemen, redefinition of labour rights is part of a specific policy, a specific strategy. We are working for it and we are seeking to create a new development model. For us, decent work has a leading role. We therefore call on all political forces, at least those who want to be called 'progressive', to support this government proposal and to show that their pro-social appeals are not hollow words, but consistent political attitude that proves to be pragmatic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u332	We thank you for the economy in time. Here, Mrs. Vanja, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u333	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, before I begin my position on this bill, I would like to make some comments about what has been heard today in Parliament's Chamber. I shall begin with the positions of the Members of the Communist Party. The truth is, your position has caused me to wonder, but also to be sad. I do not understand the depreciation of the bill, a bill that solves not much, but little of the huge problems that exist in the workplace, which helps our common purpose, to create better conditions for workers. Because here, in fact, we are not just talking and expressing opinions, but to solve problems, I do not really understand how you deceive a bill that has good articles about the working world. Of course, I have more to say about the PASOK and the New Democracy colleagues. First of all, Mr Dendias is not here, but I would like to refer to his comment. We, SYRIZA MPs, do not sleep and wake up with the percentages of polls. From this position given to us by the Greek people, we are only living under the responsibility and the agony of being able to offer Greece what it really deserves. So you understand the country as a spoil, you also face this piece of legislation with courage and arrogantness. I have not heard any self-criticism about the situation in which the country has come, about the high rates of unemployment, about the collapse of insurance, about the comitology and the memoranda which you have ultimately imposed. Indeed, the debate in the Greek Parliament should take place at another level and not be so superficial, because we are not insulting ourselves or the Greek Parliament, but those who bring us here. I'm going to continue my position in the bill. So in society, and with the aim of solving the chronic problems that afflict it, we are here today to vote for one of the most important, in my opinion, bills. In Greece of the crisis, inequality and injustice - the result of the previous governments, as I said - which plundered the country and also economic and social, we are now coming to create, despite the insuperable obstacles and the prohibitions, a new system that will, unfortunately, correct basic pathogens, punish infraction and shield citizens in the field of labour and social protection. Its work and armour should not be the exception, but the rule on which every society is built. I personally agree entirely with the Minister's position, which stated that this bill is the first purely protective legislation of the Ministry of Labour from the start of the crisis to the present day. I also agree with the position of the Minister of Economy, who said that this law - from tomorrow onwards to the vote - will be one of our tools for exiting the country from the crisis. The first and main axis of the bill is undeclared, undeclared, but unpaid work. We are all aware of the huge problem that exists in Greece and it is called 'black work'. In this heavy work area, a relatively new phenomenon has been added, that of the so-called work. We have, in other words, passed from the status of full undeclared work to poorly declared work, with workers being insured much less than they actually are. This problem is called upon to resolve this bill by combating infringibility with a number of rights which shield the worker's position, which can now demand self-evident, that is, a reward for his work in full dignity. For the first time, workers will be made available to them to ensure that they are legally responsible. The possibility of issuing a payment order by the worker at the expense of the employer, as well as the resolution of the dazzling, time-consuming and cost-effective economic system, will lead to the strengthening and the procedure for claiming accrued earnings and the general position of workers in cases of circumvention of the rights of their employers. This is a series of reforms which I consider to be a real part of the present status of the workplace. I shall mention, for example, two important regulations very briefly, in my view. It is the possibility of the unemployed to receive an unemployment benefit now immediately without a prior judicial decision, as only the refusal to pay by the employer is deemed to correspond to a complaint between them. It was a proposal from the Communist Party that the government adopted, because it was considered appropriate. This is how we should legislate in the Greek Parliament. A second important reform, in my opinion, is the extension and adaptation of labour rights to the modern character of society, such as maternity leave and women involved in the process of having a child with adoption and the foundation of a surrogate mother. The second and equally important axis of the bill is the link between the insurance and the activity and not in the capacity of engineers and lawyers. Article 22 of the bill provides for the disconnection of the obligation to be subject to the insurance of EKKA, formerly CSMEDE, EBRD and so on, from the status of the person registered at the Technical Chamber of Greece and the respective legal association. This reform solves a general problem concerning these two scientific sectors, which has ultimately caused the suspension of licences for the profession of scientists, especially young scientists - but not only - precisely because they were unable to respond to very - very high insurance contributions even when they had no income at all. There is therefore a serious and organised effort to eliminate the existing disparities between insured persons and, for the first time and afterward, the insurance law, the principle of equal treatment and the association - which is obviously very reasonable - of the obligation to contribute to the activity of each insured person, but also of linking the amount of the contribution to the income of the professional. All this, of course, ranks in the overall reconstruction of the insurance system, in order to restore the injustices and inequality of the past, to ensure the sustainability of the insurance company, which was at risk and at risk, and to create a rule of law that protects and does not prosecute citizens away. Another part of the draft law concerns disabled people. A state that wants to be called modern and fair should show its sensitivity and provision to disabled people. We are therefore voting today on provisions that provide for the full reform of the state system, so that people with disabilities will not be consolidated as a marginalized group, but as individuals with active participation in the country's social, political and economic life. The implementation of the UN Convention on Disabled Persons should contribute to a single purpose in the fight against social racism, which consists either in a failure to access disabled persons to the natural, administrative and electronic environment, or in the isolation of their rights from the general legislative process. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The last part of the bill - I end in half a minute - concerns the organisation of the Association of Social Workers of Greece to a legal person governed by public law and comes to deal with the social problems with the seriousness that they deserve. In a country where the crisis took social dimensions, with many families added to the long list of vulnerable groups, social welfare gains credibility. It ceases to be a confusing body with only consultative action and is being upgraded to an organised association of professionals, which is called upon to do a major social project. I close by expressing my conviction that this bill can only have a positive impact on Greek society. It reflects the anthropocentric approach of today's left-wing government, with the main aim of combating inequalities and eliminating social injustices. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting in favour of the draft law under discussion, and I call on you to do the same, because it will be a very good and useful law for our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u334	We too, Mrs. Vanja. Here, Mr. Kavvada, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u335	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, a few days before the Prime Minister's speech at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition, the Minister of Labour said to help Mr. Tsipras somewhat. So he tabled the bill we are debating today in the hope that with this he will help SYRIZA and the Prime Minister to continue his account of protecting workers, improving the conditions in the labour market, developing and exiting the crisis. But do you know, ladies and gentlemen, what is the reality? The reality is that all Greek citizens are experiencing and it is uneasy to see Mr. Tsipras and his government. Anyone on the street who moves on the labour market is well aware of the real conditions. Despite what SYRIZA insists on claiming, all he has achieved within two and a half years of his government is to shut down banks, sink the economy, sign two new improper memos, drown households with taxes and contributions, demolish pensions, impoverish workers and further deregulation the labour market. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, where are the 751 euros you were feeding for basic salary? Where is even the 586 euros you posted? What I know is that most young people, young workers, are rewarded with 360 euros, even under the basic salary, creating for the first time in modern Greece the poorest generation of workers that has ever been. This is your creation. It is not just a question of whether we are going to be able to do this, but also of how we are going to do this, and what we are going to do here, and what we are going to do here, and what we are going to do here, we are going to do here. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to comment on a few specific articles. The provisions of Article 3 shall apply to a pension reduction, in particular for military, police, port, university and doctors in the RIS, paid by provisions of Law 4472/2017, as the personal difference they receive will not be calculated in their remuneration. The provisions of Article 17 confirm the reduction of supplementary pensions from 21,4% to 40%, due to an increase in the rate of substitution to 0,45% for applications lodged from 1 January 2015 for the part of the pension corresponding to the periods of insurance up to 31 December 2014. However, the worst part is that no supplementary pension has been approved since 1 January 2015. One hundred and twenty thousand applications remain outstanding, which is growing constantly, as new applications are submitted every day. At the same time, over three hundred thousand pensioners are waiting for their retirement. Minister, let me make a proposal. Article 25 provides for the possibility of working with mentally ill people, without reducing their allowance or pensions, and provided that their work is appropriate for the purpose of psychosocial rehabilitation and social reintegration. In this context I propose, Minister, as you consider the inclusion in this article and other MEDIs, who have a disability rate of 50% to 79.9%, particularly those with no apparent disability, such as diabetics, heart disease and others. In this way, we will also give these fellow citizens the message of social reintegration and of supply to society as a whole. An important change concerning enterprises also brings Article 38, which establishes the obligation to register overtime electronically in the ERGAN system. Personally, I think there will be practical difficulties in the new system. Why? It is extremely difficult for a company to anticipate an emergency. For example, in commercial enterprises there may be an unforeseen delay in delivering or transporting products and there may be a need for some workers to go beyond their hours. Then what about drivers or external sellers? They're gonna stop at the side of the road and call downtown to report them overtime? Also, for how long should they tell the worker? In other words, how will the end of overtime be recorded, since we cannot always know how long it will last. Finally, will there be a signature of the worker in the announcement of overtime, as is the case in the present system? I hope that you will give an answer to all this and prepare, Minister, immediately the mechanism of an easy statement, through sms, because otherwise there will be enormous difficulties in implementing it. In conclusion, let me say that I expect to hear with great interest the Prime Minister on Saturday at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition and the new account of SYRIZA on an alleged exit from the memoranda. Really, what kind of exit are you talking about, ladies and gentlemen of the government? Outside the Memorandums, when in 2019 a new pension reduction comes and in 2020 a tax reduction, when you have committed the country with primary surpluses of 3.5% by 2022 and when the notorious ‘cutter’ of wages and pensions will perpetuate each year? Do you want to help growth and the market? Why don't you give until the end of September 1.2 billion. Euros to private individuals, so that you can get the sponsorship of the 800 million that the lenders are now punishing and give a breath to the market? Now, of course, you've been seeing investors. At the same time, however, you find every way to block significant investments that will create thousands of new jobs, such as Greek. With this policy, and with this tactic, the country cannot go forward. We need a direct policy change and a stable New Democracy government, which, through the reduction of taxes, the reduction of costs and the attraction of investment, will create new jobs and breathe a good economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u336	Thank you, Mr. Kavada. The floor is now held by Mrs. Megalo-Economics for seven minutes. Then ten speakers are followed, along with Ms. Big housekeeper. Well, if we can keep the time, we'll be done at 12 o'clock at night. Let's get the others ready. Soft, Shoe and hood for the follow-up. Here, Mrs. Big Housekeeper, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u337	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, we are once again discussing a bill on pension, insurance and labour issues. Following the law of Minister Katorugalos and the many changes that you have made to this law, we are again coming to legislate on insurance matters which in recent years have been a real open wound to the Greek economy. But, before I place myself on these flaming issues, I would like to start with something positive - not to start with the bill's negatives - because the bill actually contains some provisions that are in a very positive direction. First of all, I think it is obvious at last by the regulation of Article 16 and by the prediction that contributions paid by an insured person should be offset and that they should not be paid. I would remind you at this point that for years there have been funds that have neither accepted to return nor offset the above money that the insured person, if any, gave. I also consider that it fully corresponds to the needs of the time when the arrangement no longer obliges the engineer or lawyer, who did not obtain proof or practice the profession and was obliged to do so because he was written in the CSMEO or the Bar Association to pay contributions. Indeed, because of the crisis, many are out of work, but they had to pay their fund at the same time as we are going through. So today's regulation is very good, since it had zero income. I also fully agree that people with disabilities should work and at the same time receive their pension, which they need, in order for these people to be integrated into society again. They have, of course, a new motive that will make them good in their mental health. And they will not lose their retirement, and they will also be beneficial to society. This is a key incentive and their retirement is an instrument and an important element in their survival. Another positive element is in relation to CSRs. The other should not lose his pension because the CEECs are not organised or have no individuals to be able to serve all the number that has to pass through an AEA examination. They are often delayed, but since it is not their fault, they must not be cut off. It goes without saying that they are not the same blames, but the problem is in the state, so you have to give solutions to the long delays that have been made by the CSRs. It's not the person's fault that he's delaying CSR passing them through the exam. There must therefore be immediate priority, there must be more committees in the CSDP, so that people in need of certification can be examined quickly and in a timely manner. I would also like to make a few comments on the change that you have brought about the quickest trial of labour disputes, as you say. First of all, we must admit that it is a big issue to delay the administration of justice in general. I think it makes sense, but I think it is a 'block', let me say that, in favour of one or the other social group. I'll tell you something, Minister. There are women who have turned against their husbands for nutrition and have been years before a decision is made. So these women cannot live their children until the court decides whether they are entitled to diet against their husband. And how can this be done if there are no judges to get to trial all cases and solve the problem? There are so many outstanding cases because there are no judges, there are not enough judges to judge them. That's the primary one. It is not just employment issues, it is social issues. So, as far as that woman who's turned against her husband because she's not getting a diet and can't feed her children, is that any more the problem? Isn't it social? Is it just work? Look at it, Minister. We must support women a little, not leave them to their fate. Finally, I agree that overtime should be properly and promptly included in the ERGAN system, so that the employer is pressed to state all overtime. It is assumed that a large volume of overtime and overworking is not declared by businesses, and this entails a serious exploitation at the expense of workers and, of course, a huge loss in the State's revenues. I also hope it delivers the expected results, the fact that businesses that systematically violate labour legislation will be excluded from public tenders. The legality must finally be self-evident in our country. One who violates labour law should not have the right to take part in public competitions. At this point I would like to make a special reference to the provisions of the bill concerning disabled people. Here I am very sensitive. Unfortunately, only announcements and legislation are sufficient for them to be treated equally. We should give essential priority to caring for people with disabilities and giving them the right ground to have the same chances as other citizens. This requires years of education for the Greek people, a change in education and, above all, a change in education and, unfortunately, a change in the state itself to prove in practice that it is serious about MEDIs, first by making all public services accessible to people with disabilities, which, unfortunately, is now a summer night dream. People with disabilities do not have access to public services. There are several problems in the bill. It is a long time when pensioners see their pensions undergo new cuts. In fact, there is an increase in contributions from 4% to 4.5% for pensioners who see their money falling. There is, indeed, a reduction in the personal difference. Now I want to refer to the following: the insurance system is falling apart for two reasons. The first reason is that we have an ageing population. We are the oldest population, after Italy, in Europe. Secondly, there is the fact that most businesses are sinking into their insurance debts. In fact, I would like to present my question with number 7252 that I had tabled on July 25, 2016 to Minister Katrugalos - I would like to read it out for you - where the Nice Trade Association, Minister, called for the old contributions to be frozen and the new ones to be started. To date, after a year, my question is still unanswered. I would like to ask you once again whether it will be answered. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Theodora Megalonikou, presents for the minutes the question referred above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice.]] These are the essentials that should concern us. Now I see everything else as flowers. Perhaps the Minister would like to say something at the Report. I hope that our lenders will approve them and not just tell us that they will be told by the Prime Minister at the Report as something nice. At least what he will say, give something essential and be able to help the suffering world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u338	Thank you, Mrs. Big Housekeeper, too. Mr. Kalafatis, you have the floor for seven minutes. I would, of course, ask that we keep the time to get out at 12 o'clock.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u339	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposed insurance provisions of the draft law tabled by the Ministry of Labour and we are discussing today are another hopeless attempt by the government in a long series of - sixteen bills - such as useless interventions, to save what can be saved from the collapse of the insurance structure - an abortion of Katrugalos, before even a year has come into force, an insurance law which the government has neither made nor too much nor will it stipulate that it will not only make the insurance system operational and sustainable but would inflame a new animal breath in the social solidarity and aid contract between the generations. The government has indeed made the generations of solidarity. The generation of EUR 360 minimum wage stands equal and equal to the abstract generation of EUR 185! It equates them both down to the level of poverty, impoverishment and despair. It takes advantage of the inalienable right of the new generation, who wants to work, to hope that she can create as her parents and grandparents and the generation leaving the line of work, the inalienable right to enjoy the fruits of her labors and sacrifices. With EUR 185, what protection is really granted by the Government at the time of the insurance, old age, diseases, death, which normally undertakes to deal with a serious security system for citizens? Absolutely nothing. With EUR 185 what social injustice is it that the government can pretend to correct and restore with a sense of justice? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Instead, the insurance system Kakrugalou and the desperate attempts to reform it, the ones that followed, like the one you are proposing today, are a leading confession of failure, a confirmation of the tragic deadlock in which you have brought things and also a revelation of your panic. While the effects of the Katrugalos Act are disastrous, in trying to overcome your evil self, you show with the new regulations the worst and sufferings of your pensioners on days are not perfect, as the number of outstanding main outstanding pensions exceeds thirty-nine thousand, which touches 1,4 billion euros, which the Commission confirms, the number of outstanding supplementary pensions exceeds a hundred and twenty-seven thousand with debts close to EUR 650 million, the number of outstanding one-off pensions exceeds sixty-three thousand, with debts exceeding EUR 900 million. Ladies and gentlemen, about three hundred thousand pensioners are in the waiting line, with the corresponding debts of EUR 3 billion. Thirty thousand of our fellow citizens are waiting, sacrificing even their dignity, as if they were asking for mercy, pensions. Approximately two hundred and twenty thousand insured, those who have been applying for retirement since May 2016 who will leave until 2019, will undergo cuts of up to 30%. Finally, pensioners who have to receive their main pension during 1-1-2019 will see the main pensions do not receive any nominal growth in this year on the basis of growth and inflation in the previous years and a number of other problems will be borne by the SYRIZA - ANLE Government's policy. I would also remind the House that the reductions from 1-1-2016 amounted to EUR 165 million for a hundred and twenty-thousand low pensioners and in 2017 to EUR 587 million for two hundred and seventy thousand pensioners. The full abolition of the total amount of 900 million for the CSCE will take place until 31/12-2019. Remind the large losses from cutting the personal difference to paid pensions from 2019, with a visible risk that there will be a complete cut in the difference. If 18% of the reduction is taken into account due to the alignment of young and old pensioners, the loss of spouse's benefits, children, etc., then the reduction reaches 25%. Of course, I would remind you of the increase in health contributions from 4% to 6% in all the main pensions, 6% in subsidiary and 6% in double pensions. I would remind you that widow's pensions for survivors under the age of fifty were abolished and the survivor's pension was cut to 50% because of death or 25% if the survivor works or self-employed or receives a pension from any source. Approximately fifteen thousand beneficiaries of the newly sold widow's pensions have been waiting in line for over a year and a half. I would remind you that some sixty-five thousand single public-private, pension application is pending from 1 September 2013 and will be reduced to 20% with a long-term expectation until August 2018. Of course, if we are going to talk about contributions, I would like to stress that, from 1 January 2019, new extermination contributions to free professionals, doctors, engineers and lawyers are being imposed with a percentage increase in some cases of up to 61%. Let me remind you that the contributions of the free professionals, doctors, engineers, lawyers and farmers have been calculated in 2015's income and no netting has yet been made with the income of the previous year. Let me remind you, of course, of 11% of supplementary pension contributions and one-off retrospective, which threatens hundreds of thousands of free professionals and self-employed persons, as if they have not already been excessively charged. I close, ladies and gentlemen, with four other major truths showing the black image of the insurance and work space, as the policies of the SYRIZA - ANEL government have shaped it. Firstly, the overall fiscal adjustment of the SYRIZA for its periodic insurance reform and its ongoing experimentation reaches EUR 10 billion. Secondly, the dues to the insurance funds have doubled. Within two and a half years, they increased by 113%, reaching 23.3 billion euros from 10.9 in 2014. Thirdly, flexible forms of employment, part-time employment and rotating employment have exceeded full-time. Fourthly, the decline in unemployment appears to occur is accompanied by new part-time jobs which substitute for full-time jobs and are characterised by lower wages, creating the new generation of poor workers. You have brought, ladies and gentlemen of the government, a cataclysm to the workplace and insurance and, of course, this bill can only work as a womb to your overall insurance and labour policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u340	Thank you, Mr. Kalafatis. Mr. Marios Katsis has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u341	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, the years of the crisis have become accustomed to coming to this Chamber in bills written by the most morbid neoliberal minds to which labour rights have been torn apart and which have devastated millions of workers. I believe that this draft law, however, unlike these bills, comes to protect and strengthen the working environment, at a time when the Greek economy has begun to find its pace. It does not solve all the problems but does important interventions concerning large social groups and this is a sign of fair growth that our government and the Prime Minister are talking about. Because in order to catch the recovery of economic indicators, which is visible and gives us optimism, a framework is needed which will channel fair benefits from the country's return to normality. At this point I would like to stress that we do not triumph for the positive effects of economic indicators, but we are optimistic, because we see a positive outlook for society in front of us. But what state did you leave? You left the country with registered unemployment of 27%, full dismantling of the labour market for the benefit of the major employers. You have essentially demanded the Labour Inspectorate with the revised establishment plans of the 2014 Presidential Decree and Thesprotia - in my own region - abolished it there in order that there would be no monitoring of infringements, in the light of the small and flexible state, in order to unleash employers' arbitrage. That's your logic. 40% - and you are not ashamed to come here and leave us - you have reduced the wages in the public sector on one night in 2012, you have determined by an act of Ministerial Council the minimum wage from 751 to 586, and you have abolished the collective negotiations and the re-energy, and you come here and "swing the finger" to today's government! Thousands of young people have left abroad because of the policies you have conducted, while a large mass of young scientists have been allowed to take leave of a profession to claim a job, as someone had to be unemployed with zero income - listen, listen! - to pay contributions. That is why it would be a good thing, ladies and gentlemen of Officerial Response, but also gentlemen of the Elassonian opposition, who are on the same line, to the IMF line, if not to ask for an apology from the Greek people, which you have never done, to be at least more involved in your positions. Let me also make a small political comment. I hear the colleagues on the so-called centre-left side making extreme neoliberal positions, such as that payment of contributions according to income is not social justice but a reward for the minor effort, that 27% of Samaras' unemployment was less than 21.5% this morning. It's probably SKAY statistics! I wonder. The reason that some of you aren't in New Democracy is that Mr. Mitsotakis doesn't have space on his ballots or that you don't like his elastic choices? Because, really, I can't see any other difference. Unfortunately, the "stages" that the Greek economy came down to 2015 is a lot to come back and wants work. These wounds, unfortunately, are not easily closed. With this draft law, we have a set of provisions concerning undeclared, undeclared work and unpaid work and individual provisions on extending working rights to groups which did not enjoy them as they should. It may at some point have a punishing, repressive character, but in the end it is fair for the healthy employer who respects labour legislation, who has so far been caught foolish by their illegal competitors, gaining a competitive advantage when they bring in they do not pay overtime, meaning or contributory. Behind these provisions of the bill, there are no ideas behind a left-wing governance, which endanger the program or a left-hand "vezers" as it usually sounds from your circles. Behind the bill is the difficult day-to-day life of thousands of young people and workers. This youth is working a lot. He's getting paid a little bit and he's talking at all. It hides the daily agony of people who are struggling to get through every day and must no longer feel unprotected toward every employer who is exploiting their work. Do you really have answers to the following questions? How much more unpaid hours are for you? What's it worth going back to your home and your family, your relationship, your wife, three hours later? What's it worth to you? Know something extremely serious. We're not working for a hobby. We don't want to give up not an hour, but not five minutes. Not even five minutes! By voting for this bill, we put a little bit of money in order to restore dignity to work. Some important points of the bill are the following. First, to the employer who infringes the provisions of labour law, a point system, i.e. a temporary or even definitive closure of the operation of the undertaking will be imposed on the employer. No more interventions by the party state you have made to punish opponents and to relieve friends! Secondly, the employer is now obliged to register legally overtime in the ERGAN system before starting it. The worker cannot be obediently obeyed in the'seated up two more matures' and, indeed, unpaid and made a 'ladder'. Thirdly, an electronic announcement of the voluntary departure of a worker is made, stating that the worker has agreed. This is how workers are protected from false announcement by the employer of voluntary retirement, to fire them, that is, at night without compensation. Fourthly, they are excluded from access to public money and public procurement, companies that systematically violate labour legislation. No more parasitic entrepreneurs with guaranteed profits from the state and workers slaves. Such phenomena are known by everyone in our regions and across the country and concern thousands of workers in contracted cleaning companies, securiti and everything else you can imagine. Fifthly, it is the employer who carries out construction work or technical work who is required to make an electronic announcement of the staff employed before each day's work begins, since the building sector is of great inconsistency. There is something very important to which I would like to stand as a constant request from the people of my new generation, my generation. There is no connection at last between the occupational status of insurance and insurance. A young scientist who just received a degree, an engineer, a lawyer, was not writing to the TE or the Bar Association, because he had to be automatically registered in the fund by paying contributions from his or her parents' zero income. He also could not start working in his industry because he was not licensed to pursue a profession. He will now be able to obtain permission to pursue a profession and when he finds a job, he will be obliged to pay contributions. Finally, there are critical interventions for the protection of maternity and vulnerable workers, while at the same time positive arrangements are laid down for disabled people and their equal inclusion in society. In closing, I'll say we're aware of where we are. We are working on exemption from the close committee and restrictive policies. What we are doing is what we can, not what we would like and people understand it. However, for the next day, we have to define it today and show our care every day, using every mark for the benefit of the workers and the weaker layers. But it is also a duty of the workers - and I would like from this point of view to address them - to make use of the existing protection tools through their associations with fellow solidarity, to radicalize their trade union leaderships and to claim more rights. Let us not forget that since 2019 they will be invited to fight for the new collective agreements that we fought for. The working forces must be able to fight on better terms and that is why we are trying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u342	Thank you, too. Mrs. Scouffa, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u343	‘Working is a right and is protected by the State’. Article 22 of the Greek Constitution. It is precisely this protection of the work and the workers themselves that is going to strengthen the specific legislation that we are presenting today. I should like to refer to some of the provisions, for example, because I have the impression that they have not been heard in the Chamber. I am going to refer to Article 9, with which farmers will now be able to buy fictitious insurance and at a lower price, 20% on the forecast 70% of the minimum wage, i.e. around EUR 82 per month. Article 16 requires that contributions unduly paid or offset by future contributions may be repaid. For this provision, the Athens Bar Association issued a press release, saying the problem is resolved in the right direction. There is also the very important provision of Article 22, for which the President of the Technical Chamber of Greece George Stasinos and the former President of TSMEDE Konstantinos Macedos mentioned to the committees that he would replace a year of injustice against lawyers and engineers, since the status quo is disconnected, which in turn means that the obligation to pay insurance contributions will exist only with the start of the business and for that duration and not with the registration of the TE or the lawyers. Article 38 requires each employer to make an electronic announcement of overtime before it starts, so that it can be checked at the time of the overtime. To hear some of the opinions of workers in this House, one would see that almost all described that one of the most important problems of the Greek labour market, at the expense of all workers, is the undeclared hours of overworking and overtime. This is because keeping a book - not even required in 2010 - did not make effective control possible, since in case there were no inspection, falsification of the book was observed, since the obligation to register electronically in the 'ERGAN' was only made in the first quarter of each month of the overtime that took place in the previous month, which means that overtime was recorded in the 'ERGANI', only in case the APRC was the subject of an audit. Detailed examples of alleged work are also mentioned in the positions of Georgios Christopoulos, Secretary General of the Federation of Private Educational Officers of Greece, commonly OELE, according to which in secondary education and foreign language centres (OHS) the miracle workers were either immemorial, that is, they were declared for five hours and worked twenty-five or they were not declared at all. Not to mention the other example tabled by Mr Manolis Bebennes, President of the Association of Workers at Piraeus Bank - you know, the one who took the good part of the ATE - who noted that two questions had been tabled to the House on the non-payment of legal overtime during the period of migration of the bank being absorbed. At the same time, the block exemption of the construction and technical works sector from the obligation to post a staff table and the related entries in the integrated information system of the EIA has contributed to the eruption of undeclared work and the building industry, as the audit bodies are unable to effectively carry out their work. As Yannis Tsioulas noted, President of the Panhellenic Federation of Buildings and Related Professionals of Greece to the committees of the Parliament, it is also important that according to Article 39 of the bill, the book on daily papers on construction and technical works is abolished and now the employer will also be obliged to electronically announce the staff employed before each day's work begins. But, as the Citizens' Counsel has pointed out, it is also the fact that under Article 40 the electronic announcement of the voluntary departure of a worker is compulsory, stating that the worker himself has of course agreed, otherwise it does not mean voluntary withdrawal. To date, there has been this abusive practice, which an employer claims has voluntarily departed, without, of course, having happened. At the same time, a positive dynamic on the labour market will also give Article 41, since, in order for businesses to have access to public money and funds, they must respect labour law and have decent working conditions, given that a complete exclusion from public contracts or financing is introduced to employers who are arbitrary in terms of labour legislation. The bill, however, as George Mylonas said, President of the Athens Labour Centre, through Articles 49 to 51, gives the possibility of a quick trial of cases within sixty days for void dismissal, late pay and late wages, clarifys the status of issuing a claim order, arising from due wage benefits, while providing for zero legal notice for issuing a payment order of due wages of up to 20,000 euros. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll be done in just a minute. In this way, the possibility of workers being able to obtain a directly enforceable title, which will allow them alone to issue the title, is founded, to immediately initiate the enforcement procedure against employers who violate their obligation to pay for themselves, avoiding paralysis and abuse. I will not go into the bulk of practically positive working arrangements contained in this bill, nor shall we have heard in this Chamber that these are crumbs, which are unnecessary measures, for low-flight and communal artifacts. Are these protective provisions enough? But not for us, they are an essential component of a truly left-wing policy but, above all, of a legal weapon in the hands of workers to claim their fairness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u344	Thank you, Mrs. Scouffa. Mr Boukoros, then Mrs Antoniou, Mr Kastoris, Mrs Vayonakis, Mr Dimitriadis, will be closed and Mr Antoniou will be closed, who is patiently awaiting and thanking him, who, while he was speaking tomorrow, will speak today.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u345	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, as long as the SYRIZA Government is lifting the fullest of comradeism, I really am shaking the fate of the workers, and I am not saying this in any ironic mood. At one time, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, you have declared an antimonemia, to sign one after another. You once declared tough negotiators to prove yourself, according to recent reports by the German press, the most obedient associates of the lenders. You have once promised a minimum wage of EUR 751 and you are showing yourself to the government that creates the generation of EUR 360. That's why I'm telling you that as long as SYRIZA yells for philosophicalism, workers should be worried. The Minister in her afternoon speech almost required the House to sign up to the improvement that the provisions of the bill we are discussing today. Since the government has brought down the recession and the wages of a few hundred euros, after allowing three hundred thousand pensioners to wait in line for their retirement, it brings provisions that are supposed to protect workers. Our people, ladies and gentlemen, express this very well with a proverb: 'To burn you, Giannis, to flourish you with oil to heal'. That's exactly what the government does. You are talking about unemployment and its declining effect. The previous government in thirty months of 27.9% of unemployment gave you 25.2%. You are celebrating today because it is 22% or 22.5% or 21.9% of unemployment, as if this slight change were of some importance. What you are accusing of is that your policy leads to a stagnation of unemployment, that is to say, the declining of unemployment does not follow the pace of all the international organisations. It is impossible for the government to understand that time is money. Without growth, all that can be shared is poverty. Riches don't share in any way. Why am I saying that? The previous government from June 2012 to January 2015, i.e. in thirty months, has gone a seven-strong development course. He took over the economy to run at a recession of 6.7% and delivered it at a rate of growth of 0.5%. You are not thirty months later, but thirty-two months later - because I must remind you of this - you are running the country with a growth rate of 0.8%. Is there any comparison in the numbers? Investments decreased by 17%. Half the government is working on them and the other half is fighting them. Greek, Halkidiki, Kassiopi and so many others. Without investment, is the wage earner likely to go up? I will only stand by two flagship provisions of the bill. Since I am talking about investment, I should like to say about the building sector, which is now compulsory for staff to be posted to construction projects. But what building are we talking about? 80% of the builders are unemployed. Literally in our country over recent years, there is no stone coming into the stone, no building work being done. The engineers are 30% uninsured, because they are unable with the Katorugalos abortion bill, to pay their insurance contributions, and the current bill does come to disconnect the professional status of insurance. The trade unions and engineers and lawyers, etc. were asking for it. Most likely, all these young scientists will be turned from free professionals who wanted to make their careers and pay their jobs to scientists - employees. That's my assessment. What building are we talking about? I'll give you one clue from my town, Volo. In 2014, in the Register of Manufacturers of Private Building Works were registered sixty manufacturers. Today there are only seventeen registered members. There is no building activity. The SYRIZA colleagues and the Minister are coming and say that we will indeed take this measure of compulsory posting of workers' staff to construction projects. It may sound good, but the result is that the general government's policy has led to the indicators of building activity in Tartaras literally, whether we are talking about large building projects - investment or smaller ones. The other contagious device. To be regarded as harmful to the change or non-payment of wages. Sounds positive. We all want workers' salaries to be paid. What will be the reaction of employers, in fear of their personal property being seized by the government? This is where we need to make something clear. We are bound as a state, not to be one-sided, neither with workers nor with employers. We have to be with business and work. Without business, without business, without factories, are there any workers? Because your bill is like the net that only catches the spiders, but that's not about the big anonymous corporations, it's about small and medium-sized business, what will a small businessman do in front of the fear of confiscating him? The most likely is to reduce the jobs of his business or even more likely to change the full-time contracts and go to flexible forms of employment. Are you not concerned about the fact that you, the SYRIZA Philosophy Government, have more than 50% of all the contracts in your day? It will increase further, because the small and medium-sized employer, fearing his fortune to be seized, will take his measures and that will be paid for by the worker. Of course, we must find those tools which compel the employer to pay the wage in good time, and not all, at EUR 360 - because that is where we have arrived today - but also to see the side effects. The drafts on paper by the government have sabotaged everything. No one has been implemented. You have to understand that you are ruling thirty-two months - the previous government has ruled thirty months - and on the issues of growth rates in the fight against unemployment and in general the course of the real economy, in fact, your results are disappointing. Any positive guidelines for provisions of this bill will drown in the climate of disinvestment, hostility to any business activity. You treat the businessman as a class enemy, even if he is, who doesn't know if his business will work in the morning.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u346	Please finish, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u347	I shall conclude immediately, Mr President. I would therefore call on the government to land in reality, to deal with the real problems and to put its communication policy aside on the lines of propaganda, which has brought nothing good to date. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u348	Thank you, too. Mrs. Antoniou has the floor for seven minutes. Based on my calculations, we'll be about 12:15 in the evening.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u349	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, as we are heading towards the Thessaloniki International Exhibition and while Mr Tsipras' basket of false promises has been empty, especially after the narrative and the pan-Hellenic exams that have been doubled, the SYRIZA - ANEL government is currently setting up its next communication show with the multi-advertised bill of Labour and Social Security, which is supposed to provide solutions to the real problems of the workers, the pensioners and the unemployed. At a time when the government is dismantling the middle class with overtaxation and the atrocities of insurance contributions, while free professionals are unable to keep their shops open and where our young scientists are leaving abroad, while the Katrugalou law is cutting off pensions, while Mr. Flaburyris says that we are not making use of the money on the Yunger package, because the relevant ministry has not been able to do business at the same time, ladies and gentlemen, at the same time, the government today brings a bill that does not have to offer any solution to the enormous problems of the Greek citizens and is aiming, in particular, at obtaining double shifts, at the same time, ladies and gentlemen, a bill that has no solution to the enormous problems of the Greek citizens. Nineteen months after the vote of Law No.4387/2016, the government is trying with another bill, to limit the enormous and irreparable damage the Katrugalou law has caused to the insurance system of the country. I directly ask the relevant government ministers. With which of the 118 articles of today's bill, gentlemen of the government, do you find a solution to the hundreds of twenty-nine thousand pensioners who are in vain waiting to receive their supplementary pension? As of 1 January 2015, you have a supplementary pension, Minister. Why, then, do you deprive of the hundred and twenty - nine thousand people of their labor and retirement? What do you have to say about the new generation of pensioners of EUR 185 that you created and then instructed the relevant branches to stop issuing pensions of EUR 185 in order not to show the merciful and merciful results of your policies until the Thessaloniki Fair? In addition, the complaint by the President of the IKA at the hearing says it all. What do you have to say to the new generation of part-time workers of EUR 360? Your creation and this as well as the unprecedented, as has been said by many colleagues, that flexible forms of employment and part-time work are now more than full-time, according to official figures from the 'ERGAN' system, I think, around 54%. And, of course, the hardest question. What you have to say to the hundreds of thousands of unemployed and young scientists who go abroad to find work, when thousands of jobs and wages have been lost because of your inertia and incompetence from not taking advantage of either the Yunger package or the ESDP package. These are the real questions and the open wounds of your political choices that torture thousands of pensioners, workers and unemployed. Instead of trying to heal them, it seems that this bill creates others, as you attempt hidden, to pass new pension reductions and new increases in insurance contributions. With Article 17, you confirm the introduction of the 0.45% supplementary rate, which leads to reductions in supplementary pensions from 21% to about 40% for supplementary pensions up to 31-12-2014. Despite these dramatic reductions, as I mentioned earlier, you do not solve the problem of the hundreds of twenty-nine thousand supplementary pensions left on the shelf as of 1 January 2015, and it seems that they are now ‘free’, just because you have not issued, it says, the mathematical type of calculation of the pension section after 1 January 2015. Also under Article 21, you are increasing contributions to civil servants from the Equity Fund, as it is laid down that the monthly reservation of the Equity Fund is increased from 4% to 4.5% on pensions, resulting in a corresponding reduction in remuneration. Instead of reducing contributions, you come and increase them. Indicative, however, of how you understand the public administration and the control you want to have on it in order always to serve your micro-party purposes is the provision of Article 12. Nineteen months after the adoption of the Katrugalou Act, Law No.4387, there is no organisational chart in the ECA, nor of course has the relevant presidential decree been issued. Instead, you are now bringing the provision of Article 12, which gives the Minister for Labour and Social Security a broad authority to decide on everything in the ECA, on the heads, on the heads of directors and on the life of about eight thousand eight hundred employees in the ECA, without any assessment and any transparency. Your abhorrence in these concepts is known. Unfortunately, the example of absolute centralism does not only meet in this bill. The same tactic and the same superpowers where the Minister decides for everything uncontrollable, other government ministers have followed it to newly established and non-institutional. It is a regulation that is extremely unconstitutional, as these issues are only regulated by the adoption of a Presidential Decree. So at last bring in the organogram of EVA and withdraw this provocative provision. In conclusion, I would like to stress that, despite any fragmentary arrangements in the right direction, this bill, unfortunately, does not meet the expectations created by the government, nor does it of course provide solutions to the key problems of pensioners, workers and the unemployed, who are anxiously awaiting the reduction of their burdens and the creation of new and decently paid jobs. It is not enough to "sufficient" in the law of Katrugalo, no matter what it is. The Greek society needs a deep and radical reform of the insurance system on new solid bases based primarily on the competitivity and viability of the system and such a deep reform can only be implemented by a determined and bold reformist government, which will have knowledge and believe in the free market and its rules. A government that will know how to do business plan, a government that, by reducing business taxation and improving the investment environment, will be able to create new jobs, well paid, work. Only in this way will it be possible to support the country's insurance system, ladies and gentlemen, and to combat the Brain drain at its base. The Greek society is primarily in need of a major political change. And that, ladies and gentlemen, is - believe me - before the gates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u350	Thank you, Mrs. Antonio. Mr. Castore, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u351	Ladies and gentlemen, we are all aware that one of the major victims of recent years in our country is the employment relations and conquests of workers, who have been "explored" by one of the previous governments. And that's not just because of the memorials. Labour deregulation and the decline in labour rights have long begun in developed Europe. It is simply in our country with the Memorandums and the Committee are trying to establish themselves as the sad and tragic rule. Anti-Government practices are evident to have an ideological mark, which he hears in the name of neoliberalism. In the name of this ideology, there are so-called 'zero-hour contracts' in Britain, where the employer can employ the worker for as many hours as he wants and whenever he judges. In the name of this ideology, in Germany of the surpluses, full-time jobs have fallen to 57% of the total from 82.5% at the beginning of 2000, while new flexible forms of employment, namely fixed-term contracts, part-time work, temporary work, etc., have been up to 43% of the 17% which was early in 2000, with seven million people being paid up up to EUR 450 per month - I repeat, in Germany of the surpluses. In the name of this ideology, our Civic Opposition - and not only the Civic - is sworn to us for a left-wing idealism, whenever we defend collective bargaining. In the name of this ideology it would continue, if the Greek people did not prevent it from voting, to unblock the labour market in favour of employers and at the expense of workers. In the name of this ideology it would turn our country into a vast construction site - perhaps - as it was saying, but with flexible impoverished workers. Our ideology is on the reverse of neoliberalism. Our ideology dictates an unnegotiable principle, which says that the production of wealth cannot be carried out at the expense of those producing it, that no growth can be described as such if the workers who contribute to it do not have decent wages and full working and insurance rights. This principle we are trying to defend with all our forces for not only the workers in our country, but also for the workers of Europe and for the present and future. In this direction, this draft law is in progress. No one claims to be coming to replace everything that has been wasted in recent years. For them, there will still be a struggle, a multi-front race that will be long. We claim it's another step for our strategic goal. Another development model, a sustainable and socially fair model of development that will take us out of the crisis and lead us to the future that we dream of. I do not want to mention why we have to move forward - step by step and not leap. It's known to all of us in here why. But why we need to take these steps now? Those who are experiencing the phenomenon of black labour or the unpaid work that has taken tragic proportions, which is a tragedy for tens of thousands of families in our country, know it better. They know better - it is certain - that the consequent employers are trying to compete on an inequality basis with those who are inconsistent with labour law infringements and fundamental morality. It is also certain that those who do not vote for this bill will do so either by neoliberal idealism or by obsession with "here and now" or "all or nothing". I will be voting in favour of the bill, because apart from the numbers, I know a lot of people behind the figures. I know their personal dramatic stories. With many of them we had met on the streets of the trade unions, where we knew that small victories too could make a big difference. Mr. Dendias said just now that he is not concerned with the bill and its articles, because they are insignificant and indifferent. He said it by word. Are the problems of the supermarkets of "Karypidis" in northern Greece, which have been unpaid for two years? Is it insignificant and indifferent to the problem of tens of thousands of children and women working in tourist areas, either as cleaners or as waiters? And what's important to Mr. Teddy and your resignation? Are the orders of the International Monetary Fund and Mr. Shoeble? I would like to end, Mr President, with one more comment. The previous law we passed before the House closed was the law on primary care. There Mr. Adonis Georgiadis, the Vice President of your resignation, apologized to the doctors of the PEDY who fired, because he couldn't help but apologize. Now what's he gonna do? Will he apologize to the millions of unemployed and the millions of young children who work without insurance? No matter what he apologizes for, no one will believe you, because he knows that if you return to the rule of the country, you will continue to do the same and worse. That's why he won't give you that chance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u352	Thank you, too, actually. There are three speakers left to conclude: Mrs Vagonakis, Mr Dimitriadis and Mr Antoniou. Mrs. Vagonakis, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u353	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] The need to rebuild a framework for the protection of work and the healing of the wounds left by the deregulation of the labour market in Greek society is one of the main objectives for the rest of the government. This objective is also served by the provisions of today's bill, in an effort to secure employment rights, to gradually consolidate working normality and facilitate access for all to decent working conditions, and it is a pity, although it is reasonable, that in such an important bill, the criticism of counter-population should be limited to communications crowns, such as those we have heard. ‘Line-flying Legislation’, ‘Low-flight Legislation’, etc. We heard them before. It makes sense, because a portion of the Opposition fails to understand that growth and return to normality passes through the recovery of work and social cohesion. What is not reasonable and is regrettable and dangerous is the fact that another piece of Anti-Population, what is, in particular, expressed by the New Democracy, wants the working middle ages and prefers the deregulation of the labour market as a path out of the crisis, that is, this path that the country followed faithfully by the 2015 elections, when New Democracy and PASOK handed over to 27% of the record market. Two and a half years later, now that signs of economic recovery and unemployment are being eradicated, which is expected to fall below 20% in 2018, are now being called upon to repeat the criminal errors of the past. We're not doing you the favor. It is enough that this bill earns the support of workers' representatives and is treated positively by institutions and citizens and because I do not like to speak with appreciation, I record facts. With the bill, we make use of financial instruments to support the APRC with a budget of EUR 7.6 million for control programmes, upgrade information services and legal advice to employees and training programmes for inspectors. In our view, it is important for the control mechanisms to have tools. That is what we are legislating today, provisions providing inspectors with facilities and opportunities for workers to find allies in claiming dignity. The obligation of those who are in the workplace during the audits of the APRC is also laid down to display a police identity, as many formerly feared employees declared their insurance colleagues' name, thereby binding the hands of the auditors. It is intended to impose administrative penalties on employers or third parties which refuse labour inspectors access or access to data. While for those who violate labour law provisions, temporary or permanent cessation of the business is provided for and prohibition of access to public contracts or financing. In addition, each employer will be required to electronically announce legal overtime, while the daily papers book on building and technical works is deleted. The employer will now be obliged to electronically announce the staff employed before the start of the shift. We must say here that these provisions are not the result of obsession or bureaucratic mania. On the contrary, as recent audits of the EIA show in the field of banks and other large businesses, unpaid overtime rises, while the manuscript of unprecedented buildings probably helped rather than combat pathogens. It is incomprehensible in 2017 that we should not seek electronic recording, even when the Minister has stressed, that there are and that technical solutions will be put in place to facilitate employers in the process. Transparency and protection of workers during the negotiation phase with employers is also enhanced, and the position of workers is strengthened against the illegal practice of non-payment or late payment of wages. In particular, the regulation adopted in July on the delay in the payment of accruals, which is equivalent to a unilaterally harmful change in working conditions, goes on targeted, first unemployment benefit from the very next day, thus giving a solution to the issue of biopoliticism and, secondly, the rapid resolution of disputes within sixty days so that the worker will soon have a judicial decision and compensation. In addition, however, we are introducing provisions for speeding up social reform, more rapid awarding of pensions and the immunisation of the rights of disabled people, giving new impetus and impetus to social policy. In particular, the question of calculating the pension is resolved, those who did not have, or have, a limited period of insurance in the period from 1-1-2002 onwards. It restores the method of calculating supplementary pensions in order to take account of all contributions and not part of them. Provisions are abolished, providing that if the State had not paid a pension over three years after the application for a pension for those years, no retroactive pension amounts were paid. The obligation to pay insurance contributions shall be abolished for lawyers and engineers by enrolling them in the TEI or in the Bar Associations. Contributions will be paid at the beginning of their business. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. For farmers too, there is provision for the possibility of the acquisition of fictitious insurance against a low price, which was previously calculated by the first insurance class. Now the take-over fee is about 82 euros a month. Finally, the term of office of the staff member at the Social Welfare Centre and the Blind Education and Rehabilitation Centre shall be extended to cover needs and ensure their proper functioning until the establishment of lists of assistant staff appointments. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to believe that by quoting and analysing several provisions of the bill, it is understood that a protection net for citizens and workers is being set up, solving problems of time. I know that there are differences between the different wings of the House, but this bill works in favour of the world of work and the biopale, improving human lives. This cannot be avoided, distorted or underestimated. It can only unite for the good of the country and the workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u354	Thank you, too. Mr. Dimitriadis has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u355	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is an exercise in the direction that we are firmly targeting and is about the core of our political account, which is based on two major sections. The first concerns the protection of democratic rights and therefore the rights of the world of work and social rights. The second section concerns the protection of public wealth and public space, but it is not this draft law. We are therefore in the closed core of our efforts. We are seeking to protect the rights and enlargement of the Union, with the aim of improving critical parameters of the daily lives of workers such as the stress of unpaid work, undeclared work and the regularity of social security. Is there a problem with work and wages? We've heard a lot. Let us look at a few examples. Let's see some useful and undeniable evidence and the numbers talk a little bit. In New Democracy and the Samara government, the employed have always been reduced during ELSTAT by over two hundred thousand. In the first seven months of 2017, according to "ERGANI", we have increased jobs and the creation of new jobs by two hundred and sixty-three thousand people. Unemployment in 2014 reached 27% and we are being renounced by the same people who took it off. We brought unemployment to 21.7% at the levels that were in place before 2012, and we continue with methodicity and faith in our efforts. In 2012, too, by legislation, with an act of Ministerial Council, the minimum wage fell to EUR 586 and to EUR 510 for young people. At 586 the minimum wage for full-time was abolished, even from the average wage for part-time work. We are being indicted for low wages, the same ones who have disappeared from them, now extinguishing hypocrisy on the streets impassable. In November 2011, the average wage for parttime employment was EUR 601 against the government of Papademos. In November 2014, the average wage for parttime work was EUR 400. We had a cut in the wage for parttime work by 201 euros. It is this wage, which those who have shaped it, that is to say today they are denounced us to this end. Only in the government of Samara the average part-time wage was reduced by EUR 163. The remuneration in addition to the dependent per employee, according to ELSTAT, in 2012 was at the minus 3% for all sectors of economic activity. 2013 was at minus 7.5%. In 2016, however, it was in plus 0.8%. We had an increase of 0.8% per employee. Also seven out of ten branches of economic activity have an increase in wages in the first quarter of 2017 - the year we are now spending, namely - in relation to that in the quarter of 2016, to which we have already had an increase. So the numbers just tell the truth. Coming back to the bill, it should be stressed that secondary issues related to social security are dealt with and that long-term workers' problems are solved. At the same time - and thirdly - we also have a set of provisions which facilitate the full and equal participation of disabled people in the country's social, economic and political life. It is a central priority of our work to combat job-related infractions. This commitment is implemented on the basis of three priorities. Firstly, strengthening control mechanisms and, in particular, the EIA. Secondly, aiming at financial tools for protecting labour rights and thirdly, improving the existing institutional framework for combating unpaid, undeclared and alleged work. In the case of undeclared and implied work, a temporary or even permanent interruption of the undertaking is necessary in the event of continuous infringements of labour law. The employer is obliged to register legally overtime in the ERGAN system. An electronic announcement of the voluntary departure of the worker is made and the non-compliance with labour law does not allow the breacher access to public money. In the case of unpaid work, a payment order for due wages is to be issued, the cost of the trial for workers is to be reduced, a short judgment is to be given for this reason within sixty days, it is foreseen that the unemployed who considers the unilateral change in working conditions to be dismissal will be able to receive an unemployment benefit immediately. In addition, this draft law provides for arrangements for the fullest implementation of the provisions of the Insurance Reform and for certain categories of insurance to be resolved. Some of these basics are that the obligation of engineers and lawyers to pay insurance contributions is abolished only because of their registration at TEIs and lawyers but are obliged to pay only at the start of their business. An invalidity pension shall be extended in cases where this is necessary until the opinion is finalised in the CEPR. The question of the non-operation of the committees to date for the designation of accidents, such as PPC, is being resolved because the operation of these committees had been stopped in 2012. On the issue of the rights of people with disabilities, the bill aims to strengthen the perception of disability as a social issue. It contains arrangements that affect trade with public and private entities, set out criteria for the production of products and the provision of services from the point of view of disabled persons, contribute to information and create new educational modules. Colleagues and colleagues, we support and broaden the rights of the world of work and disability in a more positive perspective. We are responding to the devaluation and impairment of labour, which neoliberalism requires to secure their own interests towards the dominant blocs. We are positively and creatively shaping the huge problems that the crisis of the period has accumulated in both the market and the work. Fair, paid and dignified work is an important development aspect in our productive project, which, by self-renunciation, we are implementing and stepping up - we will conclude despite the opposite ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u356	Thank you, Mr Demetriades. Mr Antoniou has the floor to close the sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u357	Thank you, Mr President. Since I am the last person to close today's debate, Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, in today's debate and in the committees which preceded the analysis of the current draft law of the Ministry of Labour, we are seeing an opposition - and I am referring above all to the New Democracy - slain, repelled and surprised. If I judge from the press friendly reports, which until yesterday he wondered whether or not this bill had the approval of the institutions, and whether or not I judge their positions in plenary today, according to what is commonly said, they were throwing the ball in the platform! They made no reference to the positive provisions of today's bill and talked about all others except the bill. This is because, today, we are debating a positive draft law on the world of work, which, with a set of positive interventions, strengthens and extends the rights of workers, who have been lost because of the neutral political choices of the previous governments, and especially during the period after the country's entry into the constellation of the memoranda to which, I would remind you, you have put us. The provisions on the implementation of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities facilitate the participation of our fellow citizens with disabilities in the country's social, economic and political life. No social exclusion is acceptable anymore. That is why the administrative bodies are also obliged to design appropriate policies to ensure accessibility for everyone and to provide supportive technology and personal assistance measures. By converting the Social Works Association to a legal person governed by public law, the implementation of social policy programmes by a body of accredited and reliable to support vulnerable social groups to return to the production process. The draft also regulates the more rapid award of the main, supplementary and one-off benefits. It solves questions of administrative nature of social security institutions and individual insurance issues of particular categories. Special professional charges such as farmers, engineers, lawyers, the mentally ill, benefit from the drafting of the bill. In particular, farmers benefit, because they will be able to buy off fictitious years at a very low price. Engineers and lawyers also benefit because their insurance is disconnected from their professional status and will henceforth pay insurance contributions from the start of their business and for as long as it lasts. Finally, the mental illnesses benefit, since they will be able to work without having a reduction in their pension. The question of the competence of the characterisation of accidents at work, which had led to the accumulation of outstanding cases since 2012, is also resolved. It is also very important that the question of calculating the pension is resolved, for those who had no or limited periods of insurance from 1-1-2002 until today. It is foreseen that where no insurance period arises from at least five years from 1-1-2002 until the commencement of a pension, then five years are looking for years before 2002. Since 2021, the insurance period sought before 2002 may be up to 10 years. The bill protects workers from undeclared, uninsured and uninsured work. In constant contact and cooperation with the workers' unions, trade unions and institutions, we lay the foundations for better working conditions, without social inequality and the abuse of workers' rights, because until now the unpaid worker has been locked into a company that did not pay him, because there was a very negative case law which encroached on the worker on long-term judicial adventures until his case had been decided, without any compensation or unemployment allowance in the meantime. Thousands are the people who in the years of the crisis have faced a major biopolitic problem because of the indifference of the previous governments, to intervene in this injustice. Non-paid employment is now a unilateral change and there is the possibility for the worker to claim his allowance from the very next day, i.e. to be able to receive the unemployment benefit. In order to work more effectively in the fight against undeclared and reported work, the Labour Inspectorate is being strengthened. It is the government's choice, the money saved through the NRP, to provide for quality controls which will henceforth be carried out in areas of high infraction and to upgrade information services and legal advice to workers. But we don't stop here. We're not resting. Other initiatives and legislative interventions will be followed until the wounds that have arisen from the exercise of your own political choices, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy and of PASOK are healed. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u358	Thank you, Mr. Antoniou. Colleagues, the Minutes of Tuesday 27 June 2017, Thursday 29 June 2017, Friday 30 June 2017, Monday 3 July 2017, Tuesday 4 July 2017, Thursday 6 July 2017 and Friday 7 July 2017 have been distributed and the House is asking whether it will ratify them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u359	The minutes of Tuesday 27 June 2017, Thursday 29 June 2017, Friday 30 June 2017, Monday 3 July 2017, Tuesday 4 July 2017, Thursday 6 July 2017 and Friday 7 July 2017 were validated. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-06-S1-commons.u360	The meeting for Thursday, September 7, 2017, at 9.30', on the subject of the House's work, continued discussion and vote on the principle of Articles and the entire draft law of the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity: "Retirement regulations and other insurance provisions, strengthening the protection of workers, rights of persons with disabilities and other provisions".
