ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-20-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's 19-1-2017 authorisation, the minutes of the NH's meeting, Thursday 19 January 2017, with regard to the vote on the entire draft law: ‘Compulsory audit of the annual and consolidated financial statements, public supervision over the audit work and other provisions’.]] I have the honour to inform the House of the updated Questions of Monday 23 January 2017. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 347/16-1-2017 by MP Magnesia of New Democracy Mr Christos Boukorous to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport on the rationalisation of the railways of Volos - Larissa and Larissa - Thessaloniki. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 352/16-1-2017 by Evia MP of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nicholas Michou to the Minister of the Interior on the conduct of a thorough inquiry into the extensive fires in Chios, Evia and Thassos. 3. The 354/17-1-2017 topical question by MP Achaias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Theodoros Papatheodorou to the Minister of Migration Policy about the waste and the unorganised management of the refugee. 4. The 360/17-1-2017 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, concerning the coverage of the vacancies of teachers at the Moors High School of the Municipality of Phaistos. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 346/16-1-2017 by MP Kilkis of New Democracy Mr Georgiou Georgios Georgios Georgiodas to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the delay in the damage assessments by ELGA in Kilkis Prefecture. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 353/16-1-2017 by MP II of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Panagiotarou to the Minister of Foreign Affairs about the resurrected action of Turkish agents and their representatives in Thrace. 3. The 327/10-1-2017 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Kingdom Kegeroglou to the Minister of Economy and Development about the need for sustainable regulation of red housing loans. 4. The 320/9-1-2017 topical question by MP Florin of the New Democracy Mr.Ioannis Antoniadis to the Minister of Economy and Development on the progress of the projects and studies on the 5th EPA (ESDP) in the Prefecture of Florina. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question and application under number 1996/90/14-12-2016 by MP Laconia of the New Republic Mr Athanasios Davakis to the Minister of National Defence concerning estimates of revenue from the exploitation of real estate by the Armed Forces. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The number 2117/100/19-12-2016 question and application for the submission of documents by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport concerning the delay in the completion of the project "Panamomomos - Eanthi". 3. The question asked by MP Attica of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Friday Christophilopoulos to the Minister of Finance about excise duty on wine. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS From today's issue today, only three topical questions will be discussed, and the following will not be discussed: The fifth, under number 362/17-1-2017, topical question by the Independent MEP, Mr. Iasonos Fotellas to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, concerning the timetable for the implementation of the Pierro dam - Intervening in the Achaias Prefecture due to the absence of the Minister responsible, Mr. Spirtzi abroad. As the Special Secretary of the Government informs us, they will also not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the relevant ministers and will be redefined for discussion the following topical questions: The first, with number 356/17-1-2017, a top-stage question from the Second Vice President of the Parliament and MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Georgiou Borden to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, regarding the rename of the Department of Environmental and Natural Resources of the University of Patras, based in Agrinio, in a Department of Environmental Engineering. The seventh under number 328/10-1-2017 topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, concerning the education of applicants. These topical questions will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Mr Gavroglou. Cause of the blockage, workload. Nor will the second question, number 344/16-1-2017, be discussed in the context of the first cycle of the New Democracy Member of Parliament, Mrs. Catherine Papakostas - Ironopoulou, to the Minister of Health, on the discontent of citizens with the EEA and public health care. The fourth question, with number 359/16-1-2017, will still not be discussed in the second question of the Member of Parliament, Aetolokarnania, of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Moraitis, to the Minister of Health, concerning the payment of workers clearers to the services of the General Hospital of Artas because of the obstruction of the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Polakis. Cause, workload. Nor will the fifth be discussed under number 358/17-1-2017, a top-level question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on measures for the destruction of agricultural crops in areas of Crete due to snowfall and ice. Nor will the second question, with number 351/16-1-2017, be discussed in a timely manner by the Member of the Messinia People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Dimitrios Koukoutsis, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the abolition of the Kalamata Olive PDO. We will not discuss the third with number 348/16-1-2017 a top-cycle question from the MP Argolida of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMMAR Mr.Ioannis Maniotis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the resumption of the extension of the management plan for vegetarians that directly jeopardise the viability of the Greek seas. These topical questions will not be discussed because of an impediment by the Minister for Rural Development and Food, Mr Apostle. Because the Minister is outside Athens. Nor will the sixth be discussed under number 319/9-1-2017, a topical question by the Member of Parliament, Evros, New Democracy, Anastasios Purchas, on the degradation - abolition of the Tycheros Border Guard section in the Prefecture of Evros. No debate will be held, yet, with No 8/3-10-2016 question by the Independent MEP, Mr. Efstathiou (Stathia) Panagoulis, about beatings and chemicals that the Government teaches us what democracy means. These topical questions will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister of the Interior, Mr. Toska. Because of this, unsuccessful liabilities. Finally, the first question under number 345/16-1-2017 will not be discussed in the context of a topical question by the Member of Parliament, Mr Spyridonos - Adonidos Georgiadis, to the Minister of Finance, on mismanagement issues in the Greek Defence Systems (ESA), due to the impediment of the Minister of Finance, Mr Tsakalotos. Because of that, workload. The fourth question, with number 355/17-1-2017, will be discussed now, in the context of the first cycle of the MP Irakli of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Vassilios Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the delay of public works programmes for two hundred and seventy-four municipalities and complaints on the management of programmes already implemented in refugee hosting centres. The current question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Mrs Antonopoulou. Here, Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-20-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, the unemployment figures - despite any seasonal or non-seasonal declines - show, unfortunately, that the problem remains too great. Moreover, the real economy is unable to produce real jobs, real quality jobs. Consequently, the programmes of either the OAED or the voluntary work programmes have a special role, at least as the last option of the unemployed, in order to find employment and support their families. In this sense, I think we should not have time and delay for any reason, when we have programmes financed by the European Social Fund, which are complete and what remains is to be declared. You told me that in November the notice would come out and the unemployed would be able to apply. But so far, isn't that so? What for? We would like an answer to that. We would like you to tell us what is envisaged for the programme of the two hundred and seventy-four municipalities for twenty-three thousand unemployed and, of course, if, after that, a new programme of social benefits is followed up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-20-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, too. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-20-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Mr Kegeroglu, for your question. I thought there would be a second question. Maybe in your dentistry we'll come to this. So let me start by saying that, in fact, unemployment is still a major problem. It hits almost every social layer and too many, thousands of families. But we must also record that in the last two years we have seen a steady fall in unemployment. Since 26% we have been at 23% today. That is how we have achieved, in any case, in difficult economic conditions, to be able to work with the private sector, because these jobs have come out of the private sector. The "ERGANI", as you know, records that this year, within 2016, a hundred and thirty-six thousand net positions were created for a hundred thirty-six thousand families. The big problem we have is, unfortunately, the deregulation of the labour market is still creating part-time and rotating jobs. So our weight as a Ministry of Labour falls into both categories. On the one hand, unemployment is falling, and on the other hand, full-time jobs are growing. In this context, therefore, the framework is very important - and I will agree with you - because for eight months, not five as it was in the past - it marks the workers who are the beneficiaries of the programme, what is normality. Full work on the one hand and, on the other, will be able to guarantee employment rights. I now come to the issue of the delay that you have said. As you know, public work, Mr Kegeroglu, has now changed. One of the changes and one of the problems we have seen in the past - and I imagine you will remember it too - is that the municipalities have submitted jobs, but not projects, which were specifically implemented. So in many cases there were no proper locations. Today, then, we have a platform where municipalities must make the advancement, deposit the works and services they offer in the local society and link these projects to the posts in which they are recruited. [[The end of the speaking time of Mrs. Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] You will allow me one more minute, Mr President. As far as the two hundred and seventy-four municipalities are concerned, our cooperation with them began in October. However, very specific issues have been raised, which unfortunately - as you say - brought us a delay of two months. However, I can answer today that, after very good cooperation we have had, this week, the invitation to the unemployed from the OAED will come from within the OAED, having precisely set the standards that all the programmes must have, so that we can monitor them online and so that we can check. So within the week he comes, next week, the records of the unemployed begin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-20-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, too. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-20-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, I would like to comment on the unemployment figures and remind you that in order to produce jobs and actually reduce unemployment, what needs to be done is to increase GDP. As your economists and your partners say, in order for there to be fifty thousand jobs, GDP must be increased by 3.5%. This has not been the case. In any case, however, let us not stick to arithmetics and catch different seasons, that is, a winter, a summer, to show a fall in unemployment. The unemployed are aware of the difficulties they cannot find employment. The issue for us is not to argue whether you received unemployment at 24.5% or 28%, how much you said. The problem is that today, as I have told you, the real economy is unable to produce real jobs. We shall therefore proceed with the use of the programmes. You told me it would start in November. On the basis of this commitment, I ask you. It is good that, even next week, there will be a start on recording the unemployed who will join the programme. I must point out, however, that the corresponding period of two years that you have referred to, unfortunately, has not only continued to increase, as in previous years, part-time work, but started a reverse course for pay. Unfortunately 33%, according to business statements - the situation is much worse in fact - it gets less than 500 to 600 euros as a reward. Unfortunately, they increased by twenty thousand people in the category of part-time work, increased by twenty thousand, who are being paid EUR 500 for last year's 600 euros. Or, to tell you otherwise, those rewarded with 600 euros were reduced. They left this category and went to the bottom. The same happened with the above category, according to your own figures. We therefore have numerically, with hourly work, with rotating work, with part-time work, a relative increase in people who have employment - we are not now saying what the category of employment is - but, unfortunately, with regard to wages and real jobs, at least to the extent that there would be triumphs in this regard. That is why I say that there is the possibility of triggering all programmes. They do not solve the problem, but they give opportunities. Is there going to be a new Joint Work Programme? It's a question. I come to the second question, which has been tabled to you in writing and which you were wondering about: they saw the light of publicity in the previous period of complaints - even from Mr Vitsa, Deputy Minister of National Defence - in relation to the employment of workers from the Social Work Programme envisaged for hospitality centres. These workers are not available in the way they should or are not present - I have heard things - in their work. We also have workers who refer to hosting centres that have been closed, to hosting centres that are not working to renovate. It is a question that you must answer, since it has taken such proportions and has been mentioned by the Minister of Government. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-20-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, too. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-20-S1-commons.u8	To answer fully, I would like about ten minutes, because you have, Mr Kegeroglu, put too many issues. I will briefly try to submit the answers to your questions. Firstly, we agree on GDP growth. It is necessary to create more and more employment opportunities for Greek workers and the unemployed. What has been recorded, however, is that we have 30 000 net new jobs in the period December to January, Mr Kegeroglu. It's not a seasonal increase. In time, we had an increase of two hundred and sixty thousand jobs. The net result, therefore, that the private sector created is thirty - six thousand jobs. That's scientifically explained. These jobs are created in the service sector. While, in the heavy industry, we have a lot of machinery and a few workers, in these kinds of activities we have, for every 1% of GDP that is growing, a much larger number of people to be hired. I imagine it's understandable. I come to the question of unemployment. We're saying we don't get the numbers. It is, however, good to allow the figures to say a story which is not falsified either by the means or by anyone else. Unemployment was 25.9% in January 2015. Today, according to the latest statistics we have, it's 22.3%. But because I'm counting all the time, that's why I'm telling you it's down to 23%. We are not celebrating, we are not going to go out to the channels or to the House to say 'what we have achieved' because, yes, a hundred and thirty-six thousand unemployed have found a job, but from behind, there are tens of thousands of families still affected by unemployment. On the very important issue of public work, which you mentioned, I will agree with you. We are making every effort to follow another programme. I want to devote the rest of my time to answer you. I would ask you, Mr President, to give me a minute more time to respond. As you know, socially beneficial work for hospitality centers was an extraordinary program. It's not one of the usual programs we make. So, in cooperation with the Ministry of Migration Policy, the positions and needs that existed in March 2016 were recorded in the centers. So we are gradually coming to see - fortunately and we are all pleased about this - reducing the flow of refugees. They were therefore recruited using the normal procedure of the eight months, which is the money of the ESDP, so that we as the Ministry of Labour too can help the country in the situation and the problem it has faced. These needs have been reduced. But, as the mayors themselves say, Mr Kegeroglu, the average placements within hospitality centres are around 63% - 65%. Those who do not work in hospitality centres often serve needs that have arisen, precisely because of the flows we have because of the refugee. As far as Ritsona is concerned, the Municipality of Chalkida contacted us yesterday that 20% work and others sit, rejects it vertically. 55% is in refugee camps. For example, I will read you another statement - a reply from the Municipality of Larissai. The vice mayor of social policy says: "Workers are not missing. Fifty employees from ninety, i.e. over 50% of the employees are located in the hospitality centre in Koutsochocheros. So we have to ask ourselves whether or not the other fifteen who are stationed and working in the social grocery store and in the warehouse where the clothes are distributed to the refugees are, the six..." etc. There it begins to list where the others are located. So to clarify this misinformation too, I tell you that we are in constant contact with the municipalities. We take from them a record that gives us exactly where they are located so that problems do not arise in the future. We're watching it closely. If the media or anyone else who asks these questions was kind enough to come and ask us a question either through parliamentary control, as is very right today or in the Ministry where our doors are open, we would have answered it and not all this paraphilis would have been created. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-20-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, too. We move to the third with number 350/16-1-2017 a top-level question from the MEP Evia of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Nicholas Michou to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights about the "provoking burning of the Greek flag on live television". Here, Mr. Micho, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-20-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, this is not so topical, but in fact it will always be timely because even the day before yesterday in Veroia we had another burning. On the evening of November 17, 2016, groups of so-called self-determinationists, who had already taken over the building Gine of the Polytechnic and experienced numerous incidents and discernible damage, burned to live transmission in a provocative way and with the full tolerance of the state, as expressed by the institutions of order, the Greek flag along with public property (installations, strands, equipment, chairs, tables, etc.) The polytechnics used to create roadblocks. For the multitude of offences (equivocally felony and delinquency) committed during the course of the incidents, none of the alleged state officials and organs did the dictated by the Constitution and the Code of Criminal Procedure, which, as we know, command not only the assurance of persuasiveness, but also the self-determination of the offenders with or without an indictment within and outside the Foundation. So I ask you: What has been done to restore order and law, as the above acts, as illustrated in detail by the annexes presented and the photographs, prove a lot of crimes (distinguished damage, insult of symbols, etc.!??????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-20-S1-commons.u11	The Minister will answer Mr. Kontonis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-20-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is an interesting time when this debate is taking place at the National Representation, because a few days ago, in an organised and provocative way, members and MPs of the party who asks the question today, violated the law by entering a school, prejudicing teachers, threatening and exalting other citizens. I am starting with this, Mr President, in order to understand all, but above all with the citizens who are following today's debate how they understand the law and the application of the law the Golden Dawn Party that is currently asking the question and we are obliged to answer it. It understands the application of the laws on a case-by-case basis. They can illegalise themselves whenever they want, for whatever reason they want, to prejudice and to unfair citizens and to issues that they consider to be the case, the violation of the laws, in other provisions, to be the guardian of the laws, must be shown there. In this way, however, it is understood that your party neither respects the laws nor seeks to implement the laws. Because if you were to respect the laws, you would respect their totality and not make a choice, you would not commit wrongful acts by system, as was the case in the last case, where you violated provisions of the Criminal Code and the rules of operation of a school. As far as the matter you're asking me is concerned, who told you that state institutions, police authorities in this case and then the public prosecutors did not do their duty? It is well known by the press that thirteen people were arrested, which were immediately referred to the prosecutor. One of them was underage and the interrogation has already been completed. Where do you get that information from? I would like to tell you, first of all, that the organised state did what it had to do. Immediately arrested those who were destroying other types of unfair acts were referred to the prosecutor and the main interrogation has been completed. But what I am coming back to is the following. Mr President, it is a problem for democracy itself that some understand the implementation of the law, as they think it is, because democracy is based on the law, isotope and patriotism of the Greeks when they are in danger. Therefore, anyone here who invokes the law should respect it first, Mr Colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-20-S1-commons.u13	Thank you very much. Mr. Micho, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-20-S1-commons.u14	After you gave me the opportunity to answer and that is why I will do so, Minister. First there was nothing criminal from the Piraeus Police Department about what happened. If you want, put the video with all the phase that took place the other day, with my colleague and competitor, Mr. Rabbit, to see what was said, what this person said. Bring the parents who were there who had nothing to do with the area. They were movers, and they had only gone to create a doro. Let's see their names, 'cause we know them. Bring them here, if you want, and post the video, let's all see it, so we can see what criminality happened there. As to what you're saying we're using situations, do you want me to remind you of your supporters, the robber of Paros, the terrorist, your supporter? He was saying on the Internet to support SYRIZA. You've got two yards and two stations. The day before yesterday, your supporters, at the opening of our office in Veroia, accompanied by the police, a hundred and fifty people went to 5 a.m. and broke the offices and then burned the Greek flag, the so-called travelers and there in Veroia - indignant citizens against the Golden Dawn. I want to remind you of another case of your own supporter and SYRIZA, Mrs Gelle Callinikos, Mayor of Gadus. Except that it hurt her that the F-16s were flying over the island - and I have the documentaries here from the newspapers - when she had gone and held in the city hall of Gaydos, because the ships on the line were not operating the routes as she should have, she had downloaded the Greek flag from the web and had taken up a underwear. It's yours. He's supporting you. And the F16 bothered her, too. If it's disturbed by the flag and the F16, it's going to Turkey or wherever it wants, to Albania or Pakistan. This is Greece. For this flag, a lot of blood has been spilled. To you all say the word "democracy", a lot of blood has been shed. You don't have the right to catch in your mouth, because we support the flag. We have given an oath to both our flag and our faith. You give a political oath - most of you in here - and you say 'the vow of honour'. What price are you talking about? Where do you leave all the ribs - the son of Mr. Skourletis, who is also in front of the flag burn, a mule child and the others - burning the flag? And you came to teach us? Talk about Mr. Varvitsiotis. Have you said anything? Your colleague is New Democracy. He said it was everyone's right to burn it. Why don't you talk? For everyone I am going to talk about, because here it was voted not to post the Greek flag outside of national festivities, when Turkey and Albania and Skopje have them permanently. You go to Istanbul and all you see are Turkish flags. That's what should have happened here. If a golden man comes out and burns a Turkish or Albanian flag, you know what will happen: racist, fascist, one, the other, the other. But no one speaks of the Greek flag. You said you caught them, arrested. Let's see what sentences they're gonna eat. Prove it to us. And don't forget, you and the generation of the Polytechnic, that at that time in the insurrection of the Polytechnic world had come out with the Greek flags, no matter whether some people were struggling this to become rich, fill the pockets and today spit that flag. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-20-S1-commons.u15	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-20-S1-commons.u16	It is clear, Mr President, that there can be no serious debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-20-S1-commons.u17	With what you're saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-20-S1-commons.u18	For, in proving the unfoundedness of the precedent, that nothing has happened, that no one has been arrested, was himself excavated into sows, who are completely irrelevant to the case. Since you raised the subject of the flag, I would like to tell you - and I have told you repeatedly from this position - that the patriotism of everyone does not show him in a time of peace, Mr Micho. It shows him when the country's in danger.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-20-S1-commons.u19	Just like us.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-20-S1-commons.u20	Yeah, especially you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-20-S1-commons.u21	It's time. You'll see a lot of us.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-20-S1-commons.u22	We will not risk homeland and, above all, we will not let it be at risk from you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-20-S1-commons.u23	Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-20-S1-commons.u24	So I say to you - and do not violate the Rules of Procedure - that the ones you admire are the ones who pushed home in the difficult hours that she was going through, in a Caucasus. May I remind you of the capitals on August 4th? Did any of them go out to the mountains to defend free Greece against the tenants? May I remind you that you admire Germans, Germans' partners or the junta who handed Cyprus over to Atila?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-20-S1-commons.u25	The file. Take out the file we've asked for.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-20-S1-commons.u26	These are your camels, and that's your offer. Do not, then, be patriots in a time of peace, for those who are safe to portray as patriots are patriots. Home to see how you defend her when she's in danger. Apart from the fact that this report you made surprised me. Of course, the rebellious people during the Polytechnic period for national independence and national dignity fought, when the junta was a government, which you admire...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-20-S1-commons.u27	Like Mrs. Damanakis. That's why I mentioned it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-20-S1-commons.u28	...and which handed Cyprus over to the Turks.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-20-S1-commons.u29	The junta didn't deliver it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-20-S1-commons.u30	This is the offer of your ideological orders.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-20-S1-commons.u31	Open the file!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-20-S1-commons.u32	Mr. Micho, you continue to be ugly, because you see what you're saying can't stand criticism. Not even in criticism!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-20-S1-commons.u33	If you're causing me, what am I supposed to do? Because you guys have a dentist and you're talking last?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-20-S1-commons.u34	Mr. Mijo, please don't have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-20-S1-commons.u35	Let's not provoke me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-20-S1-commons.u36	You continue as a far right to do what you have done now: Infringing the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-20-S1-commons.u37	You break him all the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-20-S1-commons.u38	I heard what you said. But the other thing you said, what do you want to do here? You mentioned examples of Albania, Turkey, Pakistan. What was that now? Smart?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-20-S1-commons.u39	It was true.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-20-S1-commons.u40	I would therefore like to say to you, Mr Micho, that I do not know where you draw ideological standards or state standards. But I tell you that this country will raise the head again and stand up against all those who have thrown it into this vortex. Because for us home is first and foremost the Greek people. And right-wing rhetoric, patriots from the safe don't pass. I do not want you to know that - I will not follow the practice of previous ministers. I will come here to answer you because you have not come here on your own. Some of you voted to come. And they should listen to those who voted for you, what your ideology is and what your attitude is.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-20-S1-commons.u41	That's why they're voting for us.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-20-S1-commons.u42	That is why you will be taking them to Parliament. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-20-S1-commons.u43	That's why we come up and you fall.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-20-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, too. We move to the eighth under number 325/9-1-2017 a topical question for the second cycle of MP in Thessaloniki, Mr.Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the adoption of a medium-term business plan for the Port Authority of Thessaloniki (OLTH). Mr Kurublis will answer the timely question. Mr. Saridis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-20-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, it is comforting that we are coming today more than three months to discuss this question. It is, however, disappointing that, even after more than three months, this question remains timely and may continue to be up-to-date, if and if it is not answered sufficiently today. Pending Mr Minister's approval or not of the Port Planning and Development Committee of the medium-term business plan for the development of the PLTH from 2017 to 2021 and pending the completion of the second phase of discussions with investors - private individuals for the privatisation of the port, you ask, Mr Minister: Does the Greek Government accept that any agreement with private investors for the port of Thessaloniki should definitely be compared with its qualitative and quantitative elements, with the medium-term business plan, which is already awaiting its approval for the city's good, in the public interest, for the sake of Macedonia? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-20-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-20-S1-commons.u47	Mr President, I thank my fellow Member for the question and sincerely thank him for understanding the delay. The delay has had no reason to concentrate on those elements that would satisfy - and I believe they will satisfy - the honourable Member in this response. The first thing I would like to say is that we should clarify whether we are talking about business plan or master plan. For that is not clear in the question. There's a confusion in the question. The business plan refers to a special programme and is not transferred to the Ministry's competences. It remains under the responsibility of the Port Authority. The master plan is, in a way, a general installation programme for investment activities and must be approved by the relevant committee, based in the Ministry of Shipping. This was submitted in April, it was sent back to the Agency to make comments and came to the Ministry three days ago. It will be introduced into the procedure of the competent committee, the ESAL, and there it will be finalised in order to be the framework for the development of the Thessaloniki Port. Of course, it should be noted that each investor has the ability to make changes in this context. However, what I would like to say to the House is that the procedures for promoting the development of the port of Thessaloniki are also consistent with the timetables we have identified. I shall say, Mr President, in my second speech some additional elements that I have to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-20-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, too. Mr. Saridis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-20-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, right now outside the port of town, eight ships are waiting for loaded. The shipowners, the owners of these ships, are yelling, have risen up because they cannot empty them. A crane for the last 15 days has been broken and they're trying to fix it. If we talk about business plan, if we talk about master plan, if it was filed in April, if it came to the Ministry three days ago, the city of Thessaloniki, the region of Macedonia, a bit of interest. It is of interest what the Ministry intends to do, what is the intention of the government which has been ruling for two years, which has not solved the issue, as it has to solve, which has not solved a solution to the port, an issue that has even broken down the city itself at the moment we are talking about. The question, Minister, was clear: should any solution be compared by the approval of the Port Planning and Development Committee with the private investor's proposal? And today you shouldn't give us a lead, something? Shouldn't you give us a timeline after all the time you've been at the Ministry? Let me remind you, Minister, that you have been from the beginning of November. Shouldn't we have a timeline in our hands, know what happens to this port? Time passes, Minister. Other ports are equipped. He'll lose his geostrategic significance. And not only will the geostrategic importance be lost, but the aeration will also occur in the city, the aeration will also occur throughout central Macedonia. I beg you right now if you can give a timeline or any commitment to resolve the issue of the port of Thessaloniki. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-20-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, forty-six students and three teachers from the 68th High School of Athens. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] You guys have the misfortune to be the last timely question to the Minister today, so you will not see the sitting of the House. But you'll get an image of how this House works. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-20-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleagues, I think that the approach you come here today on this matter is not accurate. A procedure has been initiated for the port, which has not been delayed. It is another master plan that the Agency is working on and it needs to go through the procedures that I have mentioned and it is another process that is going on. And it progresses smoothly, because it is precisely because the government's political leadership is working on this whole issue in consultation with all the institutions of Thessaloniki. As you know, the municipality and the chambers of finance and all the citizens of the city have in a way a positive convergence in this process. At the moment, workers' issues, which are a crucial issue in all this development, are in a productive dialogue. We have also advanced the issue of consensus and agreements at a very good level. There will not be any worse workers - and not least - treatment than the agreement reached in Piraeus. We are trying to have what is best, because that is precisely why we want to ensure the interests of the workers. Thessaloniki, the port, Mr. Comrade, to have fun with your concerns, is on an extremely positive path, because the investments of 180 million, which the Prime Minister has committed himself to publicly, and which is an element of all this process of exploiting the port are inviolable and unnegotiable, ensure that this port, in fact, will take the road it needs to take. It will be a port of great development dynamics in the wider region, it will affect all of Macedonia and, therefore, it will also be linked to the railway line and to Egnatia - projects that are under way - a real economic hub. So I think we should talk in such a spirit. This is the responsible briefing I can give you. Besides, I have assured you my office is open. This is my duty to my fellow Members, to discuss, to listen to the views, to rectify possible mistakes that we are making, because we do not think we have the only truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-20-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, too. The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-20-S1-commons.u53	With the consent of the House at 10.51 p.m. the sitting on Monday 23 January 2017 at 18.00, on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny, is closed: topical questions are being debated.
