ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Ladies and gentlemen, there is a letter from Mr Dimitrios Koukoutsi to the President of the Greek Parliament Mr Nikolaos Voutsi, whom I read: Mr President, with this notification I am telling you that I do not belong to the Group of the People's League - Golden Dawn Parliament today, and I therefore declare myself an Independent MEP. I am honoured, Koukoutsis Dimitrios, MEP Messinia".
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Tourism: "Following the Agreement on Cooperation in Tourism between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the State of Kuwait". The draft was adopted by a majority in the Standing Committee. It is introduced to the House in accordance with the procedure laid down in Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure, namely those who object to the ratification of this agreement. Does a colleague want to take the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u3	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u4	Mr. Shahinides from Golden Dawn has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr President. In the ratification of cooperation in the field of tourism between Greece and the Government of the State of Kuwait, we have seen that Greece has, for several hundred years now, had friendly relations with Kuwait. In fact, a few years ago, there was an agreement on a cooperation at the level of archaeological research, which had lasted from 2007 to 2009. In fact, even if we turn to mythology, we will see some elements of Greek mythology that are mixed with the local myths of Kuwait. With this historic past, therefore, we could find a consensus on today's ratification, but there are some issues that I mentioned in committee, which doubted the good mood and motives of Kuwait. In an unsubstantiated time and during a visit to Greece by the Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister of Kuwait, he said he was looking forward to Greece being the investment partner of Kuwait and this was a personal choice of the emir. He also pointed out that the main aim is to buy real estate, since prices have now declined, as he said. In other words, therefore, Kuwait expressed its desire to become a shareholder of Greece, which is simply sold out today, but expressed it very well. He went a step further and realized what would happen in the immediate future with the port of Piraeus and 'COSCO', he tried to say that his country has mining and refined oil know-how in order to show its availability in this sector as well. In his visit to Greece he was accompanied by the head of state bodies, including the country's Investment Agency, Kuwait Investment Authority, and strong banking operators. Let us see, however, now what this body is, what the strong banks of the Gulf are and what a role they really have to play in Europe and how all this is linked to each other. Article 9 of the ratification refers in particular to Greece's respect for its obligations arising from the European Union. What is the reason why special reference should be made to Greece's obligations vis-à-vis the European Union to a sanction of friendship and cooperation? Unless there are conflicting interests of the European Union and Kuwait. Is it to be pointed out here that in any case Greece is obliged to comply with the rules of the European Union, but in what area in particular? So the Gulf countries are the foundations of Islamic financial institutions. They have four of the five largest Islamic banks in the world and maintain the highest concentration of Islamic deposits and funds due to high incomes. One of these is Kuwait Finance House in Kuwait, whose representatives accompanied the Sheikh in his visit to Greece. It is worth noting, therefore, that the sovereign investment funds of the Gulf Cooperation Council countries, which are financed entirely from oil and gas revenues, have developed at a rate of 24% over the past five years and are estimated to manage a total of over 1.1 trillion dollars, which is equivalent to about 40% of the assets managed by the sovereign investment funds worldwide. One of the world's largest sovereign investment funds is Kuwait Investment Authority Kuwait, with over 200 billion dollars. So the crucial thing here is whether these Islamic banking groups, which have high positions in the world ranking, finance and encourage the entry into Europe of Islamic peoples. We cannot say that, of course, but historical development unfortunately confirms this. How is it possible to have a huge flow of immigrants from Muslim states in the European area, a flow that has altered the ethnic composition of European countries and threatens to disappear European peoples as we know them today, at the same time that the Islamic states with which the refugee people are adjourned have a huge economic prosperity and on the other hand are their own peoples? So what I would like to say is that the alleged refugee flows could choose their neighbours. But they choose to cross thousands of miles, to suffer hardships without supposedly economic coverage to finally reach Europe, which is lagging behind in economic terms, while the states that are friendly to them have part of the world's wealth. This alone demonstrates the design of the Muslim enforcement in Europe through Greece and even financed by the powerful Islamic banks, including the Kuwait groups. Any cooperation on signature, ratification of an agreement to encourage relations all obey the logic of Greece's subjugation to the Muslim world. After all, it is no accidental and short-term decision to erect in the heart of Athens. This is also confirmed by the following: Banks from Kuwait, Bahrain, Saudi Arabia have bought shares in Turkish participating banks, Kuwait Finance House, which has been evaluated as the world's largest Islamic economic organisation and has a majority stake - and I am ending, Mr President - in Kuwait Turk. The assets at the end of 2007 reached $3.18 billion, according to the Association of Turkish Participating Banks. So in the logic of Greece's absolute control and submission - which is the responsibility of investment, and which is why it is chosen by Kuwait as a supposedly equivalent investor - it is intended to ratify the memorandum of cooperation under discussion. Such a strong economy how likely it is to treat Greece as a partner and not as a future estate, a means to invade the European area, given that this role cannot be played by Turkey? Because the financial control of Kuwait and the Islamic countries in Turkey is for granted. If it could serve Turkey and Islam on their way to Europe - institutional and not underground, as it is doing today - it is assumed that neither memos of cooperation would need to be signed, nor anything else. They'd just come and buy it, no matter how cynical that sounds. So what is recorded in the explanatory statement on the encouragement and promotion of cooperation in the tourism sector to the mutual benefit of the two countries is unrealistic and in no way reflecting the real motives of Kuwait. That is why Golden Dawn is voting against this sanction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr. Shahinides. Mr Katsotis also has the floor, as the Communist Party of Greece voted against the signature of the ratification.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr President. The capital has neither religion nor home. His God is the gain, and so everywhere that's his same logic, this is his strategy to win even more. The government today comes to forge a new attack against the people, with a fairy tale of measures and countermeasures. It burdens the measures new burdens on the people's backs, and with the so-called countermeasures it reduces capital, it comes to support its competitiveness and profitability. The agenda of the discussions in the framework of the second assessment is in this direction, namely how to formulate stable, permanent conditions of greater profitability of business groups, how the conditions of spring in the economy will be formulated, as the Prime Minister said today in his speech to the Ministerial Council. It is another attempt to cover up the attack on the new measures. Tourism, which is also the current agreement we are discussing today, is the symbolic proof of what the government is talking about and who is benefiting. The five to six thousand annual earnings in the best of cases, which will be taxed, and the altar regime in modern slavery is the one that brings in the spring to the big businessmen in tourism, who reward this policy, after ensuring more favourable conditions of profitability. The Prime Minister can take on record tourists, revenues, profits, as he said today in presenting the development plan. But what didn't he say? He did not say about the record, on the other hand, of the exploitation of workers, the deterioration of all the conditions of pay, work and life of workers in tourism. Madam Minister, you're not following me. Okay, you're making the conversations through your phone, but that's what this is about.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u8	I'm watching you very well.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u9	This is the spring in the economy, this is the fair growth that the government is talking about. These conditions seek to stabilise, to simulate, for their benefit of capital. That is what so-called institutions, capital representatives, BSE, SETE and other business groups are demanding. Such conditions are also included in this agreement, on the table of negotiations on so-called fair growth. They are all those that create the conditions of capitalist development, all those measures that are added to all previous ones, to enhance the competitiveness, the profitability of business groups. Fair growth for the bourgeoisie is not to have less profitability than the competitive countries. That is what this government ensures them with all the measures. What is in the way of this prospect is abolished, such as the introduction of collective redundancies, the increase in the rate of redundancies from 5% to 10% as required, the more flexibility in labour relations, the continuation of the reduction in wages through business contracts and persons' associations, the further reduction in employers' insurance contributions, the further reduction in the costs of the State budget for social costs, privatisation, the taxation of people's incomes, new restrictions on the right to strike trade union activity. At the same time as the cheap labour force, the government is going on with new funding from the tax-payers, from the majority of the people, from pensions, wages, from health and education. It prepares new tax exemptions in the name of investment and the creation of new jobs. The deterioration of the lives of the people and the harsh reality of the great majority cannot be relieved by the thick words of fair growth, of the spring of the Greek economy. The spring is about capital gains and the gravitational majority, which promotes new shifts in labour relations, new invasion of people's incomes, new cuts in pensions. This agreement through its articles leads to new horizons for the same business groups in our country for investment in either Kuwait or Kuwait in Greece. It does not concern the majority of the workers of our people, for whom they have old and new measures, necessary to promote business plans for their increased profitability. One-way for the workers of all sectors, private and public, one-way for the self-employed, poor farms, young people and young people is to organise their fight against these new measures, against the agreement between the troika and the government on labour, insurance and tax measures, which will break the lives of the people further. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. The JRC is fighting, first of all, with its members, its friends, in order to organise in each sector the struggle of workers against the measures and countermeasures that break life, in order to create the conditions for a mass, militaristic, response, to give priority to the fight against the loss of workers, with a stable daily working time, with the abolition of the euphemism which you consider to be the best practice of the European Union to restore sectoral collective bargaining in the pre-crisis period, as a starting point for the signature of young people by mandatory application, with the strength of the most favourable conditions for reclaiming the current real needs of workers. This requires a struggle, with a ruptured and overthrowing line of this policy, which deprives the lives that many deserve for the profits of business groups. Hope and optimism for the working class and popular strata can be born on the road to collectively claiming the class struggle for a society free of capitalist bonds without human exploitation. In this direction, the struggle can strengthen, to block the new measures for recovering rights losses, people's income, so that modern people's needs can be found at the centre. The ratification of this convention concerns business groups and is contrary to popular interests, which is why we are voting against it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u10	Thank you Mr Christos Katsotis, MP of the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u11	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u12	Here, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr President. Our rapporteur, Mr Constantinople, has expressed a positive opinion in the committee. We'll vote. As the Bureau is right and gives the Members of Parliament the floor for one minute, thereby making use of the parties to the House which are in operation, we have not put in place an instrument which would not be more appropriate to say to the committees, Mr President, that we have reservations so that we can take the floor in plenary and speak, by doing other tasks than the Rules of Procedure. However, for one minute, I would like, Minister, to tell you that, first, we are voting. Secondly, I do not share the arguments that what constitutes tourism is about some employers. I think that close to 17% or 19% of the active population is engaged in tourism. Therefore, when he thrives, the profit concerns too many people and thankfully that, for international, external reasons, but also internally, it goes well with the country's tourism. Fortunately! This is definitely due to the factors associated with what is happening in other countries in the region, the fact that Greece is a cheaper country and also the fact that everything that created a concern for candidate tourists, i.e. events in Athens mainly, with dead, vandalism, have stopped. Let me tell you that, because of your party, what was happening was happening with the famous indignant. However, Minister, I am ending with this: tourism is not enough. The country needs a universal effort to reopen its economy. What happened today, as a Ministerial Council, to talk about growth and ELSTAT to give a recession for 2016, with the data of the Prime Minister, who spoke about a two-tier resurrection in Easter, and of Christ and the economy, of ministers who cut days ago...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u14	Mr. Loverdo, you're doing what you said at the beginning that you're judging it...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u15	Oh, no. I said that I am taking the floor and I will speak as a parliamentary representative, with a generalisation. I would like to conclude, Mr President, and it is my last sentence: How can you have said so contradictory things, act as Minister of Tourism, in the field of your association with other ministers who have to deal with the economy, lead the country to recession and your Prime Minister to speak about growth? Does anyone trust you anymore?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u16	Thank you. Mrs. Helena Koudoura, Minister of Tourism, has the floor. Here you go, Mrs. Koudura.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u17	Thank you very much. Today we have the "Modification of the Agreement on Tourism Cooperation between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the State of Kuwait", as part of the opening up of the new markets, the dynamic foreign markets, which have started since 2015 and the tourist markets of the Middle East are our priority. In the context of national tourism policy, therefore, we pay particular attention to the promotion and promotion of Greece in high purchasing power markets and to raising an additional share of incoming tourism. To this end, we are working to strengthen bilateral tourism relations and we create these conditions, in order to encourage the private sector to move forward with new beneficial cooperation. With regard to Kuwait, there are very important possibilities for building strong relations in tourism and for tourism to be the bridge - as always constitutes the bridge - to promote new cooperation in other areas, such as agricultural products, the food industry, exports, the real estate market and so on. Kuwait's residents are traveling a lot. They do have travel expenses that are multiples of the average of other nationalities. The proposed draft law therefore seeks to ‘Modify the Agreement on cooperation in the tourism sector between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the State of Kuwait’, which reminds us that it has been signed since 12-6 2014 in Athens and this agreement is the result of the shared desire of the two countries to strengthen friendly relations through the development of bilateral cooperation in the tourism sector. This Agreement sets out two very important issues, the appropriate means and conditions for increasing the tourist movement between the two countries and the levels of bilateral cooperation in the tourism sector. I shall not go into the specific topics, we have said them in committee, and I shall simply say that this cooperation also provides for a joint committee, for travel by journalists, tour operators, from Kuwait to Greece and from Greece to Kuwait, for participation in tourist exhibitions, in various tourist events, incentives to make tourist investments, exchange of information and know-how. As I have said to you, this small committee will consist of a small number of authorised representatives, in order to agree on all these actions and actions to ensure that we are able to travel between countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u18	Thank you very much, Minister. The debate on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Tourism is closed: "Definition of the Agreement on cooperation in tourism between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the State of Kuwait". Asked by this House: Can the bill be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u19	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u20	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u21	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u22	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u23	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u24	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u25	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u26	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u27	Consequently, the bill of the Ministry of Tourism: ‘Agreement on cooperation in the tourism sector between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the State of Kuwait’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, on the principle of Articles and the whole, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u28	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u29	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, we are interrupting for three minutes and we will continue with parliamentary scrutiny.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS The third question will be discussed with number 473/13-2-2017 in the second question of the Athens Parliamentary Committee of New Democracy Mrs. Catherine Papakostas - Ironropoulou to the Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on the payment of contributions from the free traders. The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Mr Anastasios Petropoulos. Mrs Papakostas, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr President. After a long delay - the first question, already before the first Circular - comes today the political leadership of the Ministry of Labour to respond to an issue that is extremely critical for all those workers, whom we are used to call 'blocked workers'. Here I understand that Mr Petropoulos will try to respond, despite the fact that neither with the first circular nor with the second regulation has solved the problem, that we will ultimately have an effective way of resolving an existing concern and a current issue, which concerns employees using a service document. Because, up to now we are talking, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is no solution to the problem. On the contrary, I would say that here - and this is the problem - the state cannot act as a promoter of hidden work. And I repeat, it acts as a promoter of hidden work. The covered provision of a dependent employee who appears as an self-employed person is an illegal practice, since it effectively relieves the employer of the obligation to pay insurance contributions. It is now supposed that the legislator, the government with the legislative initiative - Article 39(9) of Law No.4387/2016 aims, Mr President, to limit the consequences of this illegal form of employment. However, the Circulars as a whole, which have been issued by the Ministry of Labour until now, i.e. the results of the management policy of the Ministry of Labour, lead to the closure of individual enterprises and the hidden work. And I ask the Ministry of Labour - and let it be represented every time - to respond to the employees who use a service report: firstly, when will the question, in a definitive and irreversibly and effectively, be solved by the government in managing it to the free-traders through its law, Law No.4387/2016? Secondly, how will insurance contributions still be paid after 10% has been paid? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Mrs. Papakosta. Mr Anastasios Petropoulos, Deputy Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs Papakotas, it is obvious that you have written your question before the statistics on the progress of the contributions come out. It is therefore justified that your initial impression that this is a very large contribution which makes it difficult for the free traders. And of course you have written your question before it is known by public statements what is happening with the so-called 'blocks'. I am sure you will agree - and I agree with your comment - that they should have a normal working relationship. Wage earner cannot appear as an independent provision of services. And that's what we're trying to achieve with our law, put a normality in industrial relations. And we allow those who are concerned with blocking people to come to this normality, like, of course, the workers in a non-objective and hostile move, but to an effort to understand relations on the basis of legality and only legality, so as to impose the contributions, which are equivalent to the employer and the employee in their own logic. That is why - I have said it many times - this is a regulation which provides a basis for the normalisation of those who are truly dependent on work. After all, I have stressed that the IKA - which was the fund responsible for employees - was a case where a person appeared on a block, while it was a covert relationship with a dependent labour, imposed fines on the employer. It makes no sense to continue this situation. For this reason too, and for the sake of informing citizens, businessmen, workers, we have given this opportunity to bring everyone into line in the context of legality. It's not right what you're saying, everyone has rushed to close the blocks. I'll tell you some evidence. In 2016 they interrupted insurance from the Free Professional Insurance Agency - which was the responsible fund for those who appeared as freelance professionals with blocks - forty-four thousand and fifty-five-five-thirty-one insurers. In 2015, thirty-seven thousand were interrupted. And in 2014 they interrupted forty-two thousand two hundred eighty-five people their insurance relationship with the OAU while working with a block. So nothing else happened now. The media showed that there was a huge loss flow of insured persons because the blocks closed. But that was before. About there it fluctuated, based on the information we have, the case of those who were interrupting their activities with the OAU. About those limits he was. I believe that a law with its potential will restore legality in the next period at all levels. I shall reply then, Mr President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Mr. Undersecretary. Mrs Papakostas has the floor for her dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u35	Mr President, I have listened to the Minister, and I am surprised at this very simple speech. You referred to what was happening in previous years. The legislator is making a new arrangement, which you have done. Indeed, Mr President, I tabled my question on 7 February 2017. My question is now answered - after it has been retabled - not on my own responsibility, but on the grounds that the Ministry has invoked any impediments and could not respond. In the medium term, in the time it took place, I hoped I would have a clear answer, since my question preceded the new regulation brought by the Ministry of Labour. You have brought in a new arrangement - you are supposed - to solve the problems and the diseases which you have said existed in the previous period. Instead, a great droit was created and a bigger problem was created than what you were asked to solve by means of the legislative process, by means of the law that you brought. You are therefore bringing in a first circular, which has not solved the problem. We are talking in everyday life, we are not speaking theoretically in intentions or in political will. You are referring to and making me a reference to statistics on what was happening before 2015. But you were supposed to come as a government to heal what happened before you. Instead, we see - and take note now - with what you said today, with the fact that you failed to regulate - that seems in practice - the problem you have been called upon to manage, with what you have subsequently brought as a solution to the failure of your first regulation to cure your law, that there is one version here now, which I will tell you, in what you are going to legislate. I don't know who you're consulting, I don't know how you're organizing things, but people get sick. Mr President, I am going to tell you that if the employer - I am going to take the good case - he acknowledges his obligation to pay a share of the contributions, you, as you have set things up, make him appear as an employer as to admit that it is a dependent job. So, at some point, because I am a legal person, you know, it can be used against him, and that is why even if there is a positive attitude of the employer towards the worker, he can hesitate, because he will find himself accused and accountable, to pay insurance contributions. You don't solve that. In case 2, i.e. when the employer does not come to an agreement with the worker and after complaint by the employer, a number of questions arise. What are these questions? Firstly, how will the amount of the service card be disclosed to the authorities if the employer does not want to include the worker's name in the detailed periodic statement which he is obliged to submit? [[This is where the ending bell is ringing over the speaking time of the honourable Member.]] Mr President, I ask for a minute's tolerance. The second problem is whether an employer intends to pay the contributions and the second employer does not intend to pay the contributions. Is the worker in this case to be regarded as a freelance professional, or will it be considered as a businessman with a block? And how will he pay the contributions? And will he pay alone the contributions of one job and the other together with the employer, who agrees? Minister, understand that, you've made a mistake in the whole arrangement. The second circular does not solve the problem of double charges, which emerged, as a certain portion of the employees are invited to pay contributions as self-employed for the income of 2015 and as employees for the income of 2017 and this while the economic conditions have deteriorated greatly, due to the crisis. I will close with that, Mr President. The way you actually bring it - what you were supposed to be - was the reason that the covert provision of a employee who appears as a self-employed is an illegal practice - in fact what are you doing? You are supposed to limit illegal work and the consequences of illegal forms of employment. In practice, however, your circles - and I would like you to understand it, I call you loudly to understand it today and to heal it - as they stand at the moment, lead, I repeat, to closure because there is a dead end, there is no legal solution for the people concerned to take advantage of it as they wish. It will lead and will continue to lead to the closure of individual businesses and the hidden work, unfortunately, despite what you have just said to us. Because you know very well that in life the law must work. If the tool you brought here, the law, cannot work to solve the problems, then as a way out, as a valve to dismantle the closure of individual businesses, the continuing hidden work and the problem and the pathogens will remain, and you will be buffaloed that you have solved the problem, responding to us here with statistics from previous years and with theories of the press that "we wanted to solve the problem, you will see that it will be solved". The problems are not solved, Minister. Legislation, tell us correctly, admit the mistake, tell us a timeline and tell us how insurance benefits will be paid, because it is extremely critical, which fall short of 10%. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mrs. Papakosta. Mr Anastasios Petropoulos, Deputy Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u37	Mrs Papakotas, I, as your colleague in the profession, know very well that, as you know, the relevant issues concerning the status of work, whether they are dependent or not. And we've been living this all over the past few years, i.e. working as a contractor, while he was a hirer. And whenever such cases were arrested by the Labour Inspectorate or by the former IKA services, the relevant fines were imposed and the actual employer sought contributions. We haven't done anything else now. In the light of the findings of the case-law, the courts and theory, we have said that it is right to give an opportunity to a society which feels that there is no reason for life to be in an irregular situation - not to say illegal - that is, the dark side of the economy, which creates problems for unfair competition, which creates problems in general in development. And we said, because we understand that we cannot go in this way, to restore the employment relationship in the normal context, in which it should already be. We have not created a new industrial relations environment, but we have given the opportunity to see it, and already there are too many people who have taken advantage of this regulation. I assure you that the development of the Single Social Security Agency will fortunately be positive for society and for the economy and for the country's prospects. Because already the results, despite the orchestra of a more general bad news package and the reality is perpetuating this whole rumour. After all, no one can hide them. Very soon the data on contributions will also come out. We really have a very good contribution increase, greater than last year. So nothing will happen from what has been said recently, that the social security system is falling apart. While shortly before they said that we are "slapping" the insured and that we are taking them a lot of money, they are now saying that, because there is not much we will get, the pensions will collapse and we will not be able to pay pensions. It's like a friend told me like a windshield wiper, if I don't catch you on one side, I'll catch you on the other. They're saying it all. None of this will be confirmed, fortunately, for the economy and for all of us. Finally, in your question for 10%, 9.22% is exactly what the employee will pay. We have no problem in time and we will not impose it - I have said no fines or increases for that period that has not been paid in the whole of the levy. We have this luxury fortunately because we are doing well and we can have a time-lag so that when these statements are made in a very short time we can clear the doubts - reasonable doubts that you have rightly pointed out - for those employers who are ignoring that there is another one. There is therefore no problem and no one will be charged with surcharges and fines. If it happened, because of ignorance, that he would not declare the employee in a block as an employee with a dependent job and pay his own contribution. All of this, I assure you, will be solved. You do well and ask to listen to people what they need to do. There's no reason to be afraid of a protection system. It's what we created for everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Mr. Undersecretary. The second question will be discussed with number 542/28-2-2017 in the second cycle of the MP Irakliou of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Vassilios Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the withdrawal of the decision of the Deputy Minister of Petropoulos on the seizures of microprojectors. The timely question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Mr Anastasios Petropoulos. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor to develop your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Mr President. "Ladies and gentlemen, I want to close today with a political commitment, a commitment that will give a breath to hundreds of thousands of small and medium-sized free professionals, who are squeezing under the burden of debts, with the satisfaction of a permanent request from this sector. The insurance contributions of the free professionals and the self-employed of the OAU and of the EBRD, which become due up to 31-12-2016, are 'freezed', without, of course, being deleted, so that they can be insured if they are consistent with their current debts. Because from 1-1-2017 insurance contributions do not arise arbitraryly, but are linked to the actual financial capacity of the insured person. This is a real breath measure for hundreds of thousands of families, but also for the sustainability of the new insurance system." Minister, I think you understood what this was all about. It's another commitment from Thessaloniki. I don't know if the city or Mr. Tsipras has it! You need to make it clear, because the city is slandering - that's what they told me today that I was there - with the multiple commitments that are not being made. Instead of 'freezing' overdue social security contributions and giving this possibility, for which you were committed, you come with your decision at the end of December to send to the CRL and therefore to the mandatory measures and debtors from EUR 1 - not only of EUR 5,000 planned, but of EUR 1 - on the grounds that this is the only way they can be incorporated into the law on overdue households. Really? Can't the insurance fund get the due date certificate and can the CRL alone? This cheap excuse for this matter, I think it cannot raise the burden of a decision, which has no justification and must be withdrawn immediately. The micro-projectors and even those for whom the judgments are pending in the courts, as stated in the previous judgment, cannot be sent to the CRL. Thank you, Mr President. We are asking the Minister to tell us whether he intends to re-examine the withdrawal of this decision and, of course, when the Prime Minister's commitment to 'fresh' of late debts will be realised.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. Mr Anastasios Petropoulos, Deputy Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u41	Mr. Kegeroglou, contrary to his practice, which from the day he was founded was hard for the insured, due to the ever-growing process of imposing confiscations and forced executions, the CRL has done nothing of this kind under our political leadership. Therefore, as I have said on several occasions and as we have mentioned in the relevant press release, which you have read, the issue is a question of managing the debts, and it is obviously not going to be left behind by the EPC and the CRL with its mechanisms from the attempt to collect contributions, due to those who really have and do not. In no case will we contribute to a practice in previous years, where various 'friends' have benefited from immunity in order not to pay contributions, in various ways and in various ways. The rule that is respected reverentially in the ECA is not to be persecuted that no one has the opportunity to pay contributions. On the contrary, we should seek unrelentingly the collection of contributions where there is actually revenue and they are hidden, where there is property and it escapes. And that's what we're gonna do. But, as I have said on several occasions, our logic and our perception, which we want to inspire both the citizens and the insured, is not 'I will take your home to give you a pension'. In no case remains such a logic within a framework of social protection, as it should characterise social security. If that happens and you spot it, I will gladly accept your observation to prevent it. There is no such case under our political responsibility and guidance that such events occur in the social security system. The Prime Minister's commitment therefore remains a commitment. What we need to see is the details of a procedure and a mechanism that will approach the actual possibility of the debtor paying debts. These are systems that we are working on and we will implement them. It is true that this 'fresh' in terms of the means of prosecuting has existed. There are no prosecuting mechanisms, which are activated where there is no possibility of paying contributions. In the hidden revenues, we didn't say we'd do a favor or have a tolerance. In no case, then, is there any reason to worry about the development of our policy on receipts, which will always be friendly to the insured.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Mr. Undersecretary. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I am not only concerned about myself, they have already expressed their opposition to all the trade unions of small and medium-sized enterprises, traders, craftsmen, and even last week we were invited to Heraklion in a large meeting, where Mr Syntrakis was also here today - and they analysed this risk, which is hanging, in your own ministerial decision, above the heads of small businesses. Because if it proceeds to any commitment and forced action, given that another commitment that you had made in Thessaloniki, the establishment of the irresponsible account, nothing has been done, will not be able to function as businesses. And that is an important issue. It is formally put in place by the institutions. From there on, we have asked you a question and a request for documents on what action you have taken for debtors from EUR 5,000 and upwards, what is actually available in relation to the possibility of recovering, in order to cover the amounts you have mentioned in the budget of the EPC. Because if you do not really address those who are required, you will not be able to cover this, the number that has been written will be empty. But, in the matter he has to do from EUR 1 to EUR 5,000, is that where the hidden rich are? Are the hidden riches at 500 euros, 200 euros, 1,000 euros? Why, then, was it not your decision from EUR 1,000 to EUR 5,000 and it was from EUR 1? Let me tell you something else. In your decision you abolished the previous one. In the previous one there was a provision, which said that the debts that are being suspended in the CRL did not go to the CRL. So, if there's a legal suspension for a debt of EUR 1,000, will it go to the CRL? And does the CRL have to take any necessary measures? Look, what you're saying is a political commitment. I accept it here in good faith, politically. But is it time for the officials to ask for responsibility from the CRL, from all the staffing capacity to breach duty? Why did you not make this ministerial decision that from EUR 1 to EUR 5,000 we are sending them to the CRL to be confirmed as arrears, but no enforcement measure is allowed, any measure that has anything to do with an account reservation and anything else? Make such a ministerial decision. That's what we're asking. Let them go to the CRL, but there is this decision in writing, so that the executives do not go for infidelity. What is the criterion, namely, on the basis of which they should collect, proceed to measures or not go ahead? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u45	The commitments concern us, of course, our own government. And any commitment we make will respect it and we will not, Mr Kegeroglu, have anything different from what I said in my prototype. Once again I call upon all the social forces to inform the debtors, who are many thousand, unfortunately, since the years of the previous governments, who have caused or contributed to the failure to deal with this crisis that was coming. They are about nine hundred sixty-seven thousand twenty-seven members of the EUPM with active insurance that they have not paid and could not pay contributions. For these people who are two hundred and sixty thousand, there is this possibility by reducing the contributions we have made to this world, so that they can really be informed, to start paying contributions. Achieving the return of these nearly three hundred thousand people from the OSCE alone - I am not saying for the EFF - to the social security system, it will give us the advantage and in the negotiation that we are negotiating, to succeed in managing debts, and I assure you that we are on a very good step. Of course, there are two hundred and forty thousand people who have been insured and will never come back, but even they will actually have the opportunity to see the possibility of getting back through the arrangements that we are going to make. Legally, there is no case for any procedure suspended by the court to be subject to any recovery procedure. And that's because there's legally no such possibility, it's suspended. So don't ask me about matters that have their answer. Such cases cannot enter the procedure of any collection. But I said before, when one case of a debtor is going to happen, who, while he really fails to pay contributions, is called upon to pay contributions or to be subject to a recovery procedure by the CRL, I really am now saying that it will be a case that will not be dealt with in such a way that it does not fit the social security system. Of course you know the numbers, you also carried out at the Ministry of Labour and Social Security: 31 billion debts have been raised in total and more than 10 billion in the OAU. In order to deal with these, we must give all the insured ones the right picture. Instead of scaring him with false impressions, we should call on him to inform him that he has to embrace his own social security system for his own health and care, for his own pension tomorrow. With such a prospect, the country can really deal with its problems and not with the horror and unjustified fear of being sowed by such sermons. There will be no confirmation of these. There won't be any.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u46	I was a preacher?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u47	I'm not talking about you. You ask, as you have told me, so I have to answer. I'm talking about reporters, the false news. Be well, thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u48	Thanks to the Deputy Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity Mr. Petropoulos. We move to the second with number 541/28-2-2017, a topical question for the Achaias MP of the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Theodoros Papatheodorou to the Minister for Migration Policy, on the immediate need to ensure the proper operation of Moria's First Reception Centre. The Member's timely question will be answered by the Minister for Migration Policy, Mr Ioannis Mousalas. Mr. Papatheodorou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Mr President. We are addressing an issue, Minister, which I think is of interest not so much to restore security at the reception centres of refugees, but because in some of these centres there are particular problems, and I think that you - and we too - have expressed the same interest in dealing with such phenomena. I am talking specifically about the first reception centre in Moria, where two and a half thousand people live there, of which five hundred still in tents - and of course the figure has been reduced in relation to previous states in December - and where there have been too many phenomena, crime cases involving human trafficking, drug trafficking, prostitution and another number of situations which are causing a problem in the living of the refugees in Moria. You said recently, Minister - and I kept it - that the conditions in these camps, in these centres on the islands, are not good. You said it a week ago. My question is not just about living conditions. It is about how we could deal with such phenomena, because we cannot deal with crime as a whole. But when we know that from the two and a half thousand people who live on the JEPS, at the reception centre of Moria, there are at the same time unaccompanied minors in different sections, there are women alone, there are refugees of different nationalities, as is a zone of infraction, which you and I know of it, you and I could decide on the decongestion of this centre. The temporary relocation of some of the most vulnerable groups to another region, apart from, of course, Lesvos, so that the situation can be decongested and better controlled. Today all the police forces on the island are well aware that they are involved in refugee. Therefore, when there are private canteen selling alcohol and other substances to refugees outside this centre, you understand that such a phenomenon cannot be tackled easily. Thank you and I will come back.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Mr. Papatheodorou. Immigration Policy Minister Munich has the floor for his prototype. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u51	Mr President, Mr Papatheodorou, I believe that your question is more addressed to the Ministry of Civil Protection than to me. But if I came here, it's out of respect to your face and because I found out you visited Moria, which shows a real interest. What I can tell you is that in Lesvos, as in the other islands, we are making a very great effort. The circumstances weren't good, they'll be good, and then they'll lose again. What do I mean by that? The crime you describe relates to the situation in which they live. When there are two and a half thousand people in Moria with tents, with all that you said, and that was the truth a month and a half ago, it is very difficult to monitor the violation. It is also extremely difficult to prevent inconsistency if there is no detention area, a pre-refugee centre. So we are returning to the policy we have asked for on these islands - and we know the difficulties that have been encountered and the contradictions we have had here - that together with Moria and the improvement of the conditions that you have seen, and I think that you have seen a great deal of effort going on here now - there are a hundred seventeen tents left, which will also be gone - so you must also support the fact that there is a place to improve the conditions of residence. It also needs to be done what is necessary for the Europe-Turkey Agreement to work, for asylum to function, for the appeal committees: a detention area. I can't answer you where the Civilian Ministry is thinking about creating this place and how. I can tell you that a small detention area is being renewed, which is in place, but as I have said before in Parliament, within such a camp, if a detention facility is being set up, it is a source of anomaly in the future. And that's something you understand. And to finish, I mean, I appreciate you being there as very positive. About private canteen: The municipality's licenses. We've made a document to the police about alcohol. I mean, what is the Ministry of Immigration doing? But let me tell you what we're doing. Now, in the last week, we've been turning the container, the tent, and we've been wetting and handing cards to their tongues, where we say alcohol and all that stuff is forbidden. Our intention is when the conditions exist, the one who brings addictive substances into the camp, the one who is violent, can be isolated in the pre-regions centre and very quickly to finish the asylum of the detained person and return to Turkey. I'm ending up with this. Unaccompanied minor. When you guys went there, I think, 11 inside, and now we have nine. There's no more than five days left. We've built structures over there where minors go but it depends every time, you know, and the boat coming. So it happened once that in Chios, for example, they sent a boat that everyone was like that. There are difficulties. However, your remarks are correct and we are trying too hard for that. We're dismantling the islands. We are, of course, dismantling them within the framework of the Europe-Turkey Agreement, which I am sure you have no objection to. I conclude by saying that we need the support of the Democratic Integration and of people like you, so that the conditions of residence can be improved and that there can finally be a special area as a pre-exporting centre, a closed centre, a detention centre.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr Papatheodorou, Member of the Democratic Alliance, has the floor for his dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u53	Minister, you have raised many issues. I really didn't ask your colleague, the Minister of Civil Protection, because what is important is living in conditions. I did visit and collaborate with the general of the Greek Police, who is making very friendly efforts to deal with crime. There is nothing to deal with, as long as the living conditions are what we have described - and this is about the composition of the population. Now I wonder if you want the pre-repeal centre to be on the same island or somewhere else, or if you want to have another type of management, for example, to get the asylum from where it is located, i.e. the asylum services within the camp, inside the camp and relocate this service somewhere else. I say this because you do not have your hands tied up by the agreement on such actions. Besides, I think, Minister, you have seen the last decision of the General Court, which does not speak of an agreement between the European Union and Turkey. Indeed, it says that not only are they inaccurate when it comes to an agreement, but the court itself speaks of the March 2016 statement. It says that no institution - and I think it is very important, because this can support the policy of temporary relocation - neither the European Council nor any other Union institution has decided to conclude an agreement between the European Union and Turkey. There isn't. What do we got? We have a statement from the Heads of State with the Turkish Prime Minister. And what else? That even assuming that an informal international agreement could be concluded at the meeting of 18 March 2016, this agreement was concluded by the Heads of State and with the Turkish Prime Minister only. So, what's the deal, which ties you up right now, so that you can't temporarily relocate a series of population groups located in this particular centre, but also in other islands? I have the impression that there is a commitment from the Prime Minister that these people should not leave the islands and stay there. Because when we have hospitality centres with two and a half thousand refugees, who are in a very small area, you understand that not only will there be crime, but we also have to make our cross that we had no worse until today. I conclude by telling you this: since this agreement is not binding, why do you not go to immediate disarmament measures, so that there are fewer cases of crime, in an area where you know that it cannot be a school, a health centre, a asylum office, a record agency, and that, today, after so long, there are a hundred seventy scenes, as you have said? But again, the problem is not going to be solved. Only by dismantling these centres can it be resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Mr. Papatheodorou. Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u55	I honestly think that in your dentistry, you're entering a dangerous road. Listen very calmly to see whether or not what has been concluded between the European Union and Turkey, to the Prime Ministers of the European Union and Turkey, has brought, in our country, a reduction in inputs from seven thousand a day and two and a half thousand when the borders were closed, in seventy to one hundred a day. We will defend that. On this basis, therefore, as it may be said, we cannot transfer them. I have tabled a previous question to Parliament, which I have written to both Turks and Timermans and Abrahamopoulos, to all of them. Mr. Avramopoulos came and said so. Please, there's no reason why we shouldn't do it, if we weren't afraid that doing this thing, it would collapse an agreement. The deal, the statement, as you wish, say it. And then we won't have what to say to the world. So I would like us to be united here. These are words that are easily spoken, but they may result in a very difficult and bad result for the country. I'm sure that's not your intention. Finally, I should like to say that what you have said shows exactly how much we need your help and help from all democratic arcs, so that we can solve the problem. Because, in fact, two and a half thousand in a small area creates this problem. You saw that I first said crime was about living conditions. What does that mean? That means getting them inland. That means that the deal can be terminated. So what's left? There will be a larger space that will not be unbearable and will help the asylum. You're right. I forgot to mention that we are currently in agreement with EASO to transfer both to Chios and to Mytilini the asylum services and the services of EASO out of hand. This will give us more space in it and avoid the incursions and pressures of riots and microproblems that are created.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, Minister for Migration Policy, Mr. Muzala. Subsequently, there will be debated under number 1084/10-11-2016, question by the Independent MEP, Mr. Theocharis Theocharis, to the Minister of Finance, on the possible risk of limitations in potential tax cases of political persons relating to the General Secretariat of Public Revenues, the Body of Prosecutors of Economic Crime and the lists of depositors abroad. Mr Theocharis' question will be answered by the Minister of Finance, Mr Catherine Papanatziou. Mr. Theochari, you have the floor for two minutes to develop your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Mr President. Let me start by expressing my indignation, because this government is not answering the questions. We have here an example of a question that will be answered. I have, however, made twenty-two unanswered questions and four - twenty-six, that is to say, the whole - they have only been answered. It is not possible to continue this practice by a government which writes the Greek Parliament in its earlier shoes. Mr President, Minister, we are living this paradox. In 2015, by law you decided to transfer three and a half thousand cases of the ILO to GDR, now an Independent Authority. In the next planning, you were talking about three thousand nine hundred forty - seven tax cases. Eventually no one learned how many were transferred. Since 10 March 2016, I was asking the following questions a year ago: How many cases remain under the jurisdiction of the ILO? How are they treated given the reduction of the staff of the IORP? How many cases remain that are appeals at the IORP? Of the five hundred employees who were transferred to the GDR, how many were put into positions with a control order so that they could proceed with the cases? How do you plan to be assigned to the new ILO? Date of UN designation: 23.1.2016. Look, the extensions of limitations lead to taxes dealing with cases that do not bring revenues. That is to say, the person who gives extensions of limitations does not want the tax to be collected. But I am convinced that in specific cases, such as the cases of politics, the treatment of these cases must be different, because they may be retained, but they are of essential moral and political interest. That is why we need to see these cases again. Unjust enrichment of political persons, the dark paths of political money, where they are assumptions that affect the credibility of the political system and ultimately of our own democracy. That is why we must be more stringent in these cases. On the basis of these, then, I asked: First, did the transfer from the ILO to the GDR of about four thousand cases completed? How many of them are left in the ILO? How are the cases carried over in terms of results and in terms of tax revenues being assessed? On what criteria were the cases transferred to the GDR selected? Are there - and this is what I want to hear, Minister - cases of political Members of Parliament, ministers, Secretary-General or their relatives, on those lists which have been delivered to the Greek authorities and are at risk of being registered? Is there an update on political persons on Borgians' lists or on other depositors' lists? Are there any tax cases of first-degree political persons or relatives who were not transferred to the GDR and who were allowed to be registered? And most importantly of all, we have asked the Minister to inform the Committee on Institutions and Transparency of such cases of tax evasion of political persons - Members of Parliament, Ministers and Secretary-General - and of such persons of political interest, who are in general on these lists of depositors abroad, and of cases that have not been transferred from the ILO to the GDR. So we have not seen the possibility of informing the Committee on Institutions and Transparency, and I would like to ask if, Minister, at last, you intend to inform the Committee on Institutions and Transparency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Mr. Theocharis. The State Secretary for Finance, Mr. Catherine Papanatziou, responds. Madam Secretary, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u59	Mr President, Mr Theochra, our Government has often demonstrated that combating all forms of tax evasion is our main priority. Therefore, the smooth transfer of tax and customs matters from the Special Secretariat of the IAEA to the former General Secretariat of Public Revenues and now an independent Public Revenue Authority was our primary objective mainly for the purpose of the optimal handling of these cases, the strengthening of the fiscal awareness of citizens, the fight against tax infraction and the removal of the maximum financial benefit for our country. As regards the question of the transfer of the cases by the IAEA, we state that, for the purpose of implementing the provisions of Law 4336/2015, the transfer of the two thousand and fifty-five of a case, which is included in a relevant practical finding of the Committee, has been completed following the adoption of a relevant Ministerial Decision. There is also a second ministerial decision to set up the committee which is also tabled in the Minutes. The procedure and the criteria for selecting these cases were also laid down by Ministerial Decision. Finally, the delivery by the ILO has long been completed at the Finance Office of the thousand and sixty cases proposed by the Financial Prosecutor in order to coordinate their further handling. By virtue of the provisions of Law 4410/2016, the issue of transport of all other tax and customs matters has been settled by the IAEA to the tax authority. A subsequent Ministerial Decision dealt with matters relating to the transfer of these other cases to the tax authority. Delivering committees were also appointed by the ILO and the tax authority. The procedure for the transfer of other cases is under way in cooperation with the relevant departments. In addition, for the purpose of transfer of cases, the Ministry of Finance was set up to coordinate services, to resolve specific issues and to monitor progress in the transfer. In particular, in cases which constitute appeals, the Office shall be instructed on a case-by-case basis by the competent Public Prosecutor. Finally, electronic recording has taken place in all cases transported. Therefore, in accordance with the provisions of Laws 4336/2015 and 4410/2016, all tax and customs matters shall be transferred by the IAEA to the tax authority without any exception whatsoever. The provisions of Law 4410/2016, as supplemented by Law 4446/2016, introduced a three-year extension of the limitation on the assumptions of the Special Secretariat of the ILO which in any way fall within the jurisdiction of the tax authority in accordance with the provisions of Law 4336/2015. In addition to Law 4446/2016, the time limits for the limitation of the public’s right to adopt acts of administrative, estimated or corrigendum of tax and any other act to impose taxes, fees, fines or contributions ending on 31-12/2016 are extended by one year after the end of the year for cases in which they have been issued at the time of publication of that law or were issued until 31/12/2016 by the Public Prosecutors, inquiries, investigations or processing orders, or requests for investigation by a judicial or tax or audit authority, as well as by the Anti-Counterfeiting of Income from Criminal Acts and the Financing of Terrorism and Control of Terrorism State Declarations. As regards the lists of depositors, these are the subject of appeals and the instructions for the transfer and further handling of them are received by the Advocate-General responsible. The same shall apply to any orders made by the EPPO relating to the control of political persons. For the above, a document from the Special Secretariat of the IORP and a document from the Independent Public Revenue Authority shall be submitted to the Practical Document. For the specific subject-matter of cases under investigation with the Special Secretariat of the ILO and the Tax Authority or in a transfer procedure, and in particular with regard to the issues of the lists forming the Public Prosecutor's Orders, you know that their procedure is covered by the principle of secrecy of the proceedings, the criminal proceedings and any results will be announced upon completion of the relevant investigations.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Mrs. Undersecretary. Mr. Theochari, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u61	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, I'm sorry, because unfortunately I don't see any answers. You replied that two thousand seven hundred fifty-one cases were transferred, plus one thousand hundred ninety-six who were handed over to the prosecutor the three thousand ninety-seven cases, you chose the three thousand nine hundred forty-seven and then you send the rest. Therefore, all cases leave the ILO and go to the independent authority. In other words, the EUR 5 cases, the known ‘typical typing’ which have become a joke, which the ILO was going to pay for 10 and 20 and 50 fines. Even with these cases we are dealing with. I repeat that when we are giving extensions and putting the right cases together with them, which are useless, we are actually covering up. And you come here and plead classified so that you don't even inform the Committee on Institutions and Transparency? Are there any cases of ministers which, for example, are controlled by the Regional Directorate of the ILO of Crete? Are there any cases of relatives of ministers controlled by the Regional Directorate of Attica? These cases were transferred? Say in particular: Have they been carried? They're offline? What about these cases? And if there are such cases, you are obliged to take them to the Committee on Institutions and Transparency. There is no confidentiality and no question that you must or can invoke. Furthermore, since 10 November, the same day that I tabled the question, the system was obviously mobilised. Because on the same day, urgent information was requested from the Secretary-General on what assumptions will be selected in the DUs. So a system began to move, which apparently was until then in lethargy. However, the huge number of these control orders, the problems of the prioritisation system, the caravanisation of CEMP directors and CEMP directors, without their direct replacement, have led to huge delays. I didn't see any result of you telling me today. I have heard that they are being carried, that the committees have become, that they are being monitored for their transfer, but I have not heard whether they have entered the funds if these cases have brought us any results. It's been so long since the transfer. Besides, the Prime Minister told the Ministerial Council today - because you have also referred to it - that the government of SYRIZA is actually a government that is hitting corruption, hitting tax evasion and bringing growth. He told us that we are able to compose the music and the spring of the economy so that these fruits don't enjoy them a few and fifteen minutes later ELSTAT comes and takes these fruits and tells us they're rotten. The evidence comes to disprove in the most unequivocal way this account. There is no fight against the tax evasion you invoke. There's no growth. There's no corruption hit. You are plunging the economy into recession -1.1% for 2016-4 billion more taxes, you are firing out investment - DESFA, Qatar, Greek - you lose the game of unemployment with a hundred thousand jobs lost in the last four months, 800 million red loans, 3 billion euros continue bleeding in February, 3 billion deposits are lost in 2017. And the spring of the economy is heavy. So the only government actions with this development figure are direct assignments to promote customer relations and interactive, service party friends and recruitment and simulations by way of derogation from any provision, cuts of road projects, funds for feeding refugees to friends' businesses, unanswered complaints about the housekeepers of photographic provisions, loans granted below costs with zero or partial bank guarantee. That is to say, we continue our 'globalizing' practices and everything else. So it cannot go on with this. You must be able to put a class in, because that is why the Greek people have taken you out, not to continue practices for forty years, you have taken the manual of the previous governments and you have made it unfavourable. Please give answers, especially if there are cases in progress with political persons, you have an obligation to inform the House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, Mr. Theocharis. It will respond second-guessed by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Catherine Papanatziou. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u63	The aim of our Government since the first day has been to combat tax evasion, smuggling, corruption and black money, as I have said in my prototype. The political will is a basic prerequisite for success in this struggle, because if there is no political will, then all the measures, all the policies will not have a substantial effect. We also have the political will that the government that you participated in, Mr Theochari, did not have before it. The political alliances that maintained PASOK and New Democracy in power were based, among other things, on tax evasion and smuggling, corruption and black money. Political families, business families and banks, media groups created the triangle of interlocutory that fought us and fighting us rabies. We will oblige them to give in to legality. That is why we set up the Committee of Inquiry into the legality of loans to the media and political parties from the banks. That's why we fought to get a class on television licenses, and that's why we have old parties and their paranormals in front of us. That is why we have set rules restricting the movements of smugglers in fuel, tobacco and beverages. With regard to your question and to the political groups from the actions we have taken - and I mentioned earlier - it is clear that there will be no cases involving political persons and their relatives, for the simple reason that no case will be referred to, whatever the case may be, political person or otherwise, glamorous or not. Of course, from the position you served, you know that the principle of secrecy cannot be violated in the proceedings of the criminal proceedings. We can't start telling the lot of names, and you know that, even though you ask, I'd say provocatively. The time will come when the names will be spoken, but it will be in the context and at the moment that the law is laid down and is in the hands of the Independent Public Revenue Authority to proceed with these procedures at a rapid pace, so that this time can come faster and I think it will. And it might be interesting to tell us what you were doing with these cases and why you inherited them instead of completing them at the speed that they were appropriate. You yourself admitted two years ago in the British newspaper 'TELEGRAPH' that you were under political pressure to be tolerant. You said in the same interview that you were under threat. What did you do about it? Nothing! So you should tell us sometime more about the pressures you have accepted, tell us names and addresses. Parliament is the right place to say this in the most official way and not to confine yourself to some British newspaper for the impression of the international public and then let it be forgotten. In this way you will also participate, you will become more specific in your complaints, if you want to offer some service in this race, which you did not offer when you had all the institutional authority to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, Mr Papanatsiou. Congressman Anna - Michelle Asmakopoulou asks for permission from a short-day absence abroad, namely in France, during the period from 9 March to 16 March 2017 for family reasons. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u65	The House therefore approved the requested permission. We move on to the debate of the first under No 536/24-2-2017 on the first question of the first cycle of the Member of Parliament, Mr Spyridonos - Adonidos Georgiadis, on the statement by the Deputy Minister of Health on “experienced” prices of certain medicines in the period before January 2015. The Deputy Minister for Health will answer Mr. Paul Polakis. Mr. Georgiadis, you have two minutes to develop your question in your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u66	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Minister, you have given a series of interviews, we have had here in this House a very strong debate. I don't think it's good for our political system to be shadowed. First of all, I have nothing personal to do with you. I'm sure Mr. Tsipras put you in. Mr Tsipras' policy is simply applying what Mr Tsipras said halfway through the Step of the House and with which no one has dealt - strange for the Prime Minister - you undertake to do so in a special way. You blamed me for two things: First, for a list of twenty-three appointments to CEDEFOP that I signed. On the show by Mr Aimiliou Liatsu, in which you had the pleasure - quite symptoms, I imagine, and not at all in preconsent! - to intervene and then close the phone, you committed that list you will submit it to the House today. I'm waiting to get her. I imagine that this list, as the majority Member asks in writing, is on the agenda. Nikolopoulos!, will have my letter, will have my signature, will somehow have the interconnection of any names you have or think you have with my face. And of course, we will also finally learn from these twenty-three if they are appointed permanent officials in CEDEFOP, if they are appointed by a fixed-term contract, what are these twenty-three at all. So first you file the list, the paper you have, and then I'll comment on it if I know that paper. Now we're going to the drugs. You have gone through the fact - and I shall be tabling a motion for a resolution on the Minutes of this House, Mr President - that in our days - and I put in and my predecessors, which you mentioned - in the years of the ministers whom Mr Paulakis accuses of having been wasted on the pharmaceutical expenditure, totalling 60.8% in 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014, that is to say on the ministers - in order - Lovertou, Salma, Georgiadis, Voridis, the pharmaceutical expenditure in Greece has been reduced by 60.8%. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, Mr. President. We're the ones accused of parties in drugs, reduced the drug expenditure by 60.8%. I am tabling this paper, which records how much you have reduced your pharmaceutical expenditure in the two years you have been in power. Official paper I haven't found on it. [[At this point the Member, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] But you also accused me of a medicine 'Lucentis'. You said on the show I mentioned, that the price of 'Lucentis' was affected by my ministerial decision. You said you said that "it had to be sold 500 euros and because of Georgiadis was sold 750 euros". You said in word - I imagine the show you've seen many of you, but if you haven't seen it, I'll get it up on YouTube - that 250 euros was a 10 million-dollar gift in the company. I present the official list of medicinal products by the 'Green'. [[At this point the Member, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] When I took over the Ministry of Health, the drug had 939 euros. When I left, he had 839 euros, that is, his price came down to 100 euros a year. Today, 745 euros are sold. In two years' time, governance SYRIZA has come down another 100 euros, namely half the rate of reduction than in my own days. I am surprised, Minister, that - and I am presenting this in the Minutes - that by my ministerial decision the price of 'Lucentis' had to be EUR 500, as you said on the show, you two years of government, why did you leave it to 750 euros and continue to make gifts to the pharmaceutical company 'NOVARTIS'? Since I did, and you did, why didn't you change the honor, Minister, in two years of SYRIZA Minister? Finally - so as not to abuse the time - you mentioned this - you have unfortunately admitted it and I shall refer to it in detail - that although the law stipulates - I present relevant GMs of my ministerial decision here and your own, your government - that the Ministry of Health must issue two price sheets a year, where each price sheet has compulsory underwriting only in cases of previous errors and the price sheet has 7% to 10% of total expenditure, you said that in 2015 the SYRIZA Government - ANEL forgot to implement the law and issue the price sheet. [[At this point the Member, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned FECs, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] In fact, on the show you mentioned 'we had our minds in the negotiation'. But, because you, Minister, had your mind in the negotiation, did the pharmaceutical companies have to earn about EUR 500 million from the price difference of medicines that you forgot to issue?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u67	Finish, Mr. Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u68	I'm closing, Mr. President. So, first, you can file the list with my own signature with the twenty-three names to see who they are, as promised. Secondly, why have you not taken Lucentis' price at the price of EUR 500, as you said on TV that it should be, and you are selling it today? Thirdly, to inform the House of why you have given a gift to the pharmaceutical industry of EUR 500 million. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, Mr. Georgiadis. The Deputy Minister for Health will answer for three minutes, Mr. Paul Paulakis. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u70	I'm going to need some more time, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u71	Good, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u72	Mr. Georgiades, when I hear you speak, I think of a sceptic double that we have in Crete, which says: "We have made a lot of lies, to say a truth, we have loaded a nine-pound pink mouse." I start, because I, as you know, am always very specific. It came to my hands a long time ago and a list was sent to the Prosecutor's office that obviously does not have your signature, because it is a list of ruffles and in which, next to twenty three names, all the recruitment has become the time that you were Minister at CEDEFOP - with too many at the Ministry of Health and Social Security - there is the name of Mr. Theodoratos, you know that...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u73	Give it to the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u74	I will give it to you, Mr Georgiadis, because in the House it is officially because it is part of the case-file, you know that it cannot be submitted. I'll give it to you in your hands.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u75	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u76	Don't laugh, sit calm and sit down.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u77	Very well.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u78	So these twenty-three names are next to Mr Theodoratos's name. You know him. I think he was a close associate of yours, director, and your office a moon, etc. As a recommendation to CEDEFOP, it has your name, "Adonis" and the name of your wife in one of these names. For the purpose of protecting personal data, I will mention only three - four names of them here, I will say them publicly because they have come out and they are the following: Ms Demedis Ioanna was appointed to the ERIC on 18-9-2013 to 31-5-2014. This lady - if anyone searches the Internet, she'll see it all - was an unpaid associate of your Press Office. There are even a few sceptic articles, because this is a very vivid lady, who had aerobic studies, etc., Library and who was responsible for your press office and is appointed to the CEDEFOP.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u79	Since when?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u80	From 18-9-2013 to 31-5-2014. You have an expression of wonder on your face. All contracts I will mention expire 31-5-2014, a few days before you leave the Ministry. So it seems in this list that this lady was made available to the Ministry of Health and Social Security. So, you had her as a partner at the press office, you said she was unpaid, because you obviously had crossed the counseling limit, which was far more than the ones we have today, and you got her and cut her off from the CDC. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] Secondly, there are two other names, one Theodoratos John, rather a relative of the other Mr. Theodoratos and his wife, a Mrs. Ioannidou, who is also appointed to the CEDEFOP, who is probably your partner. In fact, they take and intervene in the community. Now what interventions in the community are, I don't know. And they are appointed from 1-11-2013 to 31-5-2014 and from 15-7-2013 to 31-5-2014. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] Take care now of a more stricken one that's not at twenty-three. He's twenty-fourth. You have a partner named Vasilis Bescany. Do you know him? He was the responsible person - and he appears in the "Guarantee" - of your Press Office at the Ministry, which you had there on a salary basis. It is therefore apparent that on 30-6-2014 Mr Bescany takes over and sign a contract in the CEDEFOP. In other words, you left 7, 8 or 10 July - I think, somewhere there - and on 30-6-2014 Mr. Beskanis, who until that time was your partner and paid to your Press Office at the Ministry, is taking over and signing a contract with the CIF. And what's Mr. Beskanis, who's an IC from what I understand? He says he's hired to work as a partner in the community intervention department, from 1-7-2014 to 31-12-2014. So, your partner...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u81	I wasn't a Minister at the time...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u82	That's what I'm saying. You're just done.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u83	Minister, please be brief. You have a dentist too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u84	Mr President, listen, I would ask for a courtesy because I, when I say a few things, am very crowded and wanted.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u85	Give him time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u86	And we might get a fuss, swinging the fingers, boiling and so on. And helpers and the media, but this is where we speak of certain elements. So this gentleman, as soon as you're done, and you leave the Ministry, obviously discovers his secret talents, let's say, in relation to the epidemiological surveillance of the AIDS patients, from other programmes, etc. and carry out six months in the CEDEFOP. The Director of your Press Office. A similar story is happening - I say the three names publicly, because there are other names here...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u87	Say more. Say it all.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u88	Calm down, calm down. I understand your position, but calm. We have other things. Here is another lady - I will say this - Mrs Makatrava Friday, who is a sister of a lady, who is also appointed from 15-7-2013 to 31-05-2014, who is probably a sister of a lady with whom you have a company, which you say in your "possibly", I have a feeling. Is that the "Greek Education"? Am I right?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u89	'Greek Appeal'.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u90	The "Greek Appeal", I'm sorry. The "Greek Order", therefore, is a company that you declare and you have 70%. But this company, I see, has 49% of an ALS S.A. company. tours, publications, conferences, which is anonymous. So you have the "Greek Appeal" with 70%, which has the company "ALS S.A.", which you set up since 2001, together with Mr. Kissandrakis - a canalarch - and which you do not declare to your "substantially" in recent years, while it appears from the last balance sheet published in 2014, that the "Greek Treatment", of which you have 70%, has 49% of S.A., called "ALS". "ALS" - take your head a little! - It belongs to Mr Kissandrakis, who is a shareholder in the "HRAKLIS MEDIA" and the "GENERAL RADIOVICES S.A. BLUE SKY, who “all accidentally” in 2014 got from CEDEFOP advertising pie around 100,000 euros while you were Minister. Apparently, he put on some CDC ads. Do you think it's moral - I don't know if it's legal - that you should be the minister who owns an EIA, who has almost the majority package of a company that you made, together with a partner, that the partner has a channel and gets a hundred grand of the CEDEFOP the year you're a Minister? I don't know how moral this thing is. Let's go a little bit further.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u91	Minister, how much further? Please. You've already reached eight and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u92	Please, Mr. President, leave him alone.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u93	Please, Mr. Georgiadis. It's not your personal business. There's a certain timeframe. We are giving the necessary tolerance from the Bureau, and the Minister has asked for it. They expect other colleagues to support their questions. Please! You have the time of your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u94	I'll answer the drugs to dentistry. I'll just say a word. Look what came today from the CDC, finally for these twenty-three names. Because, then, it is obvious that these people were appointed during the period you were there - they all left on the same day - rather most of them you used as partners and because CEDEFOP was out of public account, you did what you wanted. I don't have any of the people personally, either, but, anyway, when we see an illegality, we said that's what we're going to find out. We gave it to the D.A. and we're waiting to look into it. Because now - if anyone listens to me, he finally has it in his hands and I don't see anything happening. And today comes a paper, which says this about these twenty-three names, with the signatures of the head of the Administrative Department and the responsibility of the Department of Economic Management of the CEDEFOP today. Watch what he says.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u95	In the Minutes, testify.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u96	Don't tell me what to testify. I'm saying it in public. Is that the point, if I testify? Listen a little. He says: ‘As regards this list, these names, the Administrative Coordination Department and the information kept therein, we shall inform you that the names mentioned in the attached document had nothing to do with the institution IDU and IDU, as substantiated by the human resources register.’ They didn't. That's why I'm saying if anyone's listening to us. ‘Secondly, as regards the Department of Economic Management, which is held at the Sales Office, there is an unpaid relationship between these persons, but because of the confiscation of the file, we cannot see them.’ I mean, you burned the contracts, erased them, assigned them there. Looks like they're having an affair here. If anyone listens, that's a crime.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u97	Minister, please, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u98	Do you understand? You appointed them there, you hid them, because they were obviously partners and because these...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u99	Read exactly what the paper says.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u100	Mr. Georgiadis, you will have time in your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u101	No, read it. Read the paper.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u102	Minister, second call from the Bureau to complete your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u103	I understand your situation. As far as the Department of Economic Management is concerned, a relationship has arisen from the information kept at the place of the place of lease, but as a result of the overall commitment of the natural archives seized by the prosecutor, it cannot be determined whether the exact kind is correct.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u104	The first paragraph says what it says!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u105	But that's what I'm saying. That crime. That's from the D.A., they seem to be paid, without showing the contract. This is a crime.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u106	Minister, third and last warning. I'll cut you off, Minister. I'll turn off the microphone. Please, you've reached twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u107	The first half is over. The second half will be harder.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u108	Excuse me, Mr Georgiadis, but before I give you the floor, I would like to tell you, Minister, that I do not know what you intend to do about the second half, but I will inform you that the three-minute period you have will be observed, let me give you a minute extra tolerance. I have been telling you that I will interrupt your speech. Mr. Georgiadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u109	I have here a piece of paper that came to me... [[Noise in the Chamber]] You're very welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u110	Please be quiet, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u111	Keep my time, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u112	Please, ladies and gentlemen, be quiet. Calm down. Mr. Georgiadis has the floor. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u113	Minister, I have a handwritten paper that came into my office - I cannot give it to you because it is sensitive personal data - and it has twenty-three names. Next to it, it says who appointed them to the CDC. It reads "Nikos Papas", "Andreas Blondos", "Panagiotis Kouroublis", "Blondos", "Kouroublis", "Kouroublis", "Pappas", "Xanthos". You don't have one. But I can't give it to you, because it's sensitive personal data and, you know, it doesn't have the signature of Mr. Pappas, Mr. Xanthos or Mr. Kurublis. But I tell you that they are faces appointed by Mr. Blonde, by Mr. Kurublis and Mr. Papa. As much as this card is worth, so much is the paper, which you mentioned. I will only refer to two, because it is a pity that you have become Minister, lead the CEDEFOP, and do not understand what a paper is written. The paper you read, if I understood correctly, says that these twenty-three names have nothing to do with IDUs, i.e. an indefinite amount of time or IDUs, or IDUs, i.e. a certain period of time. In common, they have never been appointed to the CEDEFOP. The second violation of the administrative department is, obviously, what you should know, the big scandal - the private donations that the CEDEFOP has. You should know that CICPN has actions that offer private companies that pay private companies and these people have nothing to do with either IDUs or IDUs. So, you are obviously talking about people who I do not know who they are - and I shall refer to the names you have said, I will not avoid them at all - but if I ask a Member how many people have been hired to work with CEDEFOP and how many are IDUs and IDUs, it will be different, because CEDEFOP uses employees who are paid by private companies. That's what writes you the famous document that, although Minister, you haven't understood yet. As far as I'm concerned, you're Minister and you haven't understood the basics. When I declare one company, the "ELLENIKI GROUP E.P." and this company is a shareholder in another company, I do not declare the second company, but the first company. In declaring the first company, all the assets of the first company follow my "subjects". Minister, if you do not have this, after twice as Minister, how do you even sign a ministerial decision? You're at the edge of the granule, if you understand that. I'm sorry about the phrase. Thirdly, you cannot find the company "ALS S.A.", because I have sold it to Mr. Kissandrakis for years. It is no longer the property of the "Hellenic Energy Agency" for many years. So, one more reason is that, when I was Minister, it wasn't mine. I have left the administration of these companies with FEK since the first day I became a Member of Parliament. I shall now refer to the names you have just said, so that I do not appear to be avoiding them. What did you say? You said about Mrs. Dementis. Mrs. Demendi stayed at the Department of Health for several months after my leave from the Ministry. In fact, he worked at the Ministry of Health and the first days of your Government. I don't understand why you're changing dates. I haven't seen any of her conventions, and I can't say any more. But I know that about a month ago, I participated in a conference organised by Mrs. Dementi. Do you know who was her official guest? It was Kostas Zachariadis, the Director of your parliamentary group. I don't know why you've got that particular lady in mind. You have a psychological issue. I can't interpret it any more. With me, it doesn't have anything to do with it. Now let's go to the other names you said. In order to be able to judge what you have said seriously, you should, at least for the names you have decided to disclose, Minister, have submitted their contracts to Parliament. After you said that for the sake of sensitive personal data you do not say the other names, at least for the three names that you decided to reveal in your own judgment, I expect to see the contracts with the CEDEFOP and what money they received from the CEDEFOP. Everything else is like throwing mud into the fan. The most important, of course, is something else. Dear Mr. Xydakis, you refer to a journalist, in particular Mr. Beskinis, on the television of SKAI, in such a steep way, as CEDEFOP, before my office and after my service, did not always make contracts with journalists and did only because of Adois Georgiadis! As far as the money at the BLUE SKY is concerned, why you were referring to the BLUE SKY television station - first of all, pay it back to him, because you have not paid it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u114	But that's it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u115	This is the first and most important. The invoices you mentioned were unpaid. He's paid the VAT too. He calls me every day and says: 'Do a question in the House, I have not been paid'. So he's not paid. You mentioned the money of a man, who has a television station to which you are also advertising. Every day they are your colleagues on Mr. Akis Pavlopoulou's show and they see ads playing. You haven't paid him, and you've abandoned me that I've shown a favorable treatment. Hey, it's too much, Mr. Polakis! So go to Mr. BLUE SKY', pay him what you owe him. Keep giving ads to him and anyone else you want and according to the law. No lawlessness and no favor was in my day. The channel is real. The emissions are real. And Mr Xydakis, I think we are seeing him at the BLUE SKY, but I may also be wrong. But we certainly see too many of SYRIZA's. Now let's go to the big part. Because here, as you understood, you have no idea, you did not bring the paper you were going to table in the Minutes, you did not submit it, even though you said on Mr Liappi's show that you were going to submit it. I imagine that from now on you will never say this again, because - I want to make this clear and write it in the Minutes - so far I have been waiting for this day too, to see if you can submit the paper to see how these names are connected with me. As I understand it, ladies and gentlemen - and Mr Nicholas asked - neither is my signature nor my letter of letter of letter there is any connection with me at all, nor is there anything at all but your fantasies. Since today, since you have not submitted the paper, and since you have clearly said that you are talking about a manuscript of paper, without stamps and signatures, who knows who might have made it, and because I have a similar text to Mr Papapas and Mr Kurublis and Mr Blonde - so we have each of us from a paper - I come to tell you very much, since you have gone to justice, to let justice judge. If you continue to give interviews and muddle my honor and reputation, my next move will be to sue you anymore, since I can't sue you, and ask you for compensation. But you, where you are the transparent preacher of all this, Mr Polakis, tell me now - and look at me well, because I am not Paulakis - when you go well - I want you to look at me very well - I want you to be in prison, Adonis Georgiadis. And now here's why. On 19-9-2016, there is - I give paperwork to the Minutes, I'm not like you - the public Prosecutor's order asking the CPO to provide the details of the intervention Paulaki's appointments. On 9 February the director of administrative staff sent Mr Rosenberg - and Mr Panotopoulos also asks for these papers, which they would give to Greek justice. Do you know Mr. Panotopoulos, Mr. Polakis?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u116	Very well.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u117	Mr. Panotopoulos is appointed in your office. Take the man's Vegetable that he received. And then, as by magic, Mr. Rosenberg listen to what he did. He sent the prosecutor, not the papers that Mrs Theophilopoulou gave to him - which I have given to the Minutes - but what Mr Panotopoulos decided, namely Paulis, and, in fact, one tenth of the relevant information. So to make people understand it, the D.A. asked for the evidence. Rosenberg didn't send the evidence directly to the prosecutor, but he sent it to Paul. And Paulakis sent them to the D.A., hampering them. Do you know what that's called? Take the relevant post from the newspaper "REAL NEWS" by Nikos Hadjikolaou and the press reports of CEDEFOP employees, according to which when the time comes, you will go where you need to. [[At this point the Member, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Finally, you said nothing, Minister, about drugs.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u118	Now I'll say.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u119	I want my question to be heard, so I can close. In 2015, in accordance with the applicable legislation, you had to issue two price sheets. You didn't issue anyone. One was issued at the end of the year. While every six months we must have one, that is, two years a year, we have not had one, because that has been true since next year. None. So in 2015, SYRIZA - ANEL government gave the pharmaceutical industry a gift of over 500 million euros. How did he do the gift? Because, yes, we put the clawback on and they didn't pay any more of the funds, but our fellow citizens who went to pharmacy paid for their participation in more expensive drug prices than those they should have paid if your Government did its job. I would therefore like you to tell me why you have not applied the law - which I am passing away until today - if you are going to look for responsibilities because that has not happened and, secondly, for the two papers, my ministerial decision on prices - which I do the tricks! - which reads: 'The maximum producer price of reference medicinal products under the protection regime is defined as the average of the three lowest prices of the Member States of the European Union...', '... must be reviewed regularly downwards whenever a price sheet is published. For the first time a medicine must have been invoiced in at least three European Union States.’ This is the Georgian Ministerial Decision. [[At this point the Member, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And I'm closing down with NoVARTIS. Because you accused me of LUCENTIS, for which you did not say anything, I expect you to tell me why two years of government SYRIZA is sold at EUR 745 and not at EUR 500, as you said. This means that 250 euros are sold more accurately, your statement, the period of your service. And you have a responsibility.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u120	Come on, please, Mr. Georgiadis. We have to finish!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u121	I'll be right back, Mr. President. I would point out, however, to the world - and I put it - the turnover of the company 'NOVARTIS'. The Minister of Agriculture dropped 40m euros, while on Poliaki's behalf he remained stable. [[At this point the Member, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] To know and who helps 'NOVARTIS' and who helps the pharmaceutical industries and who cut the costs and who is a whole lot of trouble, but to bring money to the public funds and reduce expenditure, nothing! I am waiting, Minister, for the paper on how much you have reduced the cost of medicine. Me and my predecessors have reduced it to 60.8%, and while we did this, we have covered the insurers too - your other great lie! - with the two Voridis-Georgiadis ministerial decisions. So that you don't get rid of it and that people know that although we've lowered expenditure by 60.8%, we've also covered two and a half million uninsured both in medicine and in hospitals. And that's not what you did, as you're lying! [[At this point the Member, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] So I am waiting for you to tell us, firstly, how much you have reduced expenditure, secondly, why you are selling LUCENTIS more precisely, thirdly, why you did not get a price report in 2015 and whether criminal responsibilities will be attributed in 2015 and, fourthly, why you have concealed from the public prosecutor the original information provided by the CICP for your intervention in the files of the nominees in the ICMs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u122	Ladies and gentlemen, before I give the floor to the Minister, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, forty-four students and students and three educational attendants from the 7th High School of Ioannina. The House welcomes you guys. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Minister, you have the floor. But I would ask you very much to focus your response on the timely question. Don't open a new cycle of controversy. You have also raised various issues to which Mr Georgiadis gave some answers. It is a warm request, because other colleagues who have questions are waiting for them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u123	I shall reply to the other four colleagues, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u124	Yeah, but if the other colleagues who are right to protest, because I...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u125	Let me speak, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u126	You will have time, Minister. I repeat, therefore, that the other Members will complain, because I will interrupt them because they exceed time. So they're going to mess with the Bureau and possibly right. Therefore, I would ask you to respond very warmly within the time allowed. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u127	Good! But let me answer, Mr President. I think everyone who has listened to us has brains and they understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u128	Sure!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u129	In both the different cries and the various characterizations in relation to the perceptive ability of each of us, I think the comparison is more than enough. Here is the 2014 balance sheet, where it appears that the "Greek Appeal" holds 49% of the "ALS" S.A. So you did not leave it, but you gave the administration in 2007 when you came out as a member of LAOS. And right now, even to this day, this company's phone is in your name. Now, can I prove the evidence? That all these people were appointed to your service, they left ten days...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u130	For contracts, Minister! We have time, Minister! Tell us about the drugs!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u131	As far as contracts are concerned, Mr Georgiadis, do not worry. They'll be found. The D.A. has them in his hands. They answered very well. You just think this is a rhetorical lesson. Except that the fox is not now "hundred, a hundred per cent of the fox", when the other responds to the financial evidence that they have been rented a relationship. For the bank's list of employees cannot be erased and says to you 'I don't have the papers, because the prosecutor has confiscated them'.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u132	Let's go down! I explained it!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u133	It's a little shame to move the finger to us, which, for the first time in time since the existence of the CEPOL, we used CSCE criteria to make these appointments. And one of the reasons why we sent Mr Giannopoulos away was that the mechanism set up in there also went to do what he did over your days, namely to appoint on the basis of friends. That's what we stopped. Of course, listen...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u134	But the D.A. says.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u135	You filed the lawsuit. You filed the lawsuit. It's like he's become an autogovernment! You filed the lawsuit, Mr. Georgiadis. "The thief calls to be afraid of the housekeeper." Are we all right? Aren't we a little embarrassed? You challenged her. And from what I'm learning, this whole story goes back to file again.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u136	How do you know?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u137	How do I know? But it's been posted, Mr. Georgiadis, the case. He's posted!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u138	In justice, you learn...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u139	Mr. Georgiadis, don't interrupt now. Let him finish a little bit.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u140	But does he find out the case is going to be filed? What do we hear, Mr President, here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u141	Mr. Polakis, please don't address yourself that way. Place as you have decided to place yourself in order to complete the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u142	He had a number and he says he's an archivist, because he doesn't think she deserves to deal with your complaint.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u143	It's the House, I tell you, the file.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u144	Let's go down. We're just coming to the drug. Now I'm supposed to say some other veils, but I'm not telling them. To get in touch, we're talking about one quarter of the country's debt. We're talking about a quarter of the way you went bankrupt the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u145	What about me?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u146	You, the party you belong to.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u147	I reduced her. How much did you reduce her?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u148	You've been talking so long, I haven't interrupted you. And you were insulting too! Eighty-five billion euros - with the most moderate calculations - is the black money in the health sector from 1996 to 2010. Not that even today, they simply dropped the sums and reduced the hands that are partying to it. Pharmaceutical expenditure will remind you that it had reached EUR 9 billion in 2009 - basic public expenditure, which was EUR 7.5 billion and around EUR 1.5 billion in private participation. You know much better than I do - and nobody says - that you have built an EPOY, who inherited the 'good morning' of EUR 9 billion of debts from IKA alone. How? Your predecessors took money from the New Democracy and PASOK ministers before than pension contributions to fund the excavation of drug spending on drugs. And that's how the country went bankrupt. Because of these 85 billion, at least 40% to 45% are pharmaceutical expenditure. By 2010 there is a black hole in the way in which the invoicing of medicines was done, because it was done in the Ministry of Development, where there are many references to the fact that there was no way there. What we have all said and believed is the average of the three lowest prices in the European Union, are bullshit, Mr Georgiadis. It's bullshit!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u149	How much did you reduce expenditure?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u150	Don't interrupt me. A little modest. It's harder all the time. The average of the three countries - as can be seen from evidence provided to us by the EEA - was ultimately the prices in England, Germany and Switzerland. And it wasn't officially guaranteed the source that would draw the prices. There are complaints about the period before 2010 that these were drawn from similar like the Galen - not official databases that the states had - and there was 'the death of foxes' - to say so - within the Ministry of Development with how they were invoiced. Why did it happen? Because they were getting prices from these three countries - and they were then taken by Mr Loverdos and you - were getting the average, which are countries with precise prices, and once we were getting the price, they were taking another fifty-five countries that had us in the basket of countries from which they were getting the price. And there is here for your predecessor - it is for Mr Loverdo that, although you did exactly the same - an e-mail sent by Mr. Hallaris of the HICP to Mr. Salma for asking for evidence. He says, "Tell me, 'cause after 2010, the invoicing came to the Ministry of Health. And there came an employee from where they had the "know-how", how we did this, the one Mr. Maniadakis replaced him, who had been counseling him, and he did the same job, and took out the prices of drugs - don't raise your hand, so...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u151	Minister, sooner, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u152	Says here the e-mail...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u153	You're short.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u154	We need to respond in concrete terms!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u155	It can't be done. I'm so sorry! I'm so sorry!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u156	And it says here the e-mail...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u157	You've exceeded all the limits. I'm so sorry! You didn't come here...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u158	Mr President, 12 and a half minutes the Member spoke.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u159	The Rules stipulate in particular that...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u160	What Bureau are you? Let him talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u161	Mr. President!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u162	Please stop! Stop!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u163	Show an objectivity at last!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u164	Sit down. The Rules are clear. When a specific question is tabled and a timely question is raised, the competent Minister shall answer that question. If we're going to Thessaloniki via Rome, I'm so sorry! Slow down!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u165	So there is a specific e-mail, sent by Mr. Hallaris - the then President of HDIK - to the Minister who succeeded Mr. Loverdos and says that with the two invoices made in 2012, March, May and November, NOVARTIS in particular - and some other Greek companies - had a 30% increase of one of the companies "NOVARTIS" and 8% of the other company, in the way the invoice was made. Price increases. We have data that we are looking for - because at first we were trying to balance the country - and it is obvious that you had some veiled things, but we found them. And we found out what you were doing, and you did a few days before you left. So we see here on the basis of the evidence from the official information from the EEO that there is - from Mr Loverdos starting, and so have you - an increase in the prices of medicines in the period when the cuts were made. Because you made a horizontal bracelet, but you protected several companies. And during the cut-off period...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u166	How?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u167	With the price sheet. There is an example in May 2.018 and November 2.152. How is this disgraceful reduction possible? How does 2.018 and 2.012 and go to November 2.152 when the price proposed by the IF Committee is 872?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u168	This is for Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u169	Wait a minute, it's your turn. What did you do with LUCENTIS? What did you do with LUCENTIS, Mr. Georgiadis? You signed a ministerial decision a few days before you left, to which you added a paragraph. That's the little one. You've done something bigger that I'll say right after. You added a paragraph which says that when I have a preparation that changes its content, then there is a proportionate reduction or an increase in prices with some limits, if the content is reduced or increased. In this ministerial decision, therefore, you add a provision saying: 'for different strengths which have been authorised in full documentation and to obtain permission from the EEO and circulate in at least three countries of the European Union, the EEO may propose an exemption from the above references'. Then LUCENTIS changed its content. From 2.23 he went to 1,65 and based on the reduction - so you don't move the finger - the price had to go 509,07.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u170	Today why is it for sale?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u171	Why? I'll tell you why. Because now we've found it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u172	Mr. Georgiadis, please don't interrupt. Mr. Minister!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u173	That's why! Do you understand? You've hidden them! You've hidden them! Because instead of being invoiced...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u174	Minister, you've been over ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u175	Wait a minute! Wait a minute! Where we were owed, they took the ox!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u176	Wait a minute and we'll close. Wait a minute, we're closing! It's over and over!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u177	Where it had to be invoiced...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u178	You must answer...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u179	But it's a terrible thing to do. Wait a minute. Let me say this...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u180	Why are you protesting, Mr. Georgiadis? Sit down.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u181	It's serious...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u182	What's "serious"? Is that what we are going to solve today, Mr. Polakis' personal or personal disputes with Mr. Georgiadis?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u183	Is that personal?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u184	I'm sorry, Mr. President. A dozen and a half minutes Mr. Georgiadis spoke. Equivalently...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u185	Mr. Xydakis, read the Rules of Procedure and talk about it. The Minister and the Minister concerned are obliged to answer this question of the honourable Member. If you so far, with the exception of one or two points, understand the Minister's answer, come and say it. Please. Please. Minister, last warning. Answer, if you will, the specific issues raised in the timely question...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u186	You're not leaving me. That's what I'm doing...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u187	...or else I'll be in the unpleasant position to interrupt you, close the microphone. It's over and out. I'm saying it because you mentioned the perfection.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u188	That's what I'm doing, but you're not leaving me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u189	Where they owed us, they'll take the ox. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u190	Don't interrupt him, Mr. President. They must also answer the price list they did not make.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u191	LUCENTIS should therefore be invoiced on the basis of reduction rather than entered into the column of the three countries. Once he enters the column of three countries, in the next invoicing, the system automatically draws the three countries. It's more cowardly what you've done. You excluded from the first invoicing a new product with a different content that, instead of getting the low price, entered the way of pricing with the three countries, so automatically afterwards - because it is ten thousand codes, but we found it and there are others we have found - entered the other one and that is why it goes on. The most 'hot', however, you made in these two ministerial decisions you made, is that you abolished, Mr Georgiades, the second time, because you tell us about some things that we didn't manage in '15 - where the country was with the nipple in the neck - to do two invoices. You managed and made big pharmaceutical and multinational money back then. Do you know why you took it out and a few days before you left? For while in the January decision you signed there is the concept of a special wholesale price, in the June decision you signed a few days before you left there is no concept of a special wholesale price. What's that? That is the following, Mr Georgiadis, and this is where hundreds of millions of dollars were played, and that is why we have been chasing us so far. What's that? This is that for some expensive medicines, PBKs as we say, the high-cost medicines that a large part of them sells from hospitals, but also an important piece is sold to private pharmacies, in order to reduce the cost, from 2012 to 2013, were the meaning of the special wholesale price, i.e. you were deducting from the wholesale price that took the medicine, say a 1,000 euros, the 13% that was taken from the hospital. That's the hospital price. Therefore, a drug that made 1,000 euros, the hospital bought it 870 euros. The EUR 870 additional 2% that was the special wholesale price, in this particular example of EUR 884. So he said: For those drugs that are sold out at pharmacies, that is to say, they are paid by the EOPY or are also involved by the sick - they were usually not involved, they were very expensive - we should add EUR 30 for the pharmacist and for the VAT. Therefore, a medicine that had a wholesale price of EUR 1,000, a hospital price of EUR 870, a special wholesale price of EUR 884, at the pharmacies amounted to EUR 967. That's what EEAY pays. So, what do you guys do just before you leave? You are abolishing the concept of the special wholesale price and saying that for those medicines relating to large multinationals - I have the list here - the price will not be calculated at the pharmacy at the specific wholesale price, but at the wholesale price. We'll add 1,000 plus 30. Your counterpart, Mr Voridis, who changes it and says that the rate of profits of the pharmacist will not be 30 euros for medicines over 200 euros, but will be 5% for over 1,000 euros and goes to 1,110. You disguised the prices with her...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u192	How much did you reduce the cost?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u193	Mr. Georgiadis, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u194	I mean, since January 967, you've been doing this a few days before you go, who knows...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u195	The cost of how much did you reduce it?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u196	Don't fly.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u197	How much did you reduce the cost?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u198	Don't fly, you show what you're pulling now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u199	Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u200	To reduce spending, tell us.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u201	He's on his way to 1.110.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u202	Wait a minute. Minister, do you have much more to say?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u203	No, I don't have much. Two more words.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u204	Please, please, you'll be done now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u205	So on that basis, that thing was following us then. All-priced 3,030 euros, after what you did, went to 3,288 euros. That's what EPYY pays. You made an internal redistribution of the amount we gave for the medicine in favour of the large companies. That's what you did! Another price, EUR 2.229 at EUR 2,341. Another price, from EUR 1,597 to EUR 1.726. All of you legislated and did other things, which, unfortunately, I can't afford...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u206	Minister, please finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u207	Your basic crime, however, both you and Loverd and Voridis and Salma and all those that preceded the Ministry of Development, was this: you never negotiated. You had the responsibility of the insurance funds in your hands, which was the monopsy. That's what he was buying. From the volume of the pharmaceutical market, the fund was buying. In Germany, a medicine that enters 100 euros, the insurance fund pays 20 or 30 euros with an agreement.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u208	Minister, finish it up. Please. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u209	It's very important what I'm saying. This is where we paid 100 euros or 80 euros, and 20 euros the sick person. You never did that. This was a betrayal attitude to our society, since the price it took in Greece was for fifty other countries...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u210	Okay. This is what we are ending, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u211	...you have not dared, because you are a professional civil staff, to negotiate a single discount on the prices of medicines sold on the Greek market. Now, to understand our difference, I will tell you that the hepatitis treatment we paid for over your days of EUR 35,000 and EUR 40,000, now we pay it the maximum EUR 10,000 and it can go to all of the 5,000 euros. You know that? That's our big difference.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u212	We didn't take her.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u213	Good. All right, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u214	For we, Mr Georgiadis, do not owe anyone. There's no one in our hand.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u215	Mr President, I want to table something in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u216	Mr. Georgiades, sit down. It's not over yet.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u217	I'm not done.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u218	But you must finish now, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u219	There's no one in our hand. I think you got the answers you were getting on with the medical expenses, because there are other microwaves...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u220	How much did you reduce her?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u221	...which again led to a redistribution, such as, for example, the 20% rate to come out of the generic price or the per strength, which in this way you did premium specific companies that only had that content, and before that was not there. That's the stuff you did! Do not be proud of the cut in expenditure, which in previous years your political bodies have plunged to God and you have undertaken to manage how to share the pie with your political friends.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u222	Minister, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u223	There's a lot going on both the Internet and the right and the left. And you know, as long as anyone's looking, he finds. Why, now that we have balanced the system both in the EEA and in the hospitals, now we have all the power to look for all these things, which we did not have the luxury of looking for in 2015 or 2016. So sleep restless at night.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u224	Good, Minister. Okay. Finish here. This is the end of Mr. Polakis' placement.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u225	Mr President, I just want to submit a document.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u226	All right, put it in the Minutes. Mr. Georgiadis wants to submit a document. Put it in the Minutes. I'm not giving you the floor. You're not entitled to tritology, Mr. Georgiadis, how do we do it?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u227	And you should know what Mr. Paulakis didn't find for two years, I found it in two days.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u228	We're continuing with the number...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u229	Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u230	Please! Please! [[Noise in the Chamber]] We continue with the fourth question under number 458/7-2-2017, the second question of the Member of the Greek Communist Party, Mr Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Ministers for Health and Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on works contracts in hospitals and the circumvention of the right to maternity. The Deputy Minister for Health, Mr Paul Paulakis, will answer. Here you go, Mr. Synchronous. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Please be very quiet. You're very welcome. Mr. Xydakis, where are you? Please. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u231	Are you commenting on me, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u232	Will you be quiet? I gave the floor to a colleague to develop his question. Be quiet, both of you. Sit down! Please. Please. What kind of behavior is that? [[Noise in the Chamber]] Minister, please respect the Member who has a question at the moment. I've already announced it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u233	Mr. Georgiade, please calm down! Here you go, Mr. Synergy, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u234	Mr President, we have to comment...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u235	Wait a minute, Mr. Synergy. I'll keep your time. Please! Calm down! Mr. Georgiades, please don't challenge the Minister, because he's answering and continuing the fight. Respect colleagues! Come on, Mr. Synatiakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u236	Thank you, Mr President. Unfortunately, we are obliged to comment on this disgusting, unacceptable and disgusting phenomenon that we lived in this Chamber just now, where two persons participated, not as a result of a personal confrontation but as a result of a conscious and continuing choice of SYRIZA and the New Democracy to turn this space into a 'parliamentary show'. There was no parliamentary control here, it was a 'parliamentary show'. And it is done on a repeated basis. Do you know when? When measures are taken, when they consider that the people are the 'hard' of the case and that they have to take this terrible confrontation between the two parties. Watch out, though, there's a riddle in here. After three - four postponements to the debate on our questions - at least my own and Mr Giokas, which we are discussing at the moment - the Minister appeared. And we said, "Well after three - four postponements, did he show up? Why?’ Oper and done. Because it was the "television show" with Mr. Georgiadis. Mr President, if you would like to introduce a 'parliamentary show' day between Mr Polakis and Mr Georgiadis and anyone else who wants to be rid of any party, then we too should be able to present our views and the questions put to us by the people themselves. There are other procedures, but there are no two speed MPs here. I now come to the essence of the question. Minister, the question concerns former contractors of cleaning and feeding at the University Hospital of Heraklion and other hospitals in the country, who have signed project contracts since last summer ending at the end of 2017 and are now treated as contractors with fixed-term and insurance contracts in the IKA. These conventions not only give a solution but turn workers into contractors of themselves, losing employment rights, benefits, gifts, motherhood, into a sector where the vast majority are women. And don't move your hand.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u237	Easy now, Manolis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u238	Go on, Mr. Synhonaki.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u239	Watch out. The representative of the JRC is neither Georgiadis nor New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u240	Come on, take it easy now, Manolis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u241	Not'slowly'. You will respect when the Member speaks and asks you the question, because we know each other.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u242	Because we know each other.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u243	I'm on it. These workers left the "Skylla" of the contractor's arbitrariness and fell into the "Grybden" of the works contracts, without labour rights and expiry date. The side effects, of course, were not too late for them to come. PAGNE's administration refused to satisfy a baby's demand for cleanliness for six-month maternity leave and two other women in feeding with threatened pregnancy. The excuse was that they are not provided for in the contract, even though they are paying contributions to the IKA, while the private sector is still entitled to a maternity leave, the licence allowance, the tenth and the fourth wages, until of course it is time to cut them down. But in any case they're still recognized. Finally, neither the rights of the public nor those of the private sector are entitled. And what's the result? The government to perpetuate this exploitation and abuse of rights, even without a contractor or - better - with the worker himself as a contractor. In a question from the association to the administration, 'What about these workers?' the answer is "to perform their duties in accordance with the signed contract", that is to deal with the terrible dilemma: either they will give birth to their child or they will lose their job. Apart from the racing, working hostage and exploitation of these women, however, they are also threatened with dismissal, because the contracts ending at the end of 2017. So the main problem remains. After two years of hard work in the hospital, these people will be on the road and while you know that these services are necessary, they are required to operate the hospital on a permanent basis. So, you confirm, over and above all, that these conventions that you have widely advertised will apply by the government, as decent working conditions - that is what you said, and that you would put an end to contractors and employers' arbitrary - not only did they not solve the acute work problems that existed with contractors, but you have created more. So, once again, the workers experience this medieval hostage and exploitation regime. So we ask you, Minister, what measures will the government take as a Minister, the Ministry of Health as a whole, given that contracts end at the end of 2017, so that workers remain at work, that they can ensure the right to permanent, stable work, with full working, wage and insurance rights, and for those of course, but also for all workers in the health and welfare sector, and that therefore we also have the right to six-month maternity leave with remuneration, full-time rights, allowances and gifts for those who work with individual works contracts? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u244	The Deputy Minister for Health, Mr. Paul Paulakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u245	Thank you, Mr President. I won't say much, Mr. Syncis. I think you're up-to-date.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u246	You've been talking to Mr. Georgiades before!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u247	Leave the review now. Say the same thing about the fight, and so on.Huh? It's getting a little boring. We are not the same and don't equate to us, I say it precisely because we know each other. We're not the same and don't equate us, because it's at least insulting. You know very well that the first attempt we made was to convert into project contracts and to recruit directly the people who were working in these contract workshops, in an effort to prevent any of the people from losing their job. It is also a given fact that all these people took up to twice as much money as they did before, even by counting on the gifts they were supposed to be in their works contracts. This regulation fell into the Council of State. The problem he had, because it was just work contracts, was related to maternity and maternity leave, which were not actually foreseen there. After that regulation fell into the Council of State, we did not go back. We have relegated ourselves in a certain way. We proceeded with the signing of contracts of employment, where they have all the wages and all the working rights of other workers. This thing we did and we continue to have a terrible war on many sides, because money is a lot. We gave this possibility, it was simply not completed everywhere in all the hospitals that we prevented before making project contracts or in the healthcare regions, which were about twenty-five in Greece, until the first regulation in the Council of State was "done". We have given a mandate and have provided for it by law for these project contracts to be transformed into employment contracts covering this issue. There is a large 'wind' of appeals to some forty hospitals - where the competitions are currently under way - by the contractors basically, who see that they lose a very large share of the 'pitty'. What we are going to do, in an effort to premium those who work in the contracting workshops today and some who have been working for many years, is to change with some amendment tabled in the Mental Health Act and to place greater emphasis on those who have such experience, because working contracts can apply not only for those who have been working but also for other unemployed people who are interested. The whole question of working rights is solved and has the possibility of signing contracts for up to eighteen or twenty-four months. Our political choice, obviously, is that we do not want this world to get rid of it afterward. We are giving a solution, with a specific horizon at the moment, which is clearly dignified in relation to the middle ages in which they were working. It's not a middle-aged thing they're experiencing. Talk to cleaners who are now working with these works contracts or even with the work contracts in various hospitals and you will see that their pay is extremely good than those they were before, as in general all the behavior they have from the care office and not the contractor who took them for the hospital, paid for the hospital and put them in and cleaned up some other homes or houses or hotels that might have been under the responsibility of cleaning.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u248	Mr. Synhronakis, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u249	Minister, you said that you were oriented by a ministerial amendment, if I understand well, legislative regulation, I do not know what it is called, to conclude individual contracts of conditional employment.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u250	It's done this. It has been legislated, Mr Synonymakis. You haven't noticed. She's been legislated.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u251	No, I'm talking about the proposed arrangement you will bring to the mental health bill, where you incorporate not only those who are already working, but other cases of unemployed. I've got it right here, there she is.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u252	Mr. Symphony, you don't understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u253	I understand, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u254	Excuse me, may I interrupt, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u255	If Mr. Synthrakis allows.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u256	The rules on contracts of employment have been legislated since November, after the first regulation in the Council of State for works contracts has fallen. Since then, contracts of employment have been in force.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u257	And they do for how long?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u258	From twelve to twenty-four months is the possibility for hospitals to sign. What it created in hospitals a reaction is why it seems that by the mode of moleculation people who worked many years on contractors or at least a few years might be found out. Maybe.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u259	No, it can't.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u260	We will improve the molecule regulation, in consultation with ASP, etc. There are reasons for public health for that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u261	Okay, I get it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u262	Because a cleaning lady in a hospital, because she cleans and surgery and units, has to have an experience more. It's not like cleaning stairs in a simple building.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u263	These individual contracts will therefore have a duration of up to twenty-four months. Is that right?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u264	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u265	In the view of the Communist Party of Greece, these are contracts which have an end date, whereas, on the contrary, precisely because of the lack of staff and increased needs, it is reasonable to turn them into contracts of at least indefinite duration, which we propose. But you don't.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u266	We have a Memorandum.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u267	Also, what will work contracts be done? You have explained, in a way, how it is done in hospitals that you have not put in fixed-term contracts and you say that it will also apply to hospitals that apply to works contracts. We ask these because there are serious questions with the workers who are already working. To ensure a job, even temporary, what do you tell them? You tell them to bear the suffering of the criteria, the terms and the conditions, even those who work for two years over and you should have settled them in the way we tell you, because it is necessary, with contracts of indefinite duration. The proposed regulation also provides for that. In other words, if all other adult members of the family are unemployed, the candidate's net taxable income does not exceed EUR 4.512 and his family income is EUR 9,475, etc. So, what are you telling them? You tell them that the current workers and the unemployed will be engaged in a competition between themselves in order to be the most impoverished, until the next round of recycled unemployment, effectively setting up an anthropophagia scene - for anthropophagia is - workers and the unemployed, turning the unemployed against the workers. Because that's what's going on. And I ask you: by what collective labour agreement? You don't answer us. Because if you say what people were getting on project contracts, you have to tell us what they will get now. With what collective labour contract will it be? We, for example, propose that it should be based on sectoral conventions, which provide both service recognition and three years of unhealthyness. In fact, we are proposing - and we will present it in the Minutes - that workers in feedingstuffs be on the basis of their own foodstuffs. I will even present the decision of the OPCW that is valid until the end of 2017. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Emmanuel Syntrakis, presents for the minutes the abovementioned decision, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice.]] So will you implement the sectoral contract? You need to answer what they'll get. After you have so much sensitivity about what they took on work contracts, you have to answer us and what these workers will get from here and beyond. I would say too much - but now we do not have time - for how many organic positions are provided for in PANGNE's feedingstuffs. It was a hundred and four. A few years ago they came to work eighty workers. Fifteen employees have now become thirty-seven with the new contracts to build a thousand two hundred portions of food a day, without an afternoon and, of course, without proper equipment. Not to tell you, of course, about the cleaners - they are 80 acres there - which are also undergoing surgery, and they take on intensive action. They work eight hours while the contract is for an hour and they are paid for six hours. And with various pretexts they take them off. They don't get paid on the basis of twenty or twenty-five hours a month. So for all this, shouldn't you answer us? So, the proposed arrangements, the employment contract, do these issues solve? So you're going to give them the presents? Are you going to give them the benefits? Would you give them maternity? Are you going to give them the pregnancy permit? Will you give them the 13th and the 14th wages, as the IKA provides in any case? Will you give them all this? For us, in order to make this clear as a JRC, there must be no redundancy of a worker. Those who work must convert them into indefinite time and hire as many as the needs of the hospitals. And, of course, ensure stable and permanent work for all, with full insurance rights.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u268	Mr. Synatiakis, let's finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u269	That is all, Mr President. And from that point on, I think that everyone will draw their conclusions to the policy pursued by the government today. Let the government look at the situation in the workplace and look at the employment ministers' decision on 3 March, which provides for work Dahow from now on. And that's what the government agreed to and agreed to. And he is now preparing the fourth Memorandum with tough anti-grassroots measures. That's why you're fighting with each other, so you've been fighting before, to disorientate the world.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u270	Good, Mr. Covenant. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u271	I have not much to say, Mr President. The show of Maximism can cover us ideologically, but I think you have not forgotten that we are in a committee framework and that we are in a memorandum ending in 2018. When the people decide to take the people's power and establish socialism, we will have the industrial relations you describe in the way you describe them. I'll give two answers. Wages are as if they were civil servants. That is, from where they took between EUR 300 and 500 at best, they start from EUR 750 to EUR 780 with legal increments for both the service and the health care that is required, etc. Like the other civil servants don't get fourteen wages, so they get 12 wages. I think it is an extremely big step forward in relation to the status of the working galley that they experienced. The administrations of hospitals where they have done work contracts must convert them into work contracts which resolve all the issues relating to the licensing section. And I think that's gonna happen. We'll just face a second round. And I would very much like to see the attitude you are going to take at that time - beyond the general position that everyone who serves, etc. must be permanentized. - if we have a second attempt to cancel and fall and the second regulation by the Council of State. There was a cigarette that was only in cleanliness at 150 million euros. It's a lot of money to let them pass like this and not to be claimed by the contractors who have so far been partying. And, of course, I can tell you that where it has been implemented there seems to be a 20% reduction in total costs for the hospital and 30% for the time being, because in the first year they also buy some basic equipment, while the workers are paid in the way we have said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u272	Thank you. We continue with the fifth under the number 413/30-1-2017 topical question of the second question of the MP Arta of the New Democracy Mr. Georgios Stylios to the Minister of Health, regarding the non-payment of cleanliness staff of the General Hospital of Artas. Mr Stylus has the floor for his prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u273	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, I am returning to my previous question, the protocol number 1121/11-11-2016, regarding the non-payment of cleanliness staff at the General Hospital of Arta, which has not yet been answered. As you know, the General Hospital of Artas has concluded thirty-seven individual rental contracts for the cleaning of its premises. Cleaning staff shall work without delay from mid-August. No pay-off has been made until now. I say this again: no payment of their regular earnings has been made so far! The workers are unable to be informed even when they will receive their jobs. Moreover, it is unknown whether employers' contributions to their insurance fund are paid. Therefore, cleaning staff may also be uninsured. It is the duty of the government and the administration to resolve all the issues immediately. These are low-paid workers whose economic strengths, both of themselves and of their families, have long been exhausted. On the basis of the above, Mr Minister: When will the workers' enslavements be paid? Have employers’ contributions been paid to IKA - ETAM, and now EKA? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u274	Thank you, Mr. Style. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u275	Mr. Style, you know her answer, we've talked about her before you filed the question. I understand the need to present the question. You know this has finally been solved. People were absolutely right, we're not talking about it. Article 25 to Law 4456 published on 1 March 2017 in the Official Journal of the Government, in an amendment that has passed, can be considered legitimate, to be the warrants. Let me just say a word here: the commissioner of the Arta Region did not, in fact, approve the first payment warrant for these people, so he did not approve the next warrants. And he also made a big, multipurpose exhibition, wasted time, trouble and food to justify the fact that these people shouldn't have been paid. Also, he did this, sent it to the Court of Auditors. There have been four postponements to the Court of Auditors, which could have responded earlier and resolved this issue, and that is why we have proceeded with this amendment, which resolves the issue and will enable people, as they deserve, to be paid and paid for, and all remuneration, in all the insurance funds and everywhere.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u276	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty-seven students and students and two educational attendants from the 1st General High School of Naoussa. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Stylis has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u277	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, it is good that there has been a legislative initiative. But I have to point out the following: and today, now that we are talking, the workers have not been informed and they do not know when they will be paid. This is the first and very important one. Secondly, my question, the simple question, was tabled in November. The timely question was tabled on 10 January, it was registered from the Minutes of Parliament on 30 January, and since then every week we have had a debate on this matter until the amendment to this House has been tabled to resolve this matter. Because we may have political differences, we may have other perceptions, but under no circumstances can this be done at the expense of workers - and even low-wage workers. So I want you, Minister, to explain to me what is going on with their insurance contributions, because we have new insurance...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u278	It's gonna be normal.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u279	You should say it so that the workers know it too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u280	Minister, you'll tell your dentist. Please continue, Mr. Style.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u281	I want you to clarify this to us, ask the Health Region and your administration and your Ministry to make a statement when and to inform the workers concerned when they will be paid. I would also like to take this question - I have tabled another question - to tell you that the General Hospital of Artas - you know it very well, you have come, I was there, and I was present with you - serves not only Arta, the Prefecture of Arta, but it serves the Preveza, Amphilosia, Lefkada, the Trikala mountains and all the wider area because of the point and the fact that this is a very good hospital. However, in the notices that have been made, you have not arranged for this hospital to be served with appropriate medical staff and qualified nurses. I'm also telling you about the CPVO that's down. Five million have been spent to make the CPVO and it's down. In the health centers of the county you download the doctors and go to hospital in the Emergency Department and this creates a great problem, especially in mountain and remote villages, when a large part of Arta Prefecture is mountainous. Thank you very much, Minister. You should know that in everything that has to do with the fair and the interests of Arta and Epirus you will always find me against you to fight against them and claim them and win them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u282	Thank you, Mr. Style. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u283	Okay, I don't have much to say. Periodic statements by IKA are submitted every month for these workers and there is no question of not communicating their insurance contributions. From there on, I think the Artas Hospital has been strengthened by medical staff from the notices I have asked the assistants too. I do not think it takes so much, because I think they are more than thirty of the organic positions. Some other specialties are needed and there will be care for this. Its financing has also been strengthened. We also solved the issue, which had not been solved for many years, of the submissions to the EEAS and received a lot of money from the hospital and the EEAS this year. Because he didn't testify for a few years, and before we took over. This issue has been resolved. It has also been done this year by the new administration in cooperation with the EEA administration. And we really want you to center us to fix what we can. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u284	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We continue with the seventh under the number 408/30-1-2017 topical question by Attica MEP of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Giokas to the Minister of Health, on the serious problems of families and workers in special education services.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u285	Mr President, because these are two questions on the same subject, can we discuss them together?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u286	If there is consultation and agreement, Mrs Megalo-Economics and Mr Giokas will be led by Mr Giokas in the order of entry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u287	If Mr. Giokas has the same information as me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u288	Not to say twice the same.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u289	The Minister is submitting a request to you because the questions are relevant. The process, Mrs Mega-Economist and Mr Giokas, if we agree to discuss it uniformly, is as follows: Mr Giokas will be in his protagonist. You, Mrs. Big Economics, will have the time of protology immediately after Mr. Gioka. It's gonna be like the show. Then the Minister will have his prototype and he will answer both on the basis of the questions and the evidence you have submitted. Then the seconds will follow. Do you agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u290	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u291	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u292	Therefore, it will be discussed together with Mr Gioka's timely question and the eighth question under number 313/5-1-2017, a topical question for the second parliamentary group, Mr Theodoras Megalo-Economist, concerning the risk of children and adolescents staying without treatment. Mr. Gioka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u293	Mr President, on some sensible points we have no problem agreeing. We do not agree with the procedures that have been followed before, for which there are other parliamentary procedures for doing so. Minister, despite the fact that this question has been tabled more than two months and has been postponed more than five times - not on our own responsibility, with the responsibility of the Ministry - we think that it has not lost its topicality at all, because the problems of families and workers in special education remain, uncertainty remains, insecurity is growing. And that, regardless of the outcome of the negotiation of the Government and the EEAS with the private centres for the conclusion of a contract. I imagine you will tell us in your answer what is going on with this. The special treatment has evolved into a daily rocket for thousands of families who have this need, from the search for a public hospital that will make the opinion after eight and ten months at best until the expectation of the EEA to be paid for the amounts they have already paid, and in many cases not all of the amount is paid because it is not justified on the basis of the therapeutic actions. On this occasion, I would like to say that it is a question of what is going to happen with these families who have paid up a number of sums in the private centres and are due to them for six, seven or more months. And I say it because you say you care about this world, about these families. We say that your declarations - and I do not mean personally - are hypocritical on the basis of your policy. What, though, will happen with these payments even waiting for families in the previous months to continue the treatments that have been interrupted in the meantime? In our view, the policy that the government has adopted and followed does not give any real solution, because it does not address the cause of the problems. On the one hand, it continues to leave specific treatment in the hands of entrepreneurship, the market, without at all, Mr President, a state structure or a service, not even for the poorest families. There is nothing in this area of special treatment in terms of a state structure or a service, while on the other hand it aims to further cut State spending on special education, that is to say, what the previous governments have done, which you continue to pursue and follow. Thus, even if a contract is signed, there will continue to be families who put their hand in the pocket, because there will be treatment operations that are not covered, and for cases where no final contract is signed, families will be forced to pay in full, or to change a therapist, which the President and the Minister are well aware of. Consequently, the order which the Government claims to want to place in the field of special treatment is a pretext to continue cutting State expenditure in this area from EUR 150 million to EUR 60 million and, of course, the cost will be passed on to families, workers working in these centres, to some small professionals who exist in this area and already in December, with the new regime adopted by the Government, there are such phenomena. We ask the government - and here differs, Minister, our side of the question from similar questions that other parties may have asked - what measures will the government take to ensure that the state is given special responsibility, by means of modern means, with special treatment methods and services free of charge for those who need them? What measures will you take to develop modern public structures, state special treatment services with staff and equipment in order to meet all needs? Of course, until we have done what we claim, that parents should not be forced to pay, that wage cuts and redundancies should be stopped, that self-employed health workers should be compensated in time with decent amounts, without rebate and clawback, which have already been implemented with a specific objective: that they should actually reduce spending and transfer it to the backs of the people's families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u294	Thank you, Mr. Gioka. Ms. Big Economics has the reason to first.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u295	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you know that from 5 January I tabled the timely question that had been postponed six to seven times, I do not remember exactly. With the article 34 of Law 4447/2016 that you brought on 23-12-2016 of the holidays, I think we closed on 22 December, you brought it after - the landscape for the treatments of children and adolescents, which are part of the special treatment, has completely changed. To date the parents received the money that the centers were paying off from EEAY, even with a delay. Now you have put the centres directly with the EEA, without the parents interceive anymore. In particular, EOPY will conclude contracts with private enterprises, but the Associations of Logopaedics, Logotherapists, the Association of Greek Workers and others refuse to sign the contracts provided to them by EOPY, since at the beginning of January you have constantly taught extensions for this scheme, which also applies to the private companies until now, have provided children with treatments and have no intention of joining the EOPY, so you have kept them both businesses and parents in the dark. I ask you, Minister. Most of the companies that have so far provided reasoning, treatment, etc. have refused to sign in white with the EEA. What will happen now that you have given an extension by the end of March and that extension ends? Are the children in need of treatment staying without treatment? The second question I have to submit is: In any case, under the new regime, what amount will the EEAY make available on an annual basis for the specific treatments of children of special treatment and how many monthly sessions per treatment category will the EEAY justify for each child? Will the number of meetings covered be reduced as far as possible? Because you know that others need only one treatment, if they have a small problem, but if they have brain paralysis, they need four and five treatments. So how many are you gonna set to be the ones that will be covered if the Centres of course sign? I don't think they're gonna sign up for why you don't give them any clues about how much they'll pay and whether they're paid with clawback. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u296	Thank you, Mrs. Big Housekeeper. Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u297	Ladies and gentlemen, I have answered the very same question from two Members, Mr Nikolaopoulos and Mrs Papakostas on 10 February and there is nothing different.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u298	We didn't ask the same thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u299	I submitted it on January 5th.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u300	All right, all right. I replied February 10th. We're not sitting! I'll say two, three things soon, because I think I've answered very thoroughly. I'm just going to say what's the most up-to-date. EEAY for the first year of last year, after the negotiation, increased the cost limit to private health providers since 1,402 previously agreed to 1,525. In there we make a redistribution to the different categories of providers. There were some categories of providers who did not have a contract with the Agency. That will no longer exist and will not be there for two reasons. One and the most important is that we want to decommission the patient's financial relationship with the provider. The provider shall be compatible with the EEAS, provide services to the insured person for any problem he has from hospital, laboratory or special treatment and shall be paid by the Agency. This thing to some people creates reflexes. We know very well what was happening and they are very innocent of what you said about one treatment. We know very well how many treatments were written for various categories, which did not have such an indication. It was also one way other therapists could be paid, who are the irrational ones that is happening and which by regulation in the mental health bill is solved. That is to say, it is not possible for the therapist to be rewarded with 15 euros, the therapist with 1.23 and the psychotherapist with 2.26, for which no one has ever raised a question in the past years from all of them, but from you, who are now calling out that we are destroying the special treatment. Why was there a special treatment with 1.23 treatments? Has anyone raised the matter? It had been arranged in a way that we are changing and changing today. In other words, they will sign contracts, the fees of the various scientists will be assimilated. Our job is to speed up the work, to increase the centres which give the opinions, and to make the last doubt from some, we have set up a committee which ends its work in very few days - if you have not already finished it - and which, with representatives of all the scientific associations involved in special education, will tell us that this category of patient needs so many treatments for so long. That's gonna make an account. There is no way - because this is coming out now - children, who are in real need, heavy autism, brain paralysis and many other conditions, not to be covered. They will simply be covered in the way of the direct contract of providers with the EEAS, which will enter rules, of course, be careful! - only that way can there be a check. An insured person who goes and is hospitalized at a clinic doesn't come to present us with papers, to quote us in order to pay him what he paid for at the clinic. He pays the clinic his participation, if there's as much as there is - that usually exists - and the rest of the EOPY pays it at the clinic. This will also be done in special education and without participation, of course, because it is the special category. We know very well - I've said it, don't say it again - what's going on there. Other rules enter into the whole of the EEAS providers. Bad for many years this treatment charge has been like this. Because you can't control that. When you get the parent with the prints, what can you tell him? How did you do it? Where did you do it? Why did you do it? Apparently, you're indebted to him. It wasn't 150 million, Mr. Comrade. It was 105 million.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u301	I said 105 million. I'm sorry, keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u302	I say that because you said 150 million. We also know what happens in various regions in recent years, how things are prescribed above, etc. The challenging demand will be stopped. The only way to stop is by conventions and the possibility of monitoring the contracts, because without them there can be no one. In the meantime, expenditure limit is available for all EEA providers. So he's gonna get in there, too, but we're gonna look to cover the real need. I said that if it were necessary in this, which we said, there would be an increase - and a serious increase - that would be done. This work is being done by the committee now, so that we can have such an agreement on what level we are meeting our real needs as a country.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u303	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Gioka, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u304	First of all, Mr President, I would like to make this clear: Mr Paulakis said that he has answered this question several times. We don't ask the same thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u305	Twice.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u306	Twice. We are not asking the same thing about the other parties' questions with the Members of the other parties. We may all start from an existing fact, however, we ask something more. We ask this: In this area, special treatment, which does not exist, but no state...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u307	"Nobody" don't say it. It's not like that. There's very little...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u308	There's some neutrons that don't actually cover anything. Is there any intention of the government to create public services, structures that meet the needs of this world, or will everything be left to the market, to entrepreneurship with what this entails? That's what the JRC asks as a matter of urgency. I think that the answer given by the Minister confirms that at least two fundamentally different concepts exist between us. You in special education, in health, in welfare and in total, if you want, see costs that need to be reduced, because that is what your commitments say, what the memorandum says, that is what the need for the surpluses you have signed, for the debts that have to be paid and gone by saying. We in special treatment see a need for early diagnosis, for treatment. Today there are diagnostic tools more than in the past and, if you want, knowledge, parental information, so that this need is met in modern terms and not in terms of previous decades. The Minister referred to overregistration, overdiagnosis, etc. In fact, in a previous reply, he said something that might sound reasonable: "How can there be 105 million euros for special education and 110 for other EOPY providers?"
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u309	For doctors covering the whole country.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u310	For doctors all over the country. First of all, we must make this clear, which is well known for those who have had the misfortune to get involved with all this mechanism. The opinion is made by the public hospital after eight, ten months if you're lucky. It is done, in other words, by doctors responsible for what treatment the child needs - what kind of treatment, for how long. So it's done by public hospitals, whose responsibility the Ministry has. Secondly, special treatment - because a portion of the world may have it and a little distorted in its mind - is not about a small special category of children. The special treatment may be for any child who has a problem with a small or larger problem in communication, attention, speech. Today, I say again, thankfully, there are both diagnostic tools and science progress and parental information, in relation to previous decades, which, if you like, justifies this increase in expenditure even more. So let us not make connections of this kind, much more, I say again, when we talk about an area that does not exist almost - to do the pleasure of the Minister - no public structure, such as the structures that exist in the rest of health and welfare. Some phenomena were the result of a policy that had been allocated and continued to delegate this part to entrepreneurship, the private market and went on to say, even in the way the compensation was granted to date. So there should be no such pretext. These are pretexts, in our view - and it will prove to be - to transfer the costs - whether signed or not a contract is signed - on the backs of the workers' families, etc. Why, if you'll excuse me, where contracts have been signed in the rest of the health sector, are there not such phenomena or the cost has not been passed on to the patient's backs? Are we serious? And after all, if you really wanted to put an order honestly, you should follow a completely different policy of creating public structures, where diagnosis, opinion, treatment to be the sole responsibility of the state and have been personnel. The therapists, the therapists, the psychologists, the professionals, who are currently self-employed and cannot handle them, should be included in this public health system. That is what we claim. That's why we ask the question. That is what we are asking you to answer, but you do not have such an intention and such a policy of creating such structures. All in entrepreneurship and everyone, each family in its own gulgotha, individual responsibility, and everyone in his wallet, to make it through.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u311	Mrs. Big Economics, you have the floor for your dentistry too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u312	Thank you. Mr Colleague, I agree with what you say. There are no public structures. As you know, private hospitals and clinics exist, but they've signed contracts and know how much they'll be paid. You ask for a white check on the centers to sign. Let structures be made and all scientists be absorbed there. But they won't, because the public system is falling all the time. So you're asking for fleas in the straw. Well, let's just...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u313	Mrs. Big Economics, do not address your questioning colleague. You are also addressing the Bureau via the Bureau your questions to the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u314	Regarding treatment centers, the clubs have been indignant because you ask the special centers to sign contracts without having solved the problems with the EEAS, i.e. they do not know which pricelist they will pay for any treatment. Have you told them, for example, EUR 1, EUR 3?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u315	I answered before. I said 15, 15, 15, 15, the basic treatments.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u316	Why don't they sign if you've told them a price?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u317	Minister, there is no dialogue. Let Mrs. Big Housekeeper finish, and you'll answer the end. Carry on, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u318	Didn't you know the prices of the payment per category? You're telling me you've answered. You've only spoken to them. You have not given them any written guarantee. You first have them sign orally. But when they sign it, it'll be too late. Why do you treat such a serious problem with such sloppyness and constantly give extensions? You're asking to sign the centers, good faith, get paid after three months and watch. So how will they pay their staff and their expenses? Do you also consider it reasonable that in the funds for special education you have cut about 40%? It was 105 million and you've reached it around 65 million euros a year. Will the needs of the children be met? Last year was 105 million. Last year was 80 million. Now, you did it at 65 million. As you know, parents' associations have expressed too much concern about this. In fact, I'll testify for the record all the files. They are from eight hundred fifty parents who have signed up to mention what the problem is. It's not an agency. It's not some NGO. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Theodora Megalonikou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In fact, the National Committee on Human Rights issued a communication on this subject that no child should stay without treatment, especially those in the middle of the healing period. I also put the relevant document on human rights by the ECHR. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Theodora Megalonikou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] As you know, I haven't taken these out of my mind because I'm not a doctor. I've talked to reason therapy centers. I know that many parents have withdrawn their children from treatments, because they do not know whether they will be paid and how it will be done. Finally, they do not have the power to pay out of their pockets when they are asked by the centers. Also, many reasoning centres, treatment centres, are geared to dismissing workers, because they cannot respond to costs, because they do not know how much they will be paid. They'll either shut down the centers, or they'll fire workers. So we'll be depriving ourselves of jobs after they're fired. There'll be more business closures if that's your purpose. Finally, I would like to highlight an important point that arises. Every child, Minister - as a doctor you know - has special needs. It would be disastrous to set a final ceiling. For example, for a child who is autistic. Every child has a different way and needs something else. There are children who have sufficient reason to do so once a week. Children who have autism may need, unfortunately, only day after day to do treatments. I have the evidence from the parents. Autistic children need treatment day after day, because they don't get a cure. No matter how much you tell me that 85% disability or autism can be made 65%, it can't be corrected. Just a small, minimal improvement can be made. The same treatment of unparalleled things cannot stand. It is prohibited and cannot function in practice. I ask you for every child to be given a special opinion and a separate treatment. Finally, the big question is: For reasoning, treatment centres, which do not sign contracts, will these children stay without treatment? As far as I know there are no corresponding public structures - which is why I was in agreement with my colleague, because I have looked for it very much - which may make these treatments. Also, many parents, in the midst of this huge economic crisis, cannot pay alone or have the money and the opportunity to pay. Are we going to leave these children in their destiny as second-class children of a lower god? That was the social state and the person you were saying as SYRIZA? I'm asking you. I want those answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u319	Thank you, Mrs. Big Housekeeper. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u320	Listen, Mrs Megalo-Economics, first of all lessons of social sensitivity to the government, which gave free medical access to two million uninsured people, we do not accept. Secondly, the government, which three years ago was running by cancer patients in social pharmacies to obtain chemo therapy, while today there is no such example, is still not accepted. So don't show now for the reasons of hearing that we're throwing them into Kaidas. Eminence and humility. First of all, that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u321	He has eight hundred parental signatures.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u322	Secondly, none of you remembered, and I come to the JRC's colleague in previous years only now that the problem of the public structure for disability support centres has arisen. Well, NYPD made twenty-six predecessors all over Greece. They chewed up the NSRF and left the buildings with excellent equipment really means and with a huge subscribing. They are twenty-six across Greece and some of them are desert buildings, which could cover a large part of these needs. And now you're asking me for the period of badness and poorness to hire the world needed to work on this. That's a good one, too, but it's a little modest now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u323	Blonde promised Rethymnon.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u324	Manolis, we're in agreement. A number of the positions we have announced have been put forward in order to put some of them before me, or to strengthen some who work and meet some of the needs. And coming out of the comitology and the memoranda, yes, our political choice is to base this story. Now the whole thing has been created, why don't you do the same thing with the providers they get? There's no need there? This logic "We only see needs, we don't see money", I've done it in the past few years. In 2009, when the public pharmaceutical cost of EUR 9 billion was reached, you said: "He gave the above". But it's not like that, you guys. It's not like that. And we know that everywhere...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u325	Does it cover today?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u326	What does not exist in your analysis and takes you away from this specific reality is that in this fairy tale there is everywhere a large percentage of the non-economy. At the moment, we didn't say that we would check this out to throw it out of the system. We're throwing it back in and everything we've done to tell you anyway, the budget from which we're earning 20,000,000 euros a year from blood serological control, it didn't leave the health system, it fell in it too, or the artificial kidney filters that were reduced to 5,000,000 euros, and that in it fell. Here for the real needs, there is scientific data. That is why we have put in a committee made up of scientists, made up of representatives of all of them, to come together. And be sure, Mrs. Big Economics, everyone will sign the contracts. As there is no clinic in the country that does not have a contract with the EEAS, so there will be no such centre that does not sign final contracts.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u327	Okay, blackmailing in some areas? We'll see about that. Calm down.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u328	I'll call them and bring them to the Ministry...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u329	We've seen them, Mrs. Big Housekeeper. Don't get tired. We've seen them. From there on, this committee very soon ends its work in order to have a common conclusion as far as possible to which children, with what diseases today...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u330	Ms. Big Economics, you don't sound and you don't record any of what you're saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u331	This will be translated into a cost and we will actually meet the maximum needs that we can achieve. But from there on, contracts and control will be in place. This category cannot be an exception. And, of course, look at it now, because you don't say it: POSGAMA, the Pan-Hellenic Federation of Parents, agrees with this process. It agrees with the procedure and the contracts and control, etc. It also agrees with the pay equation. As far as the level of expenditure is concerned, I said that on the basis of the committee's proposal we will see where it will arrive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u332	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The sixth, under number 389/24-1-2017, second time question by the Member of Parliament, Aetolokarnania, of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Moraitis, to the Minister of Health, on the payment of workers clearers to the services of the General Hospital of Arta, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the honourable Member. The fourth under number 533/24-2-2017 first-round question by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Health, about hospitals at the Children's Hospital in Boston, will not be discussed due to the lack of responsibility of the Ministry. The Ministry responsible is the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity. The third, with number 544/28-2-2017 first time question by MP II of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the problems of contract workers in cleaning at the National Technical University of Athens, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister responsible and will be redefined for discussion. The first under number 537/24-2-2017, second time question by the Member of the Republic of New Democracy, Christos Boukorous, to the Minister of Economy and Development, concerning the increase in unemployment rate in Magnesia due to deindustrialisation. It will not be discussed as a result of an impediment to the Minister responsible and it will be redefined for discussion. The ninth under number 447/6-2-2017 a topical question by MP Athens, New Democracy, Spyridon - Adonidos Georgiadis, to the Minister of Finance, on the meeting of the Prime Minister with representatives of the investment bank “Rothschild”, will not be discussed as a result of the impediment of the Minister responsible and will be redefined for discussion. The tenth under number 345/16-1-2017 a topical question by the Member of Parliament, Mr Spyridonos-Adonidos Georgiadis, to the Minister of Finance, on mismanagement issues in the Greek Defence Systems (ESA), will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister responsible and will be redefined for discussion. Elected under number 506/20-2-2017 second time question by MP II of the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdos to the Minister for Administrative Reconstruction on recruitment under the procedure referred to in Article 63 n.4430/2016, will not be discussed as a result of the impediment of the Minister responsible and will be redefined for discussion. Finally, the twelfth under number 462/9-2-2017 second time question by MP II Athens of the Democratic Association of PASOKs - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdos to the Minister for Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, on ELTAs and the payment of public debts will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister responsible and will be redefined for discussion. The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-06-S1-commons.u333	With the consent of the House at 20.43' the meeting on Wednesday, March 8, 2017, on the subject of Parliament's work: (a) parliamentary scrutiny, a special plenary session on the subject: "Requests and priorities for gender equality in a world that changes: Health, Labour and Civilian violence" and (b) legislative work, according to the agenda distributed.
