ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-27-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICE: According to Parliament's 26-10-2017 authorisation, its minutes of the IZ's meetings were confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau on Thursday, October 26, 2017, with regard to the adoption of the draft law as a whole: ‘Clarification of the Memorandum of Understanding and the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the United States of America on the improvement of international tax compliance and the application of the Tax Compliance Act (FATCA) as well as the Authority Agreement and implementing provisions’.]] I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent question report on Monday, 30 October 2017. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 139/24-10-2017 topical question by MP Arcadias of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Georgios Papaliou to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs on the subject: "Selecting directors of secondary schools in the Prefecture of Arcadia". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 113/23-10-2017 by MP Laconia of the New Democracy Mr Athanasios Davakis to the Minister of National Defence on the subject: "Suspension of the operation of Neo-Suspended Education Centres". 3. PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdos to the Minister of Finance on the subject: "Application of measures in favour of small savers who lost their money with debt cuts in 2012". 4. The question by number 101/17-10-2017 of the Greek People's Association Athens MP Ilias Panagiotarous to the Minister of Health on the subject: 'Ragda increase in measles in the country'. 5. The current question by MP I of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs about vacancies in teachers in primary education. 6. The Question No 104/20-10-2017 by the Member of the Attica of the Independent Greeks Mr Konstantinos Katsikis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs on the subject: "Telegraphs of luxuries". 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The 152/24-10-2017 topical question by Mr. Ioannis Saridis, Member of the European Parliament, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: 'Loyalty of Law 128/1975'. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 140/24-10-2017 topical question by MP Halkidiki of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Catherine Igleze to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs on the subject: "Application for modification of the payment of road and overtime employment of Halkidiki's education teachers". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 114/23-10-2017 topical question by Mr Andreas Katsaniotis, Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, concerning measures to be taken on minorities acting out of control within universities. 3. Under No 108-23-10-2017, a topical question by MP Larissa of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Konstantinos Barriotas to the Minister of Health on the subject: "The EEAY is losing its autonomy." 4. The Question No 105/20-10-2017 by H' Vice President of Parliament and Member of Parliament II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on bilingual kindergartens in Xanthi and Rhodope. 5. The 141/24-10-2017 topical question by MP Xanthi of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Gregorios Stoyannis to the Minister of Tourism on the subject: "Following the licensed number of jobs in casinos". 6. The question asked by MP Elias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Koutsoukos to the Minister of Finance on the subject: 'Reintegration of public debtors into the regulation of the hundreds of doses'. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. Question No 143/24-10-2017 by Independent MEP Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights on the subject: ‘The laws do not apply to judges? Do they have their own laws?’ 8. The Question No 93-17-10-2017 by MP Carditsa of the New Democracy Mr. Konstantinos Tsiras to the Minister of National Defence on the subject: "The institutional problem of the Minister of National Defence". Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS First of all, I would like to inform you that today only one timely question will be discussed, specifically with the Prime Minister. This procedure will take place for the first time after the new regulation has been adopted. Typically the duration of the position for the questioner's protology, which is now ten minutes, also for the Prime Minister's protagonist's protology, which is twenty minutes, as well as for their seconds, which are five and ten minutes respectively. The old times do not apply, which, either way, did not apply in practice. We have arranged for this in the context of the new Rules of Procedure, with a plenary decision, so that the time can be enough and with a little tolerance, so that there can be a substantial procedure in the questions, when it comes to timely questions to the Prime Minister. Also, for those interested in statistics, let me say that today's presence here of the Prime Minister to answer a timely question is the ninth in the periods that he is Prime Minister. Today, therefore, Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras will answer, in accordance with Rules 129 and 132 of the Rules of Procedure, under No 137/23-10-2017, a timely question from the President of the Potamian Parliamentary Group and MEP Mr Stavros Theodorakis on the subject: "What compensatory compensation the Greek Government has secured for Souda and the upgrading of aircraft F-16 from the United States". This is the abbreviation of the question, as the whole text is one and a half pages and it is in the mind of the Prime Minister. I think in ten minutes, in comfort, perhaps with a little tolerance, Mr Theodorakis could develop his word. Mr Stavros Theodorakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-27-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, before discussing arms, we must say a few things about peace. Our country wants peace. He wants the respect of international law. Anyone who disputes, instead of infringements, violations and threats, should go to international courts. But our islands cannot accept that they are threatened and when they are threatened, we must be determined to respond with all our powers to protect the places and people. We want, therefore, to say clear words first of all from the supranational organizations which we are involved in. We do not want NATO to take on board small and large issues in favour of Turkey. We want the European Union to guarantee in practice that Greece's borders are Europe's borders. We agree with President McCrone on a common European intervention force by 2020, a common defence budget and a common defence doctrine of modern Europe. Of course - and this is where our conversation begins - we cannot wait until 2020. "We have a home, when we have ships at sea," said Themistoklis. And today, of course, it is not just ships, it is aircraft, it is tanks and, above all, the people of the Armed Forces. I have detaileds, Prime Minister, in the past, about the need to restructure our army. We must have a target of Armed Forces that is flexible, professionally, modern weapons and, above all, the Armed Forces with high levels of education. We must get out of the old way of organising the camps and defence, a way that mainly serves politicians and their rumours and not defence. Of course, we must somehow prevent the waste and the lobbies from going on in defence. Because it is known that in the name of the country, in the name of the defense, property and property were built in the name of security. Politicians must decide on the issues of organisation and equipment, based on the recommendations of the Staff and Special Officials. So let's go on your visit to America. You said, Mr. Tsipras, to Mr. Trump, that the Souda base must be upgraded. Should you tell us exactly what you mean? Already since August you have consented to an annual extension of the Greek-American defence agreement. In what exchanges? With what guarantees for the country's defensive armour? At the same time, at the same time, at the same meetings, you spoke about the modernisation of F-16. Parenthesis: How many billions are we talking about? For 2.4 billion? For 1,1 billion? Where will this money come from? When? At the expense of what layers of society, what policy? We will accept that most experts have chosen to modernise F-16. But questions remain: At what price, at how many years and at what rate? Especially in a time of crisis, at a time of indifference you had to answer these questions inside the country before you looked so galantic abroad. If you have any answers to the money, for the years, for the rhythms and for the deprivations to which we have to submit to this programme, you must give them to the House today. Ladies and gentlemen, if we accept - and we accept - that modernising the aircraft of the Air Force is urgent, why is the balance of power in the region and in the Aegean region threatening, then this is not the point where we should make use of the Souda paper? We are talking about a decade-old modernisation programme. Isn't it too much? I think we can reasonably say that a persistent, better negotiation would bring three things: speed up the programme, i.e. speeding up the modernisation timetable, reducing the total cost and transfer of know-how. I want to stay in that last one. The Greek industries are absent from the programme. Should they not have been genuinely involved at the outset? When a piece of equipment is performed by domestic industries, it is not only that Greek hands are employed or only the transfer of know-how. We are saving money - and this is the important one - which can go to other costs, other equipment. It is clear from the evidence we have and your statements that the Souda paper, Mr Tsipras, did not even put it on the table. You've only entered the White House to give. In other words, you have dealt with the extension of the Souda base as a footnote in the margins of a mammoth agreement. I think there should be a real debate here in Parliament and you should change the question. By November 2018 when the final agreement on Souda comes, the country must take advantage of all its papers. A five-year modernisation programme for the Souda base cannot be without consideration for the Greek people. We are talking about economic and geostrategic exchanges. I also think that we need to get to the table - always talking about Souda - and a primary market approval for F-35 aircraft, what Turkey will soon obtain. But there is one question that we have in the counter-population, but I think it also has part of the co-population, part of the SYRIZA Members and all of society. Who's planning all this on the defense, Mr. Tsipras? Who decides? I'll tell you without spins. We have no confidence in your co-pilot, Minister of Defense. All these months he faces the Ministry as a headline for unorthodox ambitions and choices. He's always lying to the House. Unless someone says he's lying about the little ones, but he's honest about the big ones! However, this cannot apply to any human beings, to any personality. The responsibility, Mr Tsipras, for the presence and continuation of Mr Kammenos's policy in defence is yours, and so far the state has shown you to be co-responsible for this bad policy. So to find a way out of the question 'Who is studying, who decides', I would like to return to the proposal for a law tabled by the river for several months. The country needs a National Security Council, which will have a say on the major issues of defence and national policy, with the participation of the Heads of the parties, the former Prime Ministers and, of course, the natural leadership of the army. It's a proposition that wins ground. I have heard colleagues from SYRIZA say that there needs to be a consultation at this level and recently I have also heard Mr Kumucaco accept our proposal, slightly changing the title and speaking of the 'National Security Council'. But, Prime Minister, I can only point out - and I would like an answer for this - that these efforts which we all say we need to make for national co-operation on very large, national issues and on defence issues are being blocked by the miserable civil krone that occasionally throw your top associates, the top ministers. In addition to all others, I refer to the recent statements made by Mr Pappas. But I'm going back to the matter and I'm finishing it. You went to America, Mr Tsipras, and you showed a strange one - for you and your party - receptive to what the other side asked for. You have not, apparently, put any request. The possible interpretations are three: Or you felt awe to the superpower or went unprepared or with the many "yes" you tried to cover the anti-American obsessions of the past. I'm concise. So you have to answer the following questions today. How much money for the F-16? What are the promises you made about Souda? Who's gonna make the final decisions? Mr. Kammenos? How about you? The Ministerial Council or a new National Security Council, as we have proposed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-27-S1-commons.u3	Thank you. Mr Alexis Tsipras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-27-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to thank Mr Theodorakis for giving me the opportunity to address the College of National Representation and to answer a really timely question. What makes me wonder sometimes is why some others who leave leaks, sprout dust right and left, and then they hide and don't come to the House to ask these questions. They ask for other topical questions. Mr. Theodorakis raised the topics, although from what I understood from his speech, he was probably one-sided by the means of interplay and make news. It really gives me - and I thank him - the opportunity, because I think it is a good thing to raise these issues, to give some answers. Because some people seem to have failed to understand enough - and this is the least bad one - or, worse still, they do not want to understand, because this serves certain opposition purposes. However, in these matters concerning the foreign and national security policy of the country, I do not think that micro-participatory purposes do not fit, in my assessment. Because it is a question of having the defence of our national interests as a fundamental principle in this House, before I answer one of the questions raised by Mr Theodorakis, to what we have received from the visit to the United States of America. In other words, if you would like me to refer to the tangible results of the real events and - to use the terminology that we have gained from travel - to facts and not to make news of the so-called market of the century. Modernising existing aircraft is the market of the century! So I come to the tangible results. A tangible result, ladies and gentlemen, is the fact that, for the first time, we heard the new President of the United States - some people, when elected, have seen that not only will he be dealing with the debt issue or with the Greek issues, but, on the contrary, he will fully change the United States line on these issues - to speak publicly about the need to relieve the Greek public debt and, in private talks, to commit to close monitoring of this issue. This was the result of the fact that for the first time in public the American President stressed that the Greek economy is standing on its feet - not “will come out of the crisis”, standing on its feet - and came out of the crisis and encouraged American entrepreneurs to invest in Greece. As a result, a working group between our finance ministers is set up to promote concrete investments in Greece, as is the fact that the country's potential for becoming a hub of transport and telecommunications between three continents. The tangible result is the announcement of the construction of the so-called FSRU, the LNG platform, liquefied gas in Alexandroupolis and the purchase of LNG quantities, with the prospect, of course, that we are the second country in Europe, which opens the doors of the medium- and long-term introduction of shale gas, confirming the role of Greece as a hub of energy, as all the important energy paths of the future will pass through our country. As a result, it was recognised at all levels, including the President of the United States, that the next International Exhibition of Thessaloniki, in which a country - after Russia last year and China - will be the United States of America next year, will be a turning point for American companies, especially in the areas of innovation and new technologies. As a result, we have had talks on other important, strategically important, investment in the field of optical fibres, shipyards and infrastructure. This is a tangible result of the recognition by all our interlocutors of Greece's role as a pillar of stability and security, in one of the most sensitive, the most important, but at the same time also of the most volatile areas of our planet, which was confirmed both in the talks of the Minister of the Interior with the President, the head of the United States National Security Council and in the contacts of the Defence Ministers of the two countries. In this context, too, the decision to support Greece by the United States was based both on diplomatic and on defence. Finally, tangible result, so tangible that we have seen it - we have seen the results just within a week - was the assurance from the director of the International Monetary Fund that the Greek economy has passed the cavo, that no new measures are needed, contrary to what many people here imagined in Greece and the press headlines - which, unfortunately, you, Mr Theodorakis, read to him, but you must also be informed from elsewhere - and that not only do they seek new measures, but the assurance that they will hold a constructive stand in the negotiations on the third assessment. So these are the very important and tangible results of the visit. And they're not photographs, like some people rushed to say. I've got enough. Within a short period of time I have been able to take many pictures of the world's most important leaders, I do not need any more. These tangible results, however, which, unfortunately, in Greece, some not only - and they are their right - do not want to recognise them, but they had a preliminary finding of the failure of this very important visit, not before I went down the stairs, but before I went up to them. That's the reality. But it makes sense, for some, if the criterion is the times when Mr. Papandreou, the younger or Mr. Samaras visited the United States, when Greece, unfortunately, just before or during this appalling crisis, had the role of pariah, the "black sheep" of Europe, and the leaders of the country, unfortunately, had to enter, literally or transport, in a photographic frame. These times have fortunately changed, ladies and gentlemen. Greece recovers its prestige, claims, acknowledges its role, upgrades its position internationally. He doesn't beg for a good word, a friendly blow on his back. It is possible in the economy - because the disaster was great - to take more time and effort to cover the lost ground from the damage caused by the governments of the New Democracy and PASOK, but in foreign policy within two and a half years the image of the country has already been completely reversed, the image of the responsible receiver and observer of developments, which, unfortunately, have been imposed by the governments of the crisis. With an active and multidimensional foreign policy, the country upgrades its role, builds alliances, exploits its very important geostrategic advantages. I now come to the essence of your question, Mr Theodorakis. Just in the same way as we are acting on foreign policy, by stepping up the country's prestige, we are also acting on issues relating to the country's defence and security. The country may be in a restrictive context - it leaves it behind day after day - but this does not mean that it will also have cost and even counter the deterrent ability of the Armed Forces to defend our sovereign rights and, of course, to maintain the balance, which in fact means maintaining stability and peace. Because Greece is a force of peace, stability and cooperation in the wider region. We are therefore working consistently not only to maintain the integrity of the Armed Forces but also to strengthen it. That is why, in the next few months, we are planning to announce the integrated plan for the reconstruction of the army. The basis of this plan is to create the most modern army, as well as the availability of forces where we are likely to be threats. From the point of view of equipment, this is how we can best maintain and upgrade existing material and what targeted markets we need to make. This is necessary because we are at a time when the challenges are many and our vigilance must be lasting. In this light, therefore, it has been put on the table - not now, but for eight years, since 2009 - from the leadership of the Armed Forces. And, obviously, some of us, who are not particularly concerned with arms issues, should not know that - you are not entitled, Mr Theodorakis, to know this - but those who participate in the committees of Parliament, in the Committee on Defence, and obviously those who have governed the place are well aware of it. And I would like to stress once again that we are not talking about buying young people. We are talking about upgrading and modernising existing combat aircraft. This is an issue which, of course, has not only been raised for a long time, but has been discussed sufficiently in committee. Well, let me make things clear. We need to look at three issues: the first issue is the answer, which must be answered if this upgrading is necessary, the second, whether it is economically advantageous and the third, if the procedures for informing Parliament were followed. I'm starting at the first and I'm going to leave to this part outside of the political arguments. I will only refer to what is derived from the competent, that is to say, those who know better than anyone else the needs of the Armed Forces. I referred before to the imperative request for the leadership of the Armed Forces in 2009. The reason is as obvious as it is simple. It has to do with the gradual history of the fleet and aircraft systems. The risk now is that if we do not act now, we can get to the point in the next five years because of the withdrawal of most of our fighter aircraft, our Air Force losing a very important part of its deterrent power. Therefore, given the country's economic potential, it has been decided not by the government, I repeat, but by the leadership of the Armed Forces that it is necessary to upgrade the fleet now, yesterday, by integrating new technologies into existing aircraft so that they are, as they say, interoperable with the fifth generation fighters. So here the options we have are two: Or to listen to the repeated recommendations of the Air Force officers and officials who have knowledge and experience in this matter, or to ignore them solely for political purposes. The choice of ours, I imagine, and any other government with an elementary sense of responsibility, is obviously the first. We shall now go to the second point because, if I understand it correctly, neither did you, Mr Theodorakis, question the need for modernization. The second point is whether this option of upgrading the modernisation of F-16 is economically advantageous. Let me begin with the self-evident thing that concerns the fact that the cost of upgrading the fighters will be included in the already existing expenditure, budgeted expenditure, which has also been tabled in the medium-term programme here in Parliament, for the equipment of the Ministry of Defence. We are not talking about new expenditure, therefore, of additional burdens, of extraordinary expenditure, of any of these imaginables written arbitrary and arbitrary, as well as of the media and political forces. Furthermore, it is clear that the leadership of the Armed Forces is taking place, that, due to the evolution of technology in aircraft equipment, it is becoming uncertain or even impossible to enhance combatants in the future and that, if we leave it for the future, it will certainly be much more expensive. But let us look at the figures and allow me, Mr President, a little more time. It was then sent from the Greek side by the leadership of the Armed Forces, the Ministry of National Defence, one, as they call it, to letter of request, which is addressed to the US Government and to which, in the context of a transnational agreement between the two countries - this is always the case - an offer price was requested to upgrade the fleet or part of the F-16 fleet. The information put in mind by the US Ministry of National Defence is that the official response, the official letter is expected in the next few days. I can assure you that, once it comes to the Ministry of Defence, it will be considered by the Committee on Arms, where there will certainly be an answer from the US about prices and an accurate description of the upgrade of the F-16. In the United States we learned the contents of this letter. He hasn't officially come. It is expected next week and, if I am not mistaken, on 3 November it will also be taken into account by the committee. The whole of the aircraft for which the letter of request was requested, the whole of the aircraft that was included in this letter of request, was a hundred and twenty-three aircraft, for which the American side, as is provided for in such procedures, has asked Congress for an approval - I repeat - for the whole of the aircraft, for the hundred and twenty-three to negotiate. The approval requested by Congress for the total of one hundred and twenty-three aircraft amounts to $2.4 billion or about €2 billion. Here, then, was the communication speck set up by some who, either from ignorance or fraud, talked about a $2.4 billion deal, for an agreement of over 2 billion euros. First of all, there's no deal. Let's get to it. There's a request and a negotiation. The American Congress always in such cases what does it do? Approves the maximum amount that the agreement can reach. The maximum amount therefore tells us that it is about EUR 2 billion. In our case, the amount that Greece can make available and we have made clear in our negotiations, in order to include armaments expenditure within the budget expenditure and from the medium-term of our armaments expenditure, so that we do not exceed by one euro these possibilities we have, our'standard' is EUR 1.1 billion. Simple as that. In fact, the debate that is taking place and the assurances we have is about a decade-long expenditure, which means about EUR 100 million a year, precisely to be fully within the expenditure already set aside. This is the market of the century that we have done both expenditure and waste. Let me point out one more thing: this is not a new practice. It has happened in the past in a similar agreement. There is often a transnational agreement that defines the terms of a market or modernisation. The New Democracy colleagues should remember that, not you. The most recent was the agreement on Mr Spelliotopoulos's office concerning the receipt of F-16 with a cost cap from Congress at the time, the $3.6 billion, which in the end was $1.7 billion. It is not something that is happening for the first time. We knew. But the most important thing of all - I repeat - is that we still have no agreement. We're negotiating. We will officially receive the offer, the House will be informed, as I said before, to be assessed by the leadership of the Armed Forces and then to enter the final negotiation on the final amount of the agreement. They know those who are aware of such defence agreements that part of the total amount also applies to the so-called compensatory benefits. Let me make a comment at this point: the so-called compensatory benefits of our modern experience, the painful experience, have only justified their title. Unfortunately, only a small part of them have been exploited to strengthen the domestic defence industry, and in many cases, unfortunately, they have not even been implemented. What happened, as a general rule, is that, through the coup d'état, compensation benefits were handled, public money-sharing mechanisms were set up, gigantic rings were gigantic. It is well known that the sinful story in which the government officials of the parties who are currently in the chairs of Antipopulation and swing the finger and speak of the "markets of the century". So I want to be clear here. We are not going to include in this agreement and any agreement that we may make in the future, compensatory benefits. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] The mistakes of the past are not going to happen, ladies and gentlemen. I only leave a possibility of opting for an exception with regard to ODA, but also with regard to tangible, concrete and clearly costly benefits under project construction in order to maintain the Greek Defence Industry. But OH, compensatory benefits in software or undetermined grey areas, so that some may be mistreating or doing business - because this has happened in the past - as long as we are government is not. Therefore, instead of vague benefits, we will claim every effort, every deal, and the imminent, maximum cost reduction, because we and the last euro of the Greek taxpayer headed for the defence and deterrent capacity of the Armed Forces. I now reply to the third question, whether Parliament's information procedures have been respected on the question of upgrading. On September 20th, almost a month before the visit to the United States, the Minister of National Defence and the Chief of Armed Forces, the Chief of HNDGS, the Chief of Aviation, came here to Parliament. They informed the Committee on Equipment and Contracts on the issue of upgrading the F-16 fighter aircraft of the Air Force. Analyticals! I have the Minutes. I do not present them because you all have access to them and you know that these are classified issues. That is why it makes no sense to extend further. However, in your knowledge, because it is a great deal of hypocrisy and also unfair - I am not talking about you, Mr Theodorakis, but about the leaks that have been made from the New Democracy - that this is a circumvention of procedures, of a huge waste, of the market of the century and that they will bring us to Parliament. Of course, a fisherman. Indeed, it is a matter of prudence, not only because there has been clear information, but also of a clear position of the Vice-President of the New Democracy in committee as to whether or not it is necessary. Of course, I do not know if there are any other kind of internal issues in New Democracy and those responsible are changing, and some executives may have cut off the morning between themselves, but that is not a reason for these serious issues relating to the security of the country, to play games. Ladies and gentlemen, there is also the Souda issue. Mr Theodorakis, I have the feeling that a myth has been set up - not by you, but by a portion of the media - a so-called mammoth agreement involving Souda. We weren't answering because it makes no sense to answer it. For days the central theme that we would go to the United States was Souda, expansion, upgrading, evolution and now we are asked to apologise because we did not implement the myth that some set up! Mr Theodorakis, you should know that the annual renewal of Souda has been taking place for about eleven years. From the Karamanlis governments, all of them - and our own - have been renewing, extending, over a year, the facility agreement that our country has with the United States of America, with regard to the Souda base. I have, indeed, referred to the importance of Souda and the need to see in future a possibility of upgrading its role, but, in my own assessment - and that is certainly not something that can be discussed at the foot, but also requires a substantial debate on the committees - the upgrading and role of the Greek Armed Forces at the Souda base. It's an excellent geostrategic site. The fleet of our Navy is in its entirety, as we all know, in Salamis. A possible future upgrade concerns us as well. But going to a reasonable negotiation in terms of upgrading for aircraft is something that I had not primarily done - if you want - consultation neither I nor the Minister or the Deputy Minister in the relevant committees. It is an issue that has not even been discussed in the CSCE. So I cannot answer why I did not put something at the negotiating table which did not concern us in detail. Maybe it's an idea of you. Put it forward and discuss it, but such serious and geostrategic issues cannot be put forward in a shaky manner. Of course your idea for a National Security Council is an idea that I, too, have said and deserves the time to discuss. It's not mature yet, according to my assessment. However, what I fully agree with you is that these issues need information, consultation and wide-ranging consensus, where this can be achieved, of course. In any case, what does not need is urgency, irresponsibility and micro-party feasibility. We, with a sense of responsibility towards the country, manage these issues. I believe that the attitude of the Qualified Opposition once again was irresponsible. First, he lifted a helmet for suspicion of a market of the century, for dark paths and agreements, then threw a radio silence, and, when he understood the mistake, he stopped talking about it. I want to believe he did it because he understood the wrong thing and not because some of them pulled the ear. And I say this because we all know that, apart from the intent goods of all of us, these issues operate and circulate in the corridors and various people who have or represent interests and are photographed to the right and left with representatives of parties at events. Well, a photo isn't a problem. Problem is when they carry their positions. In any case, therefore, Mr Theodorakis, the question of upgrading the F-16 was not raised either in return for someone or for the past week - it is a chronic request - nor is it hiding dark trade. It is one of the days of 2009 - I repeat - a formulated need for the Armed Forces. We will do our best to reach the best possible agreement, an agreement that will significantly strengthen the deterrent power of our Air Force and its pilots who daily give a heroic fight to defend our country's sovereign rights. I want to believe that there is no different position and attitude within the National Representation. This is the duty of all of us to do so, namely to ensure the deterrent capacity of our Air Force, the deterrent power, strengthening the power of our country - I repeat - as a force of peace and stability in the region, because that is what we are doing. If power correlations are to be reversed, we will reduce our ability to intervene in order to ensure our sovereign rights and peace, stability in the wider region. I can assure you that this will not happen and that our stance will continue to be a responsibility, both in terms of upgrading the role and prestige of the country and in terms of maintaining the deterrent capacity of the Armed Forces.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-27-S1-commons.u5	Thank you very much. The President of the River Parliamentary Group has the floor for five minutes, with reasonable tolerance. A little more attention to secondary speeches, please - I am not talking about you, Mr Theodorakis - because after 11 noon there is a celebration for the national anniversary from the workers' club. Mr. Theodorakis, you have the floor with your comfort.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-27-S1-commons.u6	Obviously, the recommendation concerns mainly the Prime Minister who doubled the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-27-S1-commons.u7	The debates are useful.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-27-S1-commons.u8	They are useful, but we can talk about it in the time that we have identified. You have often referred, Mr Tsipras, in recent weeks to make news. You do it methodically, you do it, your partners do it, the ministers do it, some Members do it. Apparently, some communicationists, some of you advertisers have recommended you do it. But let me remind you that the term was first used in our country in 2014 to describe the news that you spread for your opponents. So I would say not to talk so often about the make news, unless it is a bitter - justified, I would say - that he was seized of the monster that you, you and your allies in the government, the A.N. It's not the present time to note...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-27-S1-commons.u9	Mr. Quick, I would ask you not to interfere.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-27-S1-commons.u10	You're very welcome. Quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-27-S1-commons.u11	And don't cause any designations that I can return to you in multiples, and at least not the ministerial benches, not right now. [[Noise in the Chamber]] We started 'outside'. I've heard that since Golden Dawn. You'll tell me now. I was just saying, then, that the theme of the fast news, which has been very affected by the political life of the country in recent years, is a case that starts with the SYRIZA - ANEL. You should, if you want to discuss this, really do your self-criticism at a time when you have used them to fight your opponents. Now, let's go to the Americans. You are defending, Mr. Tsipras, Mr. Trump for saying he has thoughts about the debt. You have reached the point of claiming credit, because at the IGC America, which has been decided for two years, will be an honorable country. We have known this for two years. It was an administrative decision there, after China, then the Russians would come too. A little more and you would tell us that your visit to America also mobilized American tourists to come to our country. You said now that you talked about investments, which is useful. So I heard you say to Mr. Trump, who we learned that he was interested in the Greek, that the Greek is now on its way. Which country did the Greek begin, Mr. Tsipras? Which country did the investments you say started? Because in our country investment starts on paper, but there are still no jobs at all. Investments are not Parliament's decisions. Investment must be the machines that will work, the jobs that will grow. In our country too - I insist - these investments are still on paper. I shall now refer to this particular point of defence. Obviously, we agree on the big titles. And I think we all agree with the Qualified Opposition and we and you, for what we say about peace, security in the region, about the integrity of the Armed Forces. But despite the information you mentioned and which was not known to us, of course, and you should have done so before your trip to America, you did not, however, answer the important questions that the public has in this case. What's your defense plan and who decides? And why does Souda in this plan look like a small footnote? I think that your position today, which says that it is not at present to discuss or, anyway, to consider or see what is going on with Souda, is a harmful national position. Souda is our big card. At a time especially, when America is having a hard time in the region, where there are explosions in the region, we must, on the basis of Souda, ensure the country's defence, economic exchanges for society and a stronger place for the country in the European and international environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-27-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr. Theodorakis. The reason for this is - and will close the debate - the Prime Minister for his denunciation, for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-27-S1-commons.u13	I, Mr President, just want to welcome Mr Theodorakis' relocation to his dentistry in relation to his initial speech. Because in his second speech he told us that, okay, it's not that we gave it all up, that we agreed it all, that we handed it all over, as was the basic line of the "fake news" bands in the country, which had nothing to do with it, Mr. Theodorakis, in 2014. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] There were also in 2014 to support governments that imposed the most disgusting anti-social policy, calling it a philosophical one, which they did at night and which they do not have what to say today - because they are evacuating them - they discover plague and cholera in hospitals. These are the "fake news"! I don't want to lift the tons, I'm sorry, but I'm getting carried away. I would therefore like to welcome the fact that in your first speech you were in this line, in the second speech you told us that the problem is that we have no plan. We have a plan, Mr. Theodorakis. A plan upgraded the international role and prestige of the country. With a plan for this country, which was the Paris, the Black Sheep, which the leaders of large and European countries did not want to photograph either next to Greek leaders or who were going to beat their backs or say "do your homework", within two and a half years all the leaders of the most important powers of the world have passed by Greece. I, with official invitations to the capitals of these countries and acknowledging the international role of the country, not only as a force that defends values, but also as a force that plays a vital role in a sensitive region defending peace, stability and cooperation. This is the reality and anyone who does not want to see it reality, obviously does it for reasons of communication, but the Greek people recognize that. I shall now refer to two - three issues on substance, and I shall close with that. Mr. Theodorakis, you know, and in an interview I stressed that I did not go there, to represent a party, but I went as Greek Prime Minister, carrying the views, the positions, the values of the party. I didn't leave them in the corner. Everyone knew who I was when I went there. I'm the one who was in Havana a year ago, and I delivered Fidel Castro's eulogy. The people who invited me didn't forget. They didn't have amnesia. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] But that is where I was found as the Greek Prime Minister, who defended the country's national interests. Whether they are tangible or not they are tangible, let the Greek people judge them. Some people, of course, are sad about that. Some fantasize we're going to live nights ‘15 again. They were fantasized in both the first evaluation and the second one. Third, one of the thief's thieves. Some people are sad to see that all our partners now acknowledge that sacrifices should not go missing. And they won't be lost. Unemployment has fallen by 6% since we took over. Is it too much? It's a little bit. Because some others had taken care of before to loot and lead her from 8% to 27%. One and a half million jobs have been lost. We've reduced this big loss. Four hundred thousand jobs have been won. We need to fight and fight to get the country out of the crisis. But the fact is that the country now regains its role and can have a strong role now, as a force of stability, but also a force that plays an active role, through the triangular alliances, along with Cyprus, Israel, Egypt, Jordan, Palestine, through our active role in the European Union, the South Summit, the alliances that we have set up, through our active role in the Balkans. We are not the 'fly' and 'carpage' anymore, no matter how many people don't want to understand it. The most important thing, however, Mr Theodorakis, was that when President Trump was elected, the messages he sent out were that the Greek debt issue is a European matter. "Find it up," he said. In fact, in a few words, he would let it be "let Shoeble solve it, it's his thing", when he meant a European theme. And today we have the picture, not just of insisting on the fixed line of the US administration, which we had met during President Obama's term of office, but of ensuring that he will play a part. He's interested. Greece is a stable reliable ally and is not a European case. This is very important. Now, from there on, whether or not the jobs started or not, whether the investments were strengthened or not, Mr Theodorakis, I will tell you one thing: from one day onwards, everything will not be changed, but this country, for five years in which it has been under recession. At some point, it reached 11%, 7%. We lost 25% of gross domestic product. This year, we'll close by number two. And if we keep this up, I believe that next year too, we will be able to positively disprove the growth estimates, which may be next year, in 2018, at around 3%. That's not on their own. They don't do this on their own. Of course, there's the red tape beast. The battle we must fight with self-evident, often in this place. But it wasn't all on their own. The shift from the hard days of 2012, 2013, 2015 to today's days, which again nurtures an exit hope, tour was not made on its own. Of course, your role is to exercise opposition. I accept it, and I think you are, to a large extent and well-meaning opposition. However, you should not identify yourself with the block that is guided by the "fake news" bands. For the Greek people will judge and judge all of us and our mistakes, but also our successes when the time comes. I shall therefore close by saying, Mr Theodorakis, that for the first time there is, not only the possibility of exit but also the possibility of strengthening the country's role internationally. This is something that should not be enjoyed only by the Greek Government. It concerns all Greeks and all parties without exception. It is an important success and we will continue this responsible effort, in order not only to leave the country behind completely the seven-year-old crisis, but to leave behind and the model that has led us to it, the model that has to do, not only with the distorted production process, the distorted productive model, but also the model of corruption, the model of interoperable, the model of the splitting public money, especially in armaments. We all know in this place that, when some people put us with false information in EMU, some in Europe did the wrong eyes, precisely because at that time there were'shops of the century', not now. And because they knew we didn't have the money to pay for it, they gave us loans from their banks to pay off the equipment and the "markets of the century" and the media. Many of these come to the House and others will come, unfortunately. That's the reality. In these times, then, we must leave behind, not only the crisis, the times of interlocutory, corruption, the hatred, the distortions that have led us to the crisis. And he wants a collective effort to do that. I hope you are, in the broadest sense, in this collective effort with the right place, with the right side, on the right bank of the river, as you say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-27-S1-commons.u14	The debate on the current question to the Prime Minister has been concluded. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-27-S1-commons.u15	With the consent of the House at 11.05 p.m. the sitting is closed for the next Monday, October 30, 2017, at 18.00, on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
