ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the SPECIFIC FACILITY ORGANIZATION In accordance with Rule 143 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, at the initiative of the Chief of Staff and President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis, at the level of party leaders, on the economy, the decisions of the Eurogroup and the commitments made by the Government. The proposal was presented on 16 June. According to Rule 143(4) of the Rules of Procedure, the duration of the speech by the Prime Minister and President of the Radical Left coalition Group, Mr Alexis Tsipras and the Chief of Officerial Response and President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, on whose initiative today's debate is taking place, is twenty-five minutes of the hour for everyone. The length of speaking of the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups, the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Photini Gennimatas, the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr.Nikolaos Michalliakos, the KKE Dimitrios Kotsoubas, the Independent Greeks Mr. Panagiotis Kammenos and the Union of Centrons Mr. Vasilis Leventis, as well as the Potamios Stavros Theodorakis, are twenty minutes of the hour for everyone. Two Ministers will be taking part in today's debate. The length of the speech of the ministers will be ten minutes an hour for everyone. With regard to secondary speeches, the speaking time is fifteen minutes an hour for the Prime Minister and ten minutes an hour for the Presidents of the other parliamentary groups and the Ministers. Finally, the Prime Minister can quantify for five minutes of the hour. Now, beyond the type I read to you, the first series of first talks will be completed and it will be closed with a speech by Minister Giorgos Huliarakis, which will include the time of his secondary speech. We will go to secondarys - again in the same order - and will also be closed with the inclusion of first- and secondary speaking time, Mr Chakalotos. The Prime Minister will not speak three times, as we have agreed. I hope that the debate will proceed well and I would ask you to do so for the time being. Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the feeling that the Chief of Staff Responsibility has caused this debate from a rather acquired speed - I cannot explain it otherwise - of the pre-assessment period, of the period of negotiations for the second assessment, where it could, as long as it was delayed, exploit a real sense of anxiety and uncertainty. In this sense, a whole pamphlet of catastrophe, distortion, falsification and riskyness had been established, with false prophecies of dystopia and consequence. But now we have a deal. And, generally speaking, we have a good deal. So the one who has to apologize for his attitude is not the government, but the false prophets of destruction and against the few fanatics within the party who believed that the destruction is coming and along with this disaster, the fall of the government, in order to manage the destruction - those who have led us to it - but above all to the Greek people, to the attitude taken by the Severe Anti-Civilism throughout the course of a difficult negotiation. Because now that the evaluation has been closed, it is no longer easy to sell disaster and fear. Leave it to the two and a half weeks since the Eurogroup decision of 15 June, the facts themselves are so overwhelming that they are not available for distortions, they are not available for counterfeiting, they are not available for dangers. The way the money markets have welcomed the results of the June 15 agreement speaks for themselves. Greek bonds note daily rally on the markets, their yields have been at the lowest since 2009, and the course of the Greek Exchange shows that stability has been restored and confidence in the Greek economy comes back day after day. Even Moody's, perhaps the most stringent global credit ratinger of the country and banks, upgraded the value of the Greek economy and the Greek banks, while Greek companies finally have, after a long time, been borrowing on the international money markets at competitive rates. So the Greek economy is constantly correcting its position, and soon enough will have returned to competitive and sustainable levels of its lending, since the factors - politicians, I would say - have been missing, not the economicists - who have been shaping its image lately. Because, you know, the fundamental sizes of the Greek economy do not correspond to today's loan rates. It's much better. It is enough to recall that the financial adjustment has been completed, as we are continuing to go beyond the objectives of the programme. The growth rates are now positive, with the prospect of even greater improvement, while all indicators of the Greek economy, indicators of production, employment, exports, consumption, demonstrate its positive prospects. What does it mean, however, by what I said, that there are no longer those political factors that have distorted the real image of the Greek economy? It means very simply that the Eurogroup decision responds convincingly to market reservations about the sustainability of the Greek debt. In complete contrast to the allegations made by the New Democracy and Mr Mitsotakis that we allegedly gave it all and took nothing, the Eurogroup agreement, in general confession at international level, is a positive milestone in the process of completing the programme, because for the first time it contains clear commitments and not simple promises to implement concrete Greek debt regulation measures. Let me be more specific here: According to this decision, the financial needs of the Greek public should not be more than 15% of the country's gross national product in the medium term since 2018. First and foremost, then, we have a ceiling on the annual debt financing needs, which will not go beyond what happens. Secondly, we have now agreed on the surpluses to be achieved in the medium term. Here too, attention is needed, because a great deal has been said - particularly by the Opposition - on this issue. With the agreement, therefore, on primary surpluses of 2% after 2022, we should all know that Greece will be the only country in the Eurozone that will be under a positive exemption from the Stability Pact, which should have been after 2022 and in proportion to our debt, we should have had surpluses much - much higher, above 2.5%. Let me make a comment here, because this is indeed a critical debate, that is to say, on the level of the surpluses. On the other hand, however, of the Anti-Population and, in particular, of the New Democracy, it would be necessary for one to say, a particular courage to focus on this debate, because the Greek people have a memory. Recently were the results of the negotiations during your governments, where you committed the country to primary surpluses of 4% by 2030. Unfortunately, then, the Greek people have a memory. To return, however, to the points of the agreement, with data on the primary surpluses, the tools to be used are clearly described so that the country's financial needs do not exceed this financial ceiling. In other words, we are talking about prolonging the weighted average of the maturity of Greek bonds, but also about a period of grace for the interest rates that both reaches 15 years. The final quantification, of course, depends on the growth rates that will ultimately be predicted by the ESS in cooperation with the other institutions. But the decision does not stop there. It goes a step further and integrates into the regulatory tools available and the so-called 'development clause', which I will recall was a lasting request from the Greek side since 2015 and now appeared on the negotiating table as the French contribution, the French idea before the decision of 15 June. According to this, if growth is lower than the forecasts of the institutions and the ESM, then we will automatically have even greater growths of maturity, but also a longer period of grace for interest payments, because - I recall the most important element - the needs of the Greek State on the basis of the decision cannot exceed 15% of GDP. So here we don't just have a promise, not even, I would say, a certain commitment. On the contrary, we have a clear description, a locked algorithm to regulate the Greek debt. So anyone who wishes can study this algorithm and identify precisely and quantitatively the adjustment measures of the Greek debt which will start to apply immediately after the end of the programme with a sequence of mere mathematical operations. And believe me, money investors seem to want to identify precisely, which is why they seem to throw disaster into their basket. Most of all, however, the argument that this decision is supposed to be nothing more than a simple repetition of the 2012 promise, an argument we have heard many times from your side and that - let me express it - touches the limits of nonsense. And I'll explain why. In 2012, all that had been agreed was that if necessary - if necessary! - the debate would be opened on possible measures to eliminate the Greek public debt. Today, on the contrary, we do not - I repeat - have a promise to discuss, but a specific roadmap, clearly identifying the algorithm of quantifying the measures to be implemented since August 2018. But we also have two other elements: Firstly - and I think more importantly - we have a clear commitment on the part of our partners to the country's successful return to the money markets and, indeed, not in the hopes of it, but also with specific initiatives, such as this very important commitment to create a reserve for Greek bonds if there are turmoil in the international markets at that time. Secondly, there are specific, additional commitments for development assistance, including the establishment of a development bank, to ensure the dynamic recovery of the Greek economy. So that is what the money investors see, that is what the rating houses see, that is what the markets, gentlemen of the New Democracy, who so much swear on them and, unpleasantly, return their positions to Greek bonds. So, behind the belligerent of the statements and publications you leak, there is another picture you do not like and that is why you want to hide it. It is the image of a Greece that has been afflicted by a long crisis, which has left important social wounds and a Greek people with many sacrifices, but a Greece whose image is not what some want, but the image of a country that is finally turning a page, which makes constant steps to get out of the crisis and the Memorandum Committee. And these steps are forward, to the future and not to the past. I heard from you and another argument that it was supposed to be the steps that have been taken in recent weeks that have only succeeded in getting back to where the previous government, Mr Samaras and Mr Venizelos left us in the summer of 2014. So let's see things one by one, because I remember when you visited me about ten days ago, with a backbone in front of the media, you said to go to Parliament to tell the truth. So let's say the truth, Mr. Mitsotakis, that the Greek people will hear what you in the New Democracy are comparing: The so-called success story of that period, Mr Samaras and Mr Venizelos, can be compared with the facts on which we are not celebrating now, because we want to be responsible and restrained. But compare them to see what the real dynamic recovery of the Greek economy is today with what we had at the time. Where to start? Let's start with your dear friend, the primary surpluses. What have you achieved in 2014, the famous success story? You had succeeded in falling out of target of 1.3% of GDP - and we, for a target of 0.5%, caught 4.2% - and finally brought a surplus of 0.2%. But let us leave the surpluses and talk about other numbers. You want to talk about employment? How much was the unemployment received by us in January 2015? Do You Remember? It was 27%, with a total loss during the two years of the success of Mr Samaras - Venizelos, over two hundred and fifty thousand jobs. Imagine not being a success story how many would have been lost! We need to talk about the liquidity that you handed over the funds to try to drugize our own government's negotiating effort before the elections. To talk about the objectives of the primary surpluses that you agreed on for the three years 2015-2018, which if we maintained after the negotiation and did not review them downward, would only lead to loss for this three-year period 2015-2018 of about 20 billion euros from the Greek economy. Should we also talk about extortion and for purely communication reasons an attempt to exit the markets that the Samara Government has then attempted, which obviously did not take place for the purpose of preparing for the release of the loans from the official sector, but only to build this furniture, falsified, communication success story? Because everyone knew - and especially outside the country - that the country's return to borrow with its own powers, the country's return to markets, could not be achieved without Greek debt regulation. But you preferred to work not for the benefit of the country, but in order to serve a specific communication account. Instead of speaking publicly and openly about the need to regulate the debt, you have begged for their sustainability certificates. You were not concerned, in other words, with the measures that had to be taken in order to create safety conditions, for sure on the markets, but only with the communication account. And you had no guarantee at all, no commitment from our creditors to the necessary measures for debt write-down. Only - if you remember - when the Director of the International Monetary Fund had once resigned the then Minister of Finance to claim debt measures from the Eurogroup and the German Minister of Finance, he addressed the then Minister of Finance by telling him the unparalleled 'Forget it Giannis'. And of course, both Giannis and Antonis and Vangelis and all of you have forgotten it forever. And today, ladies and gentlemen, the Civic Opposition comes and strongly criticises our own negotiation. Its right, of course, to criticise, but to know that the arguments and, above all, the results are always compared to its own. Because this negotiation at least brought about a substantial impairment of the objectives of the primary surpluses, but also essentially, concrete and measurable results for debt write-down. And they are results that you cannot distort as much as you are trying, nor do you, but you, and your various extremist allies in Europe and extremists of the European Right, but above all, I would say, extreme enemies of the country. For we cannot forget that they had planned to leave the euro and now they come to Greece to sell you civil protection, such as your counterpart, Mr Weber, the German team leader of the Eurogroup of the European People's Party. To sum up, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the current image of the Greek economy has nothing to do with the artificial image of success that you tried to create in 2014. Today we have a positive decision to regulate the Greek debt, which convinces the markets, we have achieved the budgetary objectives, but also a clear improvement in all fundamentals. We have restored confidence and great momentum with huge investment interest. In view of the above, we now have the possibility of sustainable and definitive - this is the most important - return to the markets, which will also be prepared with caution, without rush and in any case not for communication, but for essential reasons, to guarantee a smooth exit from the programme in August 2018. In order to guarantee that Greece will not need a programme of support for the official sector and adjustment programme, but will be able to refinance its debt self-financing and thus finally recover its economic sovereignty. However, we want to achieve this with society upright, with the least possible wounds and, above all, with the prospect of the growth that is coming to heal the major wounds that have been created during the seven years of the crisis. And here, if you like, there is also the essential difference between a progressive, pro-political plan for exiting the crisis and a conservative and neoliberal plan for exiting the crisis. Because, ladies and gentlemen, our analysis of the exit from the crisis is not exhausted on the markets. In addition to the necessary fiscal consolidation, we consider that the site urgently needs a serious and planned reconstruction plan. A reconstruction plan, however, which will have the job centre rather than the job crash, as the extreme neoliberals of the New Democracy want. Because the restoration of the competitiveness of the Greek economy cannot be based on a policy of complete deregulation of the labour market by demolition of all social protection and the welfare state, with models of hunger wages and at the same time tax exemptions for large capital. And that's the big difference we have. Greece, however much you could see, Mr Mitsotakis, is a developed country, has nothing to do with the developing countries where the International Monetary Fund has imposed extreme neoliberal programmes. Greece cannot be done and there will be neither Chile of Pinochet nor Britain of Thatcher. And that is not only a question of social prospects, but also of efficiency. Because it has been shown by the experience itself that labour costs reduction policies lead to a reduction in productivity at the same time and ultimately prove to be unequal and economically inefficient, ultimately result in a fall in productivity and create conditions of social tension and a loss of competitiveness. We, therefore, on the opposite side of this model, bring a new example, a new model, which ultimately proves to be the only effective. The model of a capital intensive and high value-added economy, which will not be based on lowering wage costs, but on exploiting the comparative advantages of our country and its human resources with a focus on the quality of the product produced and not on reducing production costs. We therefore prefer to strengthen sectors of the economy that are based on innovation, new technologies and the country's high-qualified human resources. For the first time in the crisis, we are strengthening research, while we are making a systematic effort to boost extroverty and also to stimulate active demand, so that the Greek economy can also be strengthened by boosting exports and by increasing internal demand by a balanced model, which focuses on increasing wage share in total GDP, increasing the available income and, above all, on its fair distribution through redistribution mechanisms. And they are just in these two anti-thematic plans for the development model of the Greek economy, which is identified by the founding and persistent difference of the Left and Right, which Mr Mitsotakis so much wants to delete as the defenders of the so-called reformist centre, who are actually handed over unconditionally to all the basic assumptions of neoliberalism. And it is, if you will, our plan - not yours - which has already begun to bear some positive fruit, despite the heaviness of the memorial measures. I'll give you, for example, some clues. Let me begin with the most important, the issue of employment. Because I do not think anyone will argue that if there is a national objective today, it is to regain the job, employment, which we have achieved at an unacceptably rate of unemployment, not for a European but also for a country that respects itself. So in the period immediately after the crisis, with Prime Minister Papandreou, there were five hundred forty-three thousand jobs lost in the overall balance. During the period of the short time that Mr Papademos took office, another ninety-three thousand jobs were lost and during the period with Prime Minister Samaras and co-pilot, Mr Venizelos, two hundred and fifty thousand jobs were lost. In two and a half years of our own governance, we have for the first time since the positive balance crisis, and this balance shows that two hundred and thirty thousand jobs have been won. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] These are elements, numbers, which are good to have in mind when making comparisons, and they are, of course, numbers that come from those agencies and ELSTAT and from the Ministry of Labour, the 'ERGANI', which are not questionable. At the same time - because you know and will be right to say - an important thing to change the index, to move from job losses to job creation - of course it is still a long way to go, but the fact that we have slowly succeeded and covered at least the territory of the previous two years is important - but it has not only to do with jobs but also with the quality of work and I will fully agree. For the first time, then, we also have a positive contribution to GDP growth and from private consumption, precisely because of the increase in wages, despite the - there is no objection - to high taxation, while at the same time we reverse the trend that prevailed on the Greek labour market following the reforms of 2011 and 2012. For the first time, the balance between full-time and part-time employment is turning towards full-time. In particular, within three years, from 2012 to 2015, with the prevalence of elastic forms of work, we have had a 60-40 rate in favour of part-time labour relations, while in recent months there has been a overthrow of this trend with full-time jobs to increase and take the lead again. And that, as you can see, has nothing to do with any spontaneous trend in the labour market. On the contrary, it is an achievement both of the control mechanisms which, for the first time, operate with the greatest efficiency, but also of the targeted programmes for the integration of the unemployed into the labour market. But the deep line of separating us from New Democracy does not only appear on the labour market. It is more than obvious, I would say, and in our effort to build a new social state. First of all, I should like to refer to the countermeasures that we voted on and you voted against, and they will be implemented in Genoa on 1-1-2019, because the target for the 2018 surplus, as much as those who ask for and pray, will be achieved, as everyone knows, and these measures will be implemented. To start with the rent subsidy measure of EUR 600 million, which will cover almost half of the country's households living in a rent or having a housing loan, and which can reach up to EUR 1 000 per year per household, an amount which is really available to households, which is very much needed. The extremely important reinforcement of the grant policy through an increase of EUR 250,000 000 000 in the budget for family allowances, which is currently at EUR 650,000 000, with the aim of strengthening the allowance from the first and second children, while strengthening third parties and multitasks. The extension of school-leaving programmes, which have been so demeaning - dishonestly, superstitiously - I would say, during the previous period in primary and high school areas with high rates of unemployment and poverty, in order to cover almost 50% of schoolchildren throughout the country, as well as a 50% increase in the total number of pre-school age children, which can be registered free of charge at nurseries. This way from the ninety thousand children who were entitled to register today, in 2019 the posts will reach the hundred twenty thousand and in 2020 will exceed thirty-five thousand. The radical reform of the financial contribution of those insured in the pharmaceutical expenditure, as in 2019 for whoever has an income of up to EUR 700, will be zero, while for those who have between EUR 700 and 1,200, it will be reduced by approximately 50%. The provision for a further thirty thousand jobs in both the private and the public sector, mainly with the aim of restoring the new scientists and with the obligation of employers to maintain workers for at least six months after the completion of the programme. But it is not just what is going to happen in 2019 or even earlier, I would say, some of them - if everything shows, we have always been so much over-performance of the economy - but it is what has already been done, as has already been done. I would like to speak in particular about the health sector as an example. At the time that you and your policies used to extinguish the majority of Greek society in the midst of an unprecedented economic crisis and difficulties in private hospitals, we came and gave access to two and a half million uninsured fellow citizens in public health services. All citizens can now go to a public hospital and be hospitalized, without being afraid of the bill that will come to them, staying helpless, without medical treatment. We also managed to reverse the picture of total destruction and the torque that was for four years, the dramatic reduction of staff and for the first time, since October 1915, we have increased staff in public hospitals. From October 15 to today, despite the suffocating frameworks for public recruitment - which we observe - we do not come out of them. We have supported the National Health System with about nine thousand people, who have been on duty for the past two years, and the three thousand are permanent staff, and they have been or are expected to be held in the next six months for another nine and a half thousand jobs, of which about five thousand will be permanent staff. And I repeat, all of this in the commitments we have made to meet the objectives in terms of the number of workers in the public sector. But that is because it was and remains our decision to give absolute priority to saving the health system, which you had consciously led to the collapse. And our next major objective in health is by the end of '17, to set up two hundred and thirty new local health units in eighty different urban areas of the country, mainly those facing the most acute social problem. You will now tell me, gentlemen of the New Democracy, these may be small letters for you. We know that. Even though we are talking about it, as is revealed by the exam on scandals in health and especially from the case of "Dynnan", for many of you and your families, there was no concern about how you will be hospitalized in a public hospital or how you will pay the hospital to a private person. Because you were hospitalized for free at "Dynan" to the health of the suckers! Or am I wrong? If I'm wrong, disobey me. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] However, I now come to the welfare sector, which, from the very beginning, has thrown down all our forces in January of '15 and we continue our efforts to bring about a further halt to the humanitarian crisis. So today, five hundred and fifty thousand of our fellow citizens - those who are commonly said to be under the radars - receive our social income of solidarity and lasting concern are to extend it to all those who need it. But we are moving further in order to tackle the deeper causes of the crisis. And that is why 10% of the beneficiaries of social solidarity income very soon, starting in 2017, will have the possibility of joining employment programmes, so that they do not need an allowance, so that they can ensure absolutely essential living. Because our goal is no more than the total elimination of extreme poverty. We may not have created it, but we are the ones who have the mandate and the duty to eliminate it and we will do so. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] So he wonders what it might have to do with all the things I described to you with the New Democracy programme, the hard and anti-social programme, I would add. A programme aimed at further demolition of the social state, a programme that does not hide that there will also be massive redundancies, a programme which does not - barely - stipulates it - will be strengthened in the interests of competitiveness, employers' arbitrariness. And it does not hide - and it does - that sensitive sectors of public services will be granted in private interests and at higher budgetary costs. That's the reality. Ladies and gentlemen, the dividing lines between SYRIZA and the New Democracy are as clear as it was and will always be the difference between social protection policies and neoliberalism. To borrow a phrase from Mrs Gennamas - I am not sure she meant it when she said it - Mr Mitsotakis, it separates us from your programme and from your policy. And that is what the Greek people are aware of. However, the Greek people are aware of something else that, with your programme and your positions, you cannot convince anyone more than a hard core of the voters of the New Democracy and not the traditional voters. The Greek people know you well, Mr. Mitsotakis. He knows you and he's tried you. So pretending to be the new one is the last thing you could invest in. Now you can no longer invest in destruction and danger, since your own events have now been disproved. So what's left of you? To invest in an artificial polarization, targeting and muddling towards government officials and creating artificial social tensions, when playing games with public health, urging the trade unions of the IAEA to change their attitude to continue the strike in the middle of unprecedented heats and while their demands were satisfied when provoking a gathering of policemen in the Exarches Square and hoping to turn an area of Athens into a battlefield and when again playing the supposedly government intervention work in the field of justice. Why? Because the Minister of National Defence made the big crime encourage someone who claimed to have information on the big case, the biggest pan-European drug trafficking case - it did not establish anyone's ear - with more than two tons of heroin to give it to justice, so that the case could be cleared. That was the big crime. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, I do not know if you have understood that for the last two weeks you have been giving the image of a party that has been unoriented and has been guided by the separate and most of the time, I would say, 'excellent' agenda for your Vice-President, Georges. An agenda, I confess, extremely effective for a small party on the extreme right, such as Mr Karatzafiris's People's Orthodox Alert, where he has poured out, but I fear extremely'stone' for an order which, despite the great differences that we have had in the past, has never been so distant, so far from the sense of national responsibility. Mr. Mitsotakis, I'll tell you right away. Opposition to the government, yes, it is legitimate. Opposition to the ruling party and its positions, to its political proposals, yes, the harder, the better for democracy. But against the interests of the country and society, opposition to the country, no, Mr Mitsotakis! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] And if you have chosen to do so in your desperation, neither will we and the Greek people allow you. And now that the story of the disaster is finally over without a dragon, we will not allow you to put on tripping and undermine the great nation - I would say - trying to get the country out of the crisis, step back on its feet and breathe the Greek people. And in this effort, the story will also vindicate our struggles and choices, at the cost, but it will vindicate them. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Despite the fact that we are alone in this effort, we will succeed. As much as this does not like some, we will be the ones who will take out the country, the Greek society and the people from the great deadlocks and the great adventure to which you led it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u3	Please very much, the Chief of Staff and President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u4	Mr Tsipras, I believe that you are the last in this Chamber to make suggestions to the New Democracy about how to play the role of counterpopulation. We remember you in your furious period. We don't forget it that easy. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I have asked, ladies and gentlemen, for the prior agenda to be held, so that the Greek people can actually learn the consequences of what was agreed in the Eurogroup of 15 June, but also for the purpose of making, Mr Tsipras, an overall assessment of the Greek economy's progress over the last two and a half years. This is an agreement, which has been signed by SYRIZA - ANEL, but unfortunately it has been binding on the country for many years since the end of this coup d'état. Only since we tabled the request for the prior order of debate to date, you have already exceeded yourself. I am therefore obliged to raise three issues at the beginning of my speech, not only to highlight the political extremity to which you are leading by drifting public life, but also for obvious reasons of institutional order. Why do you care, Mr Tsipras, every day that passes, to remind the Greek people that your political cynicism has no limits and that you are a group of power of all times and circumstances. A first question - I saw you felt the need to mention it in your prototype - Panos Kammenos. The style and the morale - to say it as I must - the ruthlessness of the public presence of the Minister of National Defence is in the knowledge of all. Obviously, Mr Tsipras, you welcome all this and you identify it with it. You also preferred him as a government partner. But tell us, Mr. Tsipras, is Mr. Kammenos enjoying some kind of political, institutional and ultimately legal improperness? Can he be poor on the Internet, put up vulgarities and then the pandemonium created, invoke his child and all that with political life, Mr. Tsipras, continue as if nothing had happened? Can Mr. Kammenos underestimate the practices and executives of the Armed Forces by provoking military regulations? Can he use military helicopters like his hobby, his game? And can - since you have referred to this - the Minister of National Defence, in favour of a European democratic country, have parallels - be careful, at once - talks with an isobite incarcerated for drug trafficking? This is a diversion that violates the separation of powers. Only the Minister of Justice has already covered it, and you too, Mr. Tsipras, once again. When have these been in our country before? And since you like to confuse things and create false impressions, I repeat the New Democracy's position to be fully understood: Anyone involved in criminal cases must suffer the consequences of the law, as it is called, however powerful it may be. And if he finds himself guilty, he'll go to jail. Only in a democracy, Mr Tsipras, is justice judging, since the prosecution authorities have completed their work. Neither Tsipras nor Kammenos nor Mitsotakis. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The government's systematic intervention in the work of justice is an institutional diversion and a deep anti-democratic act. So I ask you directly, and will you have the opportunity to answer me in your dentistry: Mr. Tsipras, have you been informed in advance by Mr. Kammenos about his contact with the isovite? Have you approved this initiative? Did you know everything that was discussed in these answerable telephone conversations? Yes or no? I would point out that my fellow Members of the government do not seem to be disturbed by all of this or have a problem of democratic conscience. After all, they are the ones who have expressed public reservations or taken distances by name. The rest hide behind the anonymity of a parliamentary group that is primarily concerned with power, even at the expense of political cohesion and institutional tolerance, such as those of Mr Kammenos. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The authority, Mr. Tsipras, has ruined you. This is seen by your inability to leave your offices. It can be seen from how you avoid any contact with society.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u5	Quiet, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u6	But the worst thing, Mr Tsipras - because this is about you - is that your power has been politically corrupted so that you have acquired an immunity in deep anti-democratic practices. The second issue is relevant. It is about the overall pressure you exert on justice at every opportunity. It is something that is made public, without shame, without a sense of danger, with a protagonist always the Deputy Minister of Health. It is not just politically irresponsible, but it is also institutionally vulgar. Mr Tsipras, I understand that it is your political decision to cover Mr Polakis. Obviously, you think you have no choice. You know why. As far as his postings are concerned, they are so graphic that a well-preferred person could also deliver them to the heat. His attacks on justice, however, are a very serious and dangerous case and are not justified in any case. So, in order to make it clear, Mr Tsipras, you do not need to have a special identity, as you say, to know that the institutions are above faces. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] They do not, Mr Tsipras, overcome the institutions, but they exist to retain the powers of arbitrary action. That is what our Constitution says, of which - you are supposed - to be 'every word'.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u7	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u8	What I know is that public life has lost contact with democratic normality, with legality guarantees, with the rule of law. Like the economy, of course, has lost its contact with growth. But that's what we'll talk about. The third issue consists of the first two in this trilogy of political diversion and institutional diversion. For years, from this step, you have slandered your predecessors, our government, supposedly tolerated tax-raisers, smugglers, covering up their activity. You have not, as usual, missed any chance to dive into the mud and imply that we did so because we had interacting relations with them. On the contrary, you, coming to the government, said that you would bring the clearance, Mr. Tsipras, together with EUR 3 billion from suspect lists and the smuggling of cigarettes and fuels. That's how we came last week to put down a question to find out exactly what happened with the checks on the Lagard list, the Borgians list and the fuel smuggling. The figures, therefore, Mr Tsipras, are all said and cannot be called into question, because you have presented them. You said you would collect 3 billion in six months and collect less than 100 million in thirty months. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Especially for the Borgians list, which you flagged, leaving the necessary insinuations, you know, Mr. Tsipras, how much have you received? Let me tell you this: 137,000 euros. Good for you! Congratulations! In external transfers, the controls have substantially stopped. There's only been forty checks for the last year and a half. In 2013-2014, the amounts collected from fuel breaches were EUR 26 million. In the period 2015-2016, how much was it, Mr. Tsipras? I'll tell you: 8.8m euros. While for the first half of 2017, the shocking sum of 1,3 million euros has been collected! You are champions of taxing, but that is what is needed in the fight against tax evasion. That's what you are, Mr. Tsipras! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I am going to wait with interest for Mr Tsipras' denunciation on these three issues. I don't expect it to give a real answer. His works, however, already speak and I fear that he covers as a black cloud the Prime Minister's smiles and words. But one thing is certain, Mr Tsipras. We will safeguard the democratic acquis of our country and protect it from the attacks of populism, violence and diffuse lawlessness, and at some point you will answer for these behaviours. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We shall now proceed to the main theme of our debate. After the Eurogroup agreement of 15 June, the government once again rushed to see successes where they do not exist. I would remind you that you have done so before and after the closure of the first assessment. I would remind you that it was the assessment which brought us to the permanent cut-off, the superstition for nine nine years, and of course the insurance - the looting of Mr Katrugalos. "The difficult things have passed. A new era starts' the Prime Minister told us then. Since January 2015, the government has assured us every three and a little that the country has been turning a page. It's about to tear up the book! So let's remember together, Mr. Tsipras, since you want to talk with data, what were the goals you yourself set for the Greek economy last September? - in your speech at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition. So let's see them together, Mr. Tsipras. Hey, listen up. What were you talking about? "The first step of the next period..." you said in September last year, "...is that the second evaluation should be short-sightedly and positively closed." ‘The second step is to finalise the measures and ways of reducing the debt.’ "The third step is to introduce Greece into the European Central Bank's bond repo programme, which - you said - is a catalyst for reducing borrowing costs, restoring liquidity and removing capital restrictions and, of course, opening the way out to the markets." "The fourth step - you said then - is that the Greek economy should be able to record the high growth rates that everyone predicts for 2017." Fifth step, it was your goal, Mr Tsipras - you were still saying - to be able - I repeat that, Mr Tsipras, you said this in September last year - to deviate the amount of surpluses from 3.5%, which is the target in 2018, to 2.5% for 2019 and 2% for 2020. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Your words, Mr Tsipras, your goals and your own failure! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Why did you fail, Mr. Tsipras, all five targets? In comparison of reality - Tsipras score is five - zero! Not flattering for you and, unfortunately, not at all pleasant for the country, because the failure of your country pays it. So let's go look at all this a little more thoroughly. When did the second assessment have to be closed? You know it well and we have said it many times, Mr. Tsipras: February 2016. When did it close? In June 2017. Sixteen months late, despite the fact that you yourself said that the delay causes damage. Mr. Chakalato, what did you say six months ago? "If we arrive May - June, we are burned." Isn't that right? You weren't talking about the heat, I guess. You are late because you wanted to convince your members that you are supposedly negotiating. You put the needs of internal party management above the needs of the country. You said that there would be no new measure. You have just reiterated this in January 2017: ‘Not even EUR 1 additional measures’. I shall submit it for the second time in the Minutes and I shall submit it as many times as it takes to reveal the size of your political fraud. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It took 5.1 billion euros, which no one asked a year ago and a new memorandum with austerity for many years. Because you talked once again about the countermeasures, will you finally speak? May I remind you what exactly you all voted for forty-five days ago? Reduction of pensions, reduction of tax at EUR 6 000, reduction of special wages, abolition of allowances for vulnerable groups - you who are now wearing the socially sensitive staff - increase of insurance contributions for one and a half million free professionals. You have been up to the government promising 12 billion-dollar benefits and kept on it by signing an austerity measures of 14 billion. On the question of debt, which you had made a flag, you did not achieve, Mr Tsipras, anything essential, because there was no concrete commitment at all. The commitments of the November 2012 Eurogroup have been reiterated, and there are also some fine letters, which are of concern and which, of course, you have not mentioned. I would remind you, therefore, that the planned arrangements are under the authority of achieving objectives. The proposed expiry extensions concern only the second programme, not the first and third programmes. They are, in other words, 96 billion of the above, which is the total public debt. And for any prolongation of the grace period and repayment of loans, the expression 'from zero to 15 years' is used. Isn't that right, Mr. Chakaloto, that you're swinging your hand down? Which means there may not be prolongations or very small ones. Finally, there is no talk of interest locking, only of deferral and capitalisation of interest. You are trying as a great success to present the notorious growth clause, the linking up of debt relief measures to the level of growth. Only that one can read - you know - from the back. Connecting debt measures with growth rate means that if for some years we manage to achieve greater growth, debt relief measures will be suspended or reduced. So we'll pay more as a country. Therefore, the dividend from growth will not go to the Greeks but to the lenders.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u9	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u10	It's like you're telling a family she owes to a bank and makes huge sacrifices to pay her obligations that, when her finances go to improve, she'll pay a higher dose to the bank. A few days ago, at the ECONOMIST conference, Mr. Juliarakis said that you knew that no debt decisions would be taken from now. I make the relevant reference for the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And I ask, Mr Tsipras: did you not say here in the House that you would pass the package because you would take the debt? Didn't you officially support this to convince your MPs to vote for it? And now he confesses naively or cynically to a minister that you knew you wouldn't take it. How you treat your MPs is your issue. I also told you in the debate on the fourth memorandum. You have unjustly converted the debt as a delear. They would have voted for all the measures anyway. They did it for the parliamentary seat, not for the debt! You proved it!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u11	It's disgraceful! We're not unpaid, like you, where you are in the chair! Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u12	Do you want to compare the MPs your family has? We professional politicians?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u13	Please, be quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u14	And if necessary, you'll vote for more!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u15	We professional politicians?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u16	Please, be quiet! Mr. Femmelle, don't interrupt!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u17	Mr. President, will you impose the order? Mr. Femelle, don't get too upset. If necessary, you will vote for other measures to sit on the seat!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u18	Do you have the courage to compare ourselves in public? You're just professional politicians! That's all you know to do, the hand like that! Let's go work together. Professional politicians!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u19	Please, be quiet and don't react! Don't interrupt! Mr. Femelle, please calm down. That's not behaviour.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u20	Mr President, we have not interrupted once!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u21	Mr. Tragaki, tell us how many years you've been a MP! I don't understand! Tell us about it! What professional politicians are we talking about? Clearly speaking! We're professional MPs?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u22	After this understandable irritation, we should go to the third objective, Mr Tsipras, the inclusion in the Quantitative Relaxation Programme. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Mr President, I will expect you to impose the order!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u23	The order was imposed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u24	I can't see it, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u25	Mr President, we are offended!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u26	Mr. Balaura, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u27	Watch out, don't be so sensitive!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u28	Quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u29	So let's go, Mr. Tsipras, to the third objective you set, the inclusion in the Quantitative Relaxation programme. Last Monday Mr Draghi, unfortunately, ended this debate. And along with this debate, it ended both the expectations and any positive developments for the economy. The government now, which failed to do so, is trying to reduce its importance. Now it is not a'catalytic event' - you said, Mr Tsipras - to reduce borrowing costs, to restore liquidity, to remove capital restrictions and, of course, to pave the way out on the markets. If that were the case, Mr. Tsipras, why didn't you say so in the first place? Let's go to the fourth target you set, the high growth rates. Unfortunately, you have failed to do so too, a fact that you yourself have confessed. Because in the budget you were talking about a rate of growth of 2.7%, while in the medium term we were already down to 1.8%, domestic and international organisations are reviewing forecasts downwards, considering that we will move around 1.5%. Except that each unit less than GDP means less jobs, smaller incomes, a greater problem with insurance funds and, ultimately, with debt sustainability. In a three-year period, which, Mr Tsipras, all predictions, would be running at a growth rate of over 3%, you managed to put it back into recession and now you are struggling to get through to anemic growth. And we now reach the fifth objective, the one to which your failure is the most vulnerable: the issue of surpluses. You, Mr Tsipras, set the target of reducing surpluses from 3.5% to 2.5% for 2019 and 2% for 2020 and instead of extending 3.5% by 2022, even though Mr Tsipras himself - look out! - at the ECONOMIST conference last year said it was impossible to catch surpluses of 3.5% after 2018. Unless you did so consciously, Mr. Tsipras, knowing that in 2019 and 2020 you will not be government and wanted to drug the future of the country and the next government! You enclaved the country in huge surpluses of 3.5% for five years and in surpluses equal to or greater than 2% by 2060, that is, forty-three years. The future of the country is betrayed, Mr. Tsipras, by what you have done. And what did you get in return? A EUR 8.5 billion dose, which went where? All to meet the country's lending obligations, a very small percentage has been left for domestic purposes only. In any case, Mr Tsipras, on the basis of the objectives you have set, your failure is universal. You read the international balance once again, because it was certain that European political balances would not make it possible to make substantial decisions on the debt before the German elections. You have chosen consciously to link the completion of the second assessment to a debt solution, instead of doing the opposite, to complete the second assessment as soon as possible so that the economy can be fruited with at least one substantial development dividend and you have eaten your face. You were forced to accept all the additional measures requested by the IMF and you did not guarantee anything essential to the debt. Shall we make an account? More austerity, less growth, no quantitative relaxation, less dose and blurred debt. I fear that after 2015 you will regain the award of the best deal and in 2016 and 2017. You're proud that you've suffered and learned and that now, after thirty months of constant old age, things will get better. And you did have the courage - not to use the word 'thrassos' - to speak in this Chamber and to make a comparison of what was happening in the economy in 2014 and what is happening today. So let's go, Mr. Tsipras, see them: At the end of 2014, the country came out of the crisis, had positive growth rates. The third quarter of 2014 was the second highest...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u30	Be quiet, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u31	He had primary surpluses, but how did we achieve these primary surpluses, Mr. Tsipras? Reduction of taxes and repayment of dues. Because there are two ways to achieve primary surpluses: one is by taxing and the other is by resulting from growth. You chose the first, we chose the second, not like now when you're snooping everyone out. The debt then, Mr Tsipras, the IMF - and all the value his studies have - considered it viable. We have had a sustainability report, which we are now seeking. Of course, the country had a strong banking system without capital restrictions. It had come out twice on the markets successfully and agreed to get out of the memoranda, having secured a necessary safety net with the preventive credit line, which you very easily deceived and thought it would not be useful to you. We will, however, come back - I imagine - in this matter and in our second language. Today the funds that would finance this preventive support line have been lost. The growth potential is much smaller. And when the capital controls were imposed, you said "in a few weeks they will be gone". They completed the Capital Controls two years. You put the economy on the "wall" and the country has not just taken steps back, it has collapsed very low. And that is not just what we are talking about, the assessments of international organizations and institutions are saying. When you saw Mr. Regling, did he talk to you, Mr. Tsipras, about his assessment that the total damage to the economy since the first six months of 2015 has been EUR 100 billion? I repeat: EUR 100 billion, Mr Tsipras. The comparison of the forecasts of the international organisations in 2014 and today is revealing. I will present for the Minutes the forecasts of GDP progress, as was set at the time for the next four years. The loss at the end of 2018 will be EUR 29 billion. And that's not once. It is an annual loss which accompanies the country in the future, because we have now entered a lower development orbit. I'm tabling the relevant table for the minutes. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And this despite the fact, Mr Tsipras, that on your own day the external environment was much more favourable because of the development of the Eurozone, low oil prices, good times for tourism, due to turbulence in our wider region. Of course, as regards the course of the Greek debt in June 2014, the IMF estimated that in 2060 the debt would be at 60% of GDP. In February 2017, he said he would be at 275% of GDP. Why that difference? For two reasons: firstly, because you charged the numerator with a higher debt - a new EUR 86 billion memorandum - and, secondly, more importantly - because the long-term rate of growth was reduced from 1.9% to 1%. That is why our debt has become unsustainable, at least in the eyes of the International Monetary Fund. And, unfortunately, your policy has given some right to claim that the country does not have real long-term growth potential when the exact opposite happens. Ladies and gentlemen, the last three years have caused a very deep trauma to the Greek economy. It'll take many years of hard work to get it restored. The damage is not just about macroeconomic figures. It is also about how wealth is produced and distributed. It concerns all Greek women, all Greeks, especially the weakest economics. Increasing taxes makes people's lives worse. The Greeks no longer work for themselves and their families. They work for the state. A few days ago, an interesting survey of KIFM was published that says that Greeks are working for two days a year to cover tax and insurance obligations to the state. I am presenting this study. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Of the seventy - five days we were in 2014, we went to the two - three over your days. In other words, you removed from the pocket of the Greeks another month of work. The 'lukelets' are unfortunately multiplying. The evidence from the General Commercial Register doesn't lie. The ‘luketta’ increased in 2016 by 19% compared to 2015 and 2017 does not seem to reverse this trend. The wages also fall in the private sector. And if wages decrease and taxes increase, how can citizens stand? So don't ask yourself, gentlemen of the government majority, why do citizens think their lives have become worse? Because they're experiencing it. That's the answer. The media isn't your fault either. It's your policy. That is why the citizens, Mr Tsipras, are turning your backs on you, because none of you expect any more. Ladies and gentlemen, I have listened carefully to all the statements and speeches of the Prime Minister from the Eurogroup. Mr Tsipras talks about a change of page, as you did after the signing of the third memorandum, as he did in the first evaluation, as he did in the Eurogroup last December, as he did every three minutes. Mr. Tsipras talks about new international alliances. But the reality is, Mr Tsipras, that the negotiation has taken place once again without you. When others reached a compromise and solved their own differences, they told us: that's it. Take it. Mr. Tsipras invokes statements from foreign officials that we're going well. So what did you expect strangers to say? How will they justify their own participation in decisions too? And how will they protect the fragile climate for Greece on the markets? And yes, Mr Tsipras, the country is actually going better, but only in the sense that it has finally avoided destruction, a disaster that has been lurking at every turn for two and a half years. Mr. Tsipras also triumphs the possibility of a small test exit on the markets. He didn't do it today in his speech. He has, however, done so on other occasions. But he forgets what he said on March 15, 2014, when the country came out on the markets. He said here, with a nice interview: "They're about to get out on the markets." "As for purchases...", did you say, Mr. Tsipras "...who are they laughing at? It will be a stunned, theatrical exit, with a pre-agreed sale with a particular house, which will yield no indefinable profit to him." I'm filing it. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I'm not going to tell you, Mr. Tsipras, that you work for the Rochilds, as you would say, I'm sure you were. You've done it anyway. I wish we could get out on the markets - I tell you sincerely - and even with a framework of protection. Why do we, Mr Tsipras, call on investors and today come to invest in Greece! We are not persecuting them, as you have systematically done, by undermining and enforcing the efforts of the previous governments. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Mr. Tsipras talks about growth today, forgetting that this policy cannot be implemented by a party like SYRIZA, a party with strong strangles, with ideological obsession, with great managerial insufficiency, with slander ministers, with hybrid and arrogant political reason, and by silence that if there is still hope for a small growth, this is largely due to the cyclical nature of the economy, and beyond what SYRIZA was fighting: in investment in the regional airports, which you objected to, in investment such as the Greek one, which your officials still undermine, in the investment of 'COSCO', which, if I remember, Mr. Tsipras, in the road projects that we planned, we voted, we and you then voted against - so that we do not forget the reforms brought by the OECD tool, which is once again arranging two-stracket, and which you have been condemned by the two-s.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u32	Be quiet, please! Quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u33	Ladies and gentlemen, if the country stands up after three black years, this is largely due to the attitude of counter-population. Because thanks to the consent of the parties, which you have been slandering in this Chamber for years, the country at the last minute has avoided leaving the Eurozone in 2015. We have avoided derailment by the parties responsible. And thanks to the expectation that a next government will come, a government determined to keep Greece on the right path, there is today more opportunity to improve the economic climate. Because markets and investors know something they did not know in 2014, Mr Tsipras, when you slandered the country, that they do not have a risk to the next government and that is why it is of interest to invest. Make a comparison, how we are dealing with investment today - instead of laughing, Mr Tsipras, listen a little - and what legal certainty we offer investors, in relation to what you did in 2014, for which you have never apologized! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You understand after thirty months lost, I see the importance of investment. You might. For your colleagues, I'm not so sure. We, unlike you, have never slandered when you were opposition, neither have we invested in the disaster nor in the rupture. And that's why we call...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u34	Quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u35	Shame on you! In the summer of 2015, don't you remember?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u36	Aren't you embarrassed? In the summer of 2015, how did the country stay in the euro, gentlemen? With whose votes did he stay in the euro? Take care, then, and be more modest in your reactions! Shame on you! Do you forget the greatest political fraud? Please. Please. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We are therefore calling on investors and today to come to our country, because at some point, Mr Tsipras, sooner or later - I think you know it, and you will - and then hope will return and the country will unfold its growth potential. Society is now ready for a great effort of national reconstruction. It's already forming a new era. Priorities change, values and behaviours adapt. As far as consumption is concerned, we now recognise the value of investment and of entrepreneurship and of coercion in the customer state, people now recognise the importance of deserve and equal opportunities, and this change of attitude seeks political expression. Our first concern is to return trust at all levels, first of all, to the institutions and also to the Greeks. And we will succeed, because we have both the plan and the will. Citizens will see a government that tells the truth and that treats citizens as allies in a great national effort to reconstruct, not as objects of political deception. And international markets and the international factor will see a government determined to move forward, with reforms and privatizations. Greece can change and we know how this is done: First and most important, with a broad social and political alliance supporting a specific development plan. I would like to open a parable, Mr Tsipras, since you have again referred to a development plan. Since when did you have to submit the relevant development plan to Parliament under the third programme? If I'm not mistaken, from the beginning of 2016. We're still waiting for it. We will therefore address a call to all healthy political forces, to those who can and know, so that Greece can come out of the crisis, to call over and above the parties, and in this national effort to reconstruct must offer the best, regardless of ideological advances. Secondly, yes, Mr Tsipras, we want to change the mixture of economic policy, by reducing taxes and spending, with a smaller and better state, with a household in all sectors of the public sector. Thirdly, Greece can change with moves to stimulate liquidity through actions to return deposits, regulate red loans and quickly remove capital controls and, fourthly, with profound structural changes aimed at investment and new jobs, simplifying the licensing process for businesses, reducing bureaucratic burdens, by assessing public and, yes, by partnerships with the private sector, where necessary, by speeding up the administration of justice, by new spatial planning and by strengthening innovation and research. You also made reference to the investigation today. Well, are you not ashamed of the bill you have submitted on higher education, which actually dissolves the ability of universities to connect to the market and come and talk about research with this bill - an abortion, which you have tabled?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u37	What does it have to do with it?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u38	What does it have to do with it? Isn't this research done at universities?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u39	Do you have a picture of what has been done in the investigation?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u40	I understand, I understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u41	Six years and you've done the investigations, haven't you?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u42	All right, I understand, Mr Tsipras, how you understand the universities - you have been completely exposed - and how you understand the link between universities and the real market.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u43	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u44	In fact, Mr Tsipras, we have what you do not have. We have a policy for the economy and we have a vision for Greece, not for power and our mission is to retake...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u45	Quiet, please! Don't react!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u46	Our task is to regain the helms of a country that you are negotiating with the lenders, with humiliating and disastrous results, with only the aim of winning another semester in the government. If we start the changes that we need, if we know where we want to go, the country's position will automatically change. This will enable us to change international data too, to negotiate smaller surpluses and more financial space. Those who want to help us will be able to do so effectively. They will not intervene permanently to save the country from the worst, as is happening with you, because we will have proved first of all and first of all to ourselves that we ourselves want to help ourselves. But those who want and continue to question - secretly or clearly - the position of Greece in the Eurozone will be on the margin, because - badly lies - the country continues to be on a risk orbit while you are in power. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to close with this point: things are changing in Europe. Last year's populism has been interrupted by both the left and the right. The euro area is developing better than some expected. Greece must follow this wave of positive developments. I started my speech with the Prime Minister's words that set the negotiating targets. I'll close again with his own words. So, in 2011, in an interview with the then government of Papandreou, Mr. Tsipras said: 'Is it possible to say 'Ganjon in the chair by 2013', when people collapse and when in polls it gets 15%? Is there ever a government in Greece with 15% saying "Will I leave in two years?" You said it yourself, Mr. Tsipras! Go away, now you! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] For once, do what you have said, instead of coming back here again, weaving new lies, because in democracies there are no dead ends. Greece needs political change, but it needs more mental change. [[Vibrant and prolonged applause from the New Democracy Ward]] Greece needs a plan, but it still needs more people who are not afraid to take it forward. No more dark years, Mr. Tsipras! The future can no longer wait for you. I am presenting for the Minutes the document I mentioned to you. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr. Konstantinos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u47	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organised and operated, visitors to the Public Relations Office of the Presidency of the Republic. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Please, the President of the PASOK Parliamentary Group - DIMAR Mr Fotini Genomes has the floor. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Please, ladies and gentlemen, be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u48	Ladies and gentlemen, today's debate is of particular importance, because the decisions of the Eurogroup and the commitments already made by the government will affect the country for the next few years and for many decades. As regards, of course, the results of the Eurogroup, I must tell you that the Greek people have already come to its conclusion and these are not honourable to Mr Tsipras and his Government at all. Everyone's aware that you've put us in the neck. The worst of all is that, with this codification, we cannot achieve the goal, which is no more than the country's exit, definitively and safely, from the crisis. With this agreement and with this government, we do not go out to the clearing. It is not enough, however, that you have chained the country, but you are now trying to disorientate citizens once again. Listen: there is no room for other false promises and hopes. The Greek people are asking everyone today is honesty. He wants to know where the country is, what the prospects are, what really can be done about this place. I now come to the results, because we do not need deep-sighted analyses. It is enough to compare previous commitments and promises with what really happened. So what did Mr. Tsipras tell us in the past few months? I would remind you that he had set five very specific objectives. The first objective was that no new measures would be accepted. He said here that the evaluation would be closed without a single euro and, of course, that the logic of prerogatives is unacceptable. Secondly, he said that either there would be a solution to the debt or the International Monetary Fund, he would leave the programme. Thirdly, it said that it was the main objective of integration into the quantitative relaxation of the European Central Bank. Fourthly, it is necessary to shape the country's exit conditions from the memoranda. Fifthly, that you will demand specific additional resources for speeding up growth. Did any of this happen? Absolutely nothing! Zero to the clay! What did we get? We took the scheduled EUR 8.5 billion dose after eight months of suffering and delay. We paid this agreement very much, with new austerity measures and prerogatives of 5 billion euros, with new cuts for the main pensions, with a sharp reduction in tax, therefore the availability of wages and pensioners' incomes, with increased contributions to unreasonable heights mainly from next year to free professionals, who are actually strangled, with serious retreats to the issue of the reintroduction and extension of collective agreements - despite the specific commitments existing by Law 4024, in fact go to the bells - with the release of collective redundancies, with the abolition of benefits for weak social groups. This is one of the worst points, such as allowances - listen - to the poverty of unprotected children and new entrants on the labour market by the OAS. The first target, in short, went for a walk! The government has agreed exactly what Mr Siomple wanted, which, without doubt, expresses the most extreme conservative circles at the moment in Europe. Otherwise, remember what really happened? I'm starting with the debt. We will talk again - it says - in 2018, although necessary. We returned to the ambiguity of 2016. There was not a single step for the implementation of this decision that was in the 2012 Eurogroup, and, of course, even the dangerous obligation in 2021 was not met to give 18.5 billion euros for debt-solving compared with 5.5 billion euros we are now giving, thanks to the greater debt reduction that has ever been made internationally by our government. The worst thing is that there is still uncertainty and insecurity for the future. Of course, not only did the International Monetary Fund not leave, but it now obliges us to sign its own memorandum and, in a possible way, to finance it. Full failure and the second target. For quantitative relaxation the question remains, so high interest rates and a lack of liquidity on the market remain. Failed to the third objective. To get out of the memorials and comitology, what to say! In this fourth objective, failure is deafening. We were caught in constant memorials and boarding until 2060 -- austerity up to our grandchildren - with unbearable goals for high primary surpluses for many years, which you know very well that create suffocation conditions for businesses and Greek households. As for growth, we have simply stayed in the assurances of the future, without any mention of specific European resources, and the government is now confined to baptizing "Development Bank" the Greek Investment Fund. It's a failure here, too. Final score? Lost with five - zero! Now you come and pretend to be satisfied with them from above. You show not only that you do not have a sense of the explosive situation you create with your choices and tactics, but you think you can still mock the Greek people. As if the citizens didn't see, Mr. Tsipras, that you didn't just wear a tie, but that the others wore you the phase, because that's the truth. Two more unpleasant points. We left something on Mr. Regling's fund. Why? Due to delays in evaluation. We left some fourteen billion cheap money, which would help boost growth, liquidity in the market and job creation, money with which all the late public debts to businesses and citizens could be repaid, i.e. give a real breath to businesses and the market. The EUR 9.9 billion surplus could also be allocated to employment, to boost production and social cohesion, as we have proposed, with very specific measures. Instead, it was given for the repayment of debts. Finally, there is a major ethical issue. In 2012, the return of the profits of Greek bonds was autonomous with only the condition of the assessment. Not only are they referred to at the end of the programme and they are linked to the "if and if necessary" we said before, but the returns of 2015-2016 are also disappearing from the decision, Prime Minister. To say this simply, your government gives you the European bankers EUR 6 billion. In conclusion, the government gave it all and took nothing. The good, Mr Tsipras, unfortunately did not win. Greece has lost again, which failed to return to 2014, as some European players say. This is precisely the tragedy of Mr Tsipras that caused the crisis to relapse. He is struggling to bring things where he has received them but very simply has not done so far. Instead of dealing with the existence of the country's existing pathogens, it is not time to face the consequences of its political choices and decisions, which cost our economy at least 86 billion - 100 billion says Mr Regling - who charged the Greek people with 13 billion euros of austerity measures, which set the country back into recession, uncertainty, insecurity, which led to capital controls and, of course, despite what you are saying today, they did not allow the country to be substantially reduced. We've been through this, and we're repeating it. The Government of Tsipras - Kammenos costs a lot of money in this place, and that is why the condemnation of the Greek people comes and will be merciless and the sooner this becomes the best for the place. Ladies and gentlemen, now Mr. Tsipras is trying to find a new account. It will go ahead, it assures us, growth and Greece will come out on the market. No one believes it and, of course, analysts and markets are questioning it. But it is not a question of what Mr Tsipras says. The question is where, really, the country goes. The question is, how and when to get rid of the need for the memoranda. The question is, how are we really going to lead to growth and new jobs so that our children can come back? Unfortunately, as I said before, SYRIZA and ANEL have condemned the country to austerity and comitology. Let's see the reality. Development and extermination of taxation simply don't go hand in hand. That's what's happening now. The targets for primary surpluses of 3.5% of GDP by 2022 imply continuous and hard budgetary measures, i.e. undermining the prospect and leading to suffocating situations. Already the target for growth of 2.7% of GDP in 2017 is revised up to 1.6% and thereafter. Development and ideological obsessions do not go hand in hand, Prime Minister. It is your government's ministers who are preventing investment. They are consciously delaying the exploitation of national mineral wealth. They find obstacles to all investments. The messages you send to the investors are ultimately negative and, of course, when no progressive change moves forward when customer relations and the promotion of general government are lifted, we are not projected as a credible country that can be trusted. Worst of all, however, in the case of growth, is the prolongation of the outstanding debt, because it is a substantial suspensory factor, for the investment explosion that the place so badly needs at the moment. Finally, the departure of the deposits in 2015, the awkward procedures for resolving the issue of red loans, the failure - until now at least we are discussing - to integrate the country into the system of quantitative relaxation of the European Central Bank, what are they doing? They are intensified by the problem of liquidity and, of course, the financing of businesses by the banks. With this data we're just not going anywhere, and that's the tough truth. The risk of a new memorandum has not been eliminated and this will be a dramatic development and if the partners still use the money, which it seems, they will retain from the 2015 loan as a preventive credit line, there is a risk that it will be linked to new measures. Let the government pay particular attention to the issue of exiting the markets, because in the circumstances of uncertainty - if interest rates are much higher than those with which the country is lending today - then you understand very well that the basis for new adventures is being created at the same time. This is, unfortunately, the situation and the issue for us is how we deal with it. How do we ensure the future of our country and our children? We in this with boldness and responsibility have taken place. Look, ladies and gentlemen, The country urgently needs a change of policy and another government that can promote it and do so. I would like to open up a parenthesis here. You will not stop your rapid catastrophe with misery, constructed reports and attacks on your political opponents. This is a political disgrace. Attacks to the Prime Minister of Greece who put Greece in the Eurozone, Cyprus in the European Union and shielded the country, don't work. They're falling into the void. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] But dangerous, is the raw use of justice to serve your design. The rule of law is severely affected by your Government and its practices. Mr. Kammenos speaks with an isovit, and the government covers him fully. Good! In fact, the Minister responsible has also taken up a position. It must, however, answer a very simple question. Does it or does it not know the contents of the conversations that have been confessed and have not been challenged by anyone? This is not just a violation of prison rules but a misuse of power. If he doesn't know the contents of the conversations, then how does he cover him? It does not rush to invoke the confidentiality of conversations or the confidentiality of judicial investigation, because no matter what happens to them, the confidentiality also applies to him. This case will be overtaken by you. Apart from Mr Kammenos and the Minister in charge, he will also be persecuting the Prime Minister himself, who cannot keep a distance. Nothing will save you, neither will your persuasive organs, which are currently breaking through justice and the institutions known as the Right. Ladies and gentlemen, where we have arrived, the solution only goes through elections. The sooner the better. Anyone who does not want the country to enter a new vicious cycle of instability, deadlock and insecurity has a solution. To strengthen the Democratic Compact. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] The country finally needs national understanding of a national line of exit from the crisis and the memos. Only a strong government of broad popular support and a parliamentary majority can strengthen the country's credibility. To move forward to the necessary progressive reforms. To negotiate, at last, reliable with the partners and bring tangible results for both debt and primary surpluses. To create, above all, a development shock, because that is what the country needs now. Ensure the integration of Greek bonds into the European Central Bank's quantitative relaxation programme. To radically change the role and destination of the UFO by turning it into a fund for making substantial use of the national wealth in favour of the economy, job creation and financing social policies. Of course it will achieve the protection from auctioning of first home, which is released by your own decisions, especially for small and medium-sized households. We are, of course, excluded from this category of poor payers. Only such a government, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, can securely get the country out of the crisis. It is time to ensure for the country and the Greek people, what has been lacking in all previous years of the crisis, in understanding, was not done either in '09 or '12 or '15. This is the current obligation of the political system if it does not want to be inferior to the circumstances and demands of the citizens. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] You know very well that at the time the New Democracy and SYRIZA smuggled, split, weakened the national effort, when indignant squares, when in Zappeia and when in Thessaloniki. Let New Democracy not have the illusion that everything will be solved by magic at the place if they become Caliphs. No one has forgotten that the New Democracy government has received a public debt of about 180 billion and delivered it in 2009 to more than 300 billion, i.e. increased it by 46.2% of GDP. We're still waiting to hear a word of self-criticism. Still stubbornly deny, New Democracy and SYRIZA, to become an examination for the economy, to see what the real responsibilities of all political forces are and what must finally be changed in this place and never repeated. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Because today, of course, instead of an integrated programme of exit from the crisis, we hear the New Democracy speak only of promises to reduce taxation, and all the rest will be taken over and solved by the market itself. Very simply SYRIZA and New Democracy are today insisting on this little bipartite caricature and throwing water into the mill of polarization and division that poison the place. I hope, in fact, that Mr Tsipras and Mr Mitsotakis will understand their mistake in time, because that is the interest of the Greek people. We will insist and enforce the consultation with the contribution of the Greek people, with a radical change in political correlations, with the decisive strengthening of the Democratic Partnership with the "Greek Plan". We state as the basis of the 'Greek Plan' - since you admitted, Prime Minister, that for two and a half years you have not had a development strategy for the country - in order to reach agreement between the political forces in a programme agreement and a genuinely progressive sign. No more words and hollow promises. Do you know our position is constantly gaining ground in Greek society and, above all, you know where? In the new generation looking for real hope, and that is the most optimistic message, and that is what I want to close. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u49	Thank you very much. Mr Michaelakos, President of the People's Association Parliamentary Group - Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u50	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, before I begin today's speech on the Eurogroup's agreement of 15 June, I would like to denounce the great catastrophe that took place in my own country, Mani, from famine in the authorities, from famine in the fire-fighting forces, which made an official announcement that the fire was under control and then literally burned three villages. What Ibrahim could not manage to burn Mani was done by the Memorandum Governments to dismantle the state, with a typical example of this dissolution that in two Canadairs who went to tear down the fire in Mani, they were ordered to go to another area. For our part, we offer a warm support to our compatriots who were affected by the disaster and say that Greece will once be in existence, who will be able to protect our country. I would also like to mention what Mrs Gennamas said earlier in relation to former Prime Minister Simitis. We have all seen the characteristic photograph, where Mrs. Gennimata sat in the middle, to her right Mr. Simitis and to George Papandreou, George Papandreou, George Papandreou. It reminded us of the slogan: "PASOK is here, united, strong." So she fully accepts the responsibility of continuity, Mrs. Gennimata, and the Simitis is responsible, he is guilty, he is accountable. He is accountable for the great robbery of the Stock Exchange, for which justice has never been attributed and has ended up with the Greek people. He's accountable for putting our country in the euro zone with false evidence and leading us to the national disaster. He is accountable for the pharanonic works and the waste of the Olympic Games 2004, which also led our country to the destruction. As for Mr. Mitsotakis, triumphantly said that that summer of 2015, he supported the SYRIZA memorandum. As a result of this agreement on the SYRIZA Memorandum in August 2015, today's anti-popular and inhumane measures are also present. The Golden Dawn and then now and now and now and always will say no to the Memorandum, not to subjection, not to xenocracy. [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] He also said earlier that the Prime Minister, accusing the New Democracy of wanting to gather policemen in the Excavations Square and thus converting the Excavations region into a battlefield. Really, where does Mr. Tsipras live? He doesn't know that the district of Excavations has been a battlefield for years. Does he not know that every weekend the protected young people on the left do revolutionary gymnastics and burn citizens' properties? What are you doing for all this? Nothing. Mr Mitsotakis has also made a major dialogue - a statement on the Golden Dawn. By the method of a Bolshevik, Stalinist propaganda, you cut a phrase and left the other one aside. He said, referring to the Golden Dawn, that it is "both vulgar and so extreme, that it does not exist in the Greek people". What is vulgar, the Greek people know that very well. Judas is the masses, vulgarity is poverty, vulgarity is the policy of monuments and not the Golden Dawn. I would also like to give an answer in this debate. When New Democracy and PASOK were government, we were fighting the government of the Memorandum in this Chamber. At the end of 2014, we through the prison where we were driven by a political construction, dropped the Samara government. Then we were SYRIZA's partners. Now that we're oppositioning the SYRIZA government, we're partners of the New Democracy. This attitude reminds us of the phrase of Nikolaos Kazantzakis from the "Friends", where he refers to Pope Yannaro, who is finally executed, says: "He wants to be free. Kill him." Can you not understand that the Golden Dawn cannot be with either liberals and neoliberals or Marxists? Golden Dawn is a popular, nationalist movement, which fights the same, both opponents, who are essentially not opponents and cooperates, as they collaborated on August 14, 2015 with the SYRIZA Memorandum. But big national issues, unfortunately, remain unsolved. In our region a Turkish bow is spreading, an Islamic bow without any reaction. Austrian Minister of National Defence Hans Peter Doscochill in an interview with the newspaper “DIE WELT” said there is an Islamisation of the Balkans and that the special weight of the European Union in the Balkans is falling, while instead the influence of Turkey and Saudi Arabia is increasing. The newspaper "GUARDIAN" wrote about an indirect revival of the Ottoman Empire, stressing: "Turkey conquered the Balkans five centuries ago and more than its leaders create paths of invasion by more friendly and peaceful means. Only in recent years have two Turkish universities opened up in Sarajevo." This is a sad reality, in which, unfortunately, the state remains ignorant. At the same time as the Albanians control the state of Skopje, the Albanians who are subject to Turkey's interests completely, we are doing nothing. We don't say a word. The Austrian Minister sees it, the English newspaper 'GUARDIAN'. Not only are we worried about Ramadan here, but we also send wishes for Ramadan! Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a call from the Pan-Hellenic Federation of Cultural Associations of Macedonia, dated 22-6-2017, has come to the doors of all the Members of Parliament, and the subject is: 'Use of the term Macedonia'. I believe it is not only about the Members of the European Parliament who are concerned with Macedonia. It concerns all Greek MPs. So, in accordance with the resolution of the Panhellenic Federation of the Macedonian Associations in recent weeks, there has been a strong rumour. It was buried both by the newspapers and parties except for the Golden Dawn. I am going to read it self-sufficiently: "In the last few weeks there has been a strong rumour about the name that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs intends to propose. We were amazed to hear that according to the website of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Greece's official position is clear. Complex name by geographical indication before the word ‘Macedonia’. In her appeal, the Panhellenic Federation of Macedonia invites all MPs to respond within five days until Monday 26 June to whether it is in favour of the complex name "Macedonia". No one's responding. I answer on behalf of the Members of the Golden Dawn. We consider the use of the term 'Macedonia' to be a national betrayal to the name of Skopje. Make sure this doesn't pass. [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] This issue had also been dealt with by the House, when I had publicly announced the letter of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr Kotzias, who is currently in the process of negotiating the Cyprus problem. I really hope that no solution will be found, because the solutions that have been put on the table are really ethnobolic and lead to the Turkishisation of Cyprus. Mr Kotzias is on the right track and has our support. No such solution passes. Of course, if he goes through, he'll be accountable to history. So the name which the SYRIZA Government, according to reports, prefers - and I hope you will deny me - is 'Bardars Macedonia'. Did you think a lot about that thing? Have you thought about that name a lot? Don't you know the Bardaris arrives in Thessaloniki? The name "Macedonia of Bardaris" is a full reward for the alpha-corruption projects of Skopje. As we speak of the country's political life, a big issue has been raised about interventions in justice and the position of the Golden Dawn. Golden Dawn is the victim of these interventions in justice, and it is very regrettable that the government that is being cut for transparency does nothing about the prosecution that has been brought here by the prosecutor against former Prime Minister Antonis Samaras, for the sound document that calls for the protection of Golden Dawn MPs. Mr. Samaras, as you know, is a former Prime Minister and needs an examination. We only have seventeen Members. You therefore cover Mr Samaras and you do nothing, deafening what justice demands. Golden Dawn is the victim of a political process. This will prove and be vindicated. It is entitled by the Greek people, who has made it the third political power of the country, despite the war, despite hatred, despite the blockade of the junta of the media interface. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about the economic issue and the Eurogroup decision of 15 June. We are in the eighth year of the memorandum. Since the success story of Antonis Samaras we have now passed to Alexis Tsipras' success story. We are told that growth is coming for people with gold spoons, at the same time as millions of unemployed and people are sinking into impoverishment. We have reached the point, from the twenty-eight countries of the European Union poorer than we are, only Bulgaria. Romania's been through too. According to official figures from the Greek Statistical Service, Europe's negative capital is owned by Greece, with regard to the poverty which has deteriorated in the years of the crisis, and thus threatening 23.1% of the country's population last year. If the population living under social exclusion is also taken into account, then the rate is increasing to 35.7%. It is the second highest in Europe after that in Bulgaria. According to ELSTAT's data also, three million seven hundred and eighty-seven thousand Greeks are at risk of poverty and social exclusion and a 22.4% of the population lacks basic goods and services. This is the vulgarity of the New Democracy, PASOK and SYRIZA. Let's not talk about vulgarity. Poverty is poverty, tolerance and memorial. It is particularly important, however, that according to ELSTAT's data, the richest 20% in Europe had the lowest inequality with the poorest 20% of the population, which means that the rich have become richer and the poorest. This is the country's supposedly progressive government by SYRIZA. Let it finally stop invoking what it has received, because it has been running for two and a half years. Let us be content only with the triumphantology of Mr.Mitsotakis, previously, that he gave you the hand of help that fatal August 2015, where you turned the "OHI" of the Greek people into a humiliating "NAI" and led the country to a new memorandum, you who would culminate in the Memorandum. Since July 2015, when the government of SYRIZA - ANEL disregarded this expressed will of the Greek people through the referendum and dragged the country into a new memorandum, we arrived at the Eurogroup of June 15, 2017, where it literally signed the fairy tale of the relief of Greek debt. Here I want to highlight one thing. No one in the world talks about debt cuts in the world. They're talking about prolongation. What does it mean to prolong? That they will pay our children and the children of our children. I would remind you that the loans in the 1821s were paid off after a hundred and fifty years. A debt colony was in the past, and it continues to be on your days. It is therefore also justified by the Golden Dawn, which has spoken from the outset for a clear deception of the Greek people on the debt issue. It is particularly important, what the German Minister for Economic Affairs revealed, that you agreed from the Eurogroup of May on all this and simply for communications, you delayed telling them. But who is the treasure that you made from the Eurogroup on 15 June? You promised that Greece would have a primary surplus of 3.5% and up to 2060 primary surplus of 2%. In other words, you made an express commitment to the genocide of the Greek people. We must stress that this surplus is a drop - a drop of blood from the Greek people. Let's not talk about overdue private debts. However, I would like to ask you something simple and this question is rhetoric and is addressed to the Greek people, to whom I have the only chance - because the channels of our pimps have been excluded - to put it: Turkey is next to us, which makes monstrous equipment. How will we be able to face this particular threat? Even casus belli has been voted for its government for the expansion of territorial waters. How can we face this threat with these restrictions in our national economy? The Golden Dawn on this issue has a clear position. More cannons and less butter. We need powerful Armed Forces. [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] You'll get a dose from a sum of 8.5 billion and in no time at all you'll return it. However, I would like to make another point. A few months ago we had an attack on Maroussi from the protected by you young men. Because you must finally assume your responsibilities. In fact, they wrote slogans on our offices, such as "A big pit for Michaloliaco", "Country and shovel for Kasidiaris". Threats of death were clear. None of you condemned them. We also had assault at our party's headquarters with axes and hammers. Nobody convicted her. We also attacked our offices in Aspropyrgos, where three people were injured. On the issue of the attack on Aspropyrgos we had filed an extrajudicial to the Ministry of Public Order, to the Police Operations Directorate of the Directorate-General of Attica and to the Police Department of Aspropyrgos, where we said that our office will be hit and that there is a risk of a person being injured and we asked for all necessary measures to be taken to ensure the security of our offices in Aspropyrgos Attica on the date of 17 May 2017 and within one month this attack took place. That's what I'm asking for in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Secretary-General of the People's Association - Golden Dawn, Mr Nikolaos Michaloliakos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] In this attack we had this bloody face of a golden man, a young man who was beaten with hammer on his head. He didn't convict it from any party. As for media, hypocritical, enslaved, hostile to the Golden Dawn, directly taken by the police card, no one went to a hospital. Please, too, for the Minutes. Rejoice! [[At this point, the Secretary-General of the People's Association - Golden Dawn, Mr Nikolaos Michaloliakos, presents for the minutes the above photograph, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practice]] Here's a girl whose hand broke with a hammer. These are your companions, the superiors, who you defend every single one of them. And that's what I'm asking for in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Secretary-General of the People's Association - Golden Dawn, Mr Nikolaos Michaloliakos, presents for the minutes the above photograph, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practice]] Why don't you condemn them? But all right, it's your right not to condemn them. Because you do not have the political courage to say that you agree with these actions. You say: 'Yes we are communists and we are happy when nationalists, fascists, as you wish.' You're not saying that. Be quiet. You have made Greece the last soviet of Europe. Recent example is the resolution in the European Union on human rights, which are oppressed in Communist China, where you vetoed to avoid going through this resolution and how you could do otherwise, when your Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras himself in an interview with your once-in-a-day late "ELLEROTYPIA" had said that he admires Mao Tse Tsipras a great criminal. Stalin's famine died eight million in Ukraine. In China thirty and forty million died in the name of industrialisation of Bolshevik. veto for China, however, and the embargo against Russia fully agrees. A bloody face, a girl who breaks her hand with a hammer. This is political violence, it is red color, it is the historical fossils of Bolshevikism that are still living in Greece and as far as we are concerned, we are consistently struggling to do the motto: "Anarchists and Bolsheviks this land does not belong to you"! [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] Know this, this land belongs to the Greek people and the reunification of the Left through a historical extinction of Marxist, such as SYRIZA, may indeed be a farce and a parentheses of the political history of the country. If you have the courage where you go and talk to the lenders, wear the hammer, finally, show yourself. You can't convince us that you're democrats. We see exclusion, we see your warfare, you won't pass. The Golden Dawn will become stronger and stronger.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u51	I would ask those Members who were not before to come to the Chamber to speak to the President of the Communist Party Parliamentary Group, Dimitris Koutsoubas. Just a minute, until the silence is restored for those who leave. I call on the President of the Communist Party Parliamentary Group, Mr Dimitrios Koutsoubas, to step in.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u52	Ladies and gentlemen, unlike the big words of the government, what the last Eurogroup has done was to welcome and ratify the anti-grassroots measures of the second and fourth Memorandums, the largest package of measures as it describes, confirming that the SYRIZA - ANEL Government is the Government of dirty missions at the expense of the people. In fact, you are also congratulating your partners on this anti-grass work, and on the adoption of the ambitious package, and on the broadening of the tax base, namely the reduction of duty-free allowances and the reform of the pension system, that is to say, the abolition of pensions. With regard to alternatives, the troika themselves welcomes the legislation, which ensures previous reforms for collective bargaining, stressing that the new worse regime for collective redundancies is in line with the best practices of the European Union, while special reference is made to the implementation of OECD recommendations, to strengthen competition, facilitate investment and further liberalisation of professions, namely the cracking of small professionals. So the euphoria that the government is trying to create in a people already on their knees, bleeding because of the policy of all the governments to date, is also challenging and outrageous, because it really needs a great deal of courage - and of course the government has it - to say that, with the agreement of Eurogroup, it is becoming clear for the people. What did the workers and the populace get? Really, the primary surpluses agreed at 3.5% of GDP for 2018-2022 and 2% from 2023 to 2060, from where exactly will they be secured? Of course, from where they came from last year and this year. From the robbery of people's incomes from the savage cuts in wages, pensions, health expenditure, education, from the savage taxation of the people's layers from the new carrotization of duty-free, HISPIA, VAT, etc. Will the more than six hundred Memorandum Laws be abolished, or will the measures coming for the next period not be implemented? It has already started - you say - the third evaluation discussion, including the trade union law, that is to say the hit on the right to strike. You will do that in the name of the Left and progress. There will also be a request for new measures for any adjustment of the debt. Here we go, and we'll see. There are definitely some who have every reason to be satisfied. They are the business groups, they are the big capital. The commitments for an ambitious package of development actions from European funds that will provide a high rate of growth in the Greek economy, and for the acceptance of the government's permanent request for the establishment of a development bank, which will coordinate all kinds of investment projects, are precisely those of concern to them. We are talking about infrastructure, projects, hot money, which will go exclusively to capital in order to rekindle its profitability. The same is true of the Eurogroup's recommendations for implementing the OECD guidelines on facilitating authorisations for investment and the further liberalisation of professions, that is to say, the opening up - again, to be understood and consolidated even more - of a new level of profitability for the few, for large capital. These are at the heart of any plans within the framework of the power and economy of capital and, of course, not the working people's needs. These are also at the heart of any temporary compromises, which essentially concern the management of the huge government debts of other Member States of the European Union. At the same time, of course, they are trying to fool the people with "covered checks" to improve their lives in the years of any recovery, for which they are again called upon to endure unspeakable sacrifices. If something is worth keeping from the Eurogroup agreement, it is nothing more than the recent confirmation that the capitalist development which the SYRIZA - ANEL Government is struggling for, but also the other parties, not only is the end of the sacrifices of the Greek people, as the government says, but on the contrary marks the beginning of a new cycle of stress on the exploitation of workers, an anti-grass attack that lasts. In addition, the 'Zumi' of the recent intervention of BSE is in the reminder to the government and other parties that the confirmation of even those forecasts for short recovery will require that the implementation of the anti-grassroots measures which have been voted on so far and those that are needed in the future, with a view, of course, to privatizations, from which the capital expects to gain access to new areas of profitability. The other parties of counterpopulation are associates of the government and in the operation of manipulation, frustration, terrorisation and caging of the Greek people. Their agreement to the strategic objective of such a recovery means acceptance and agreement to all the unpopular prerequisites, despite the individual different views on the scale and pace of the storm - anyway - attack on the people. Ladies and gentlemen, on the debt issue, the Eurogroup decision does not in any way constitute a clear solution to its impairment. Within the next year the issue will be at the centre of the year, since 2018 will be the debate on the way and extent of the impairment. In addition, the term'successful completion of the programme' is translated into new anti-grassroots measures, which will, of course, be promoted in the next period. The agreement provides for large surpluses and strong financial supervision by 2060, without providing for a specific debt reduction mechanism at manageable levels. The Greek state debt will remain particularly high. Also, as the great problem, of course, with the excellent lending of the Member States of the European Union, is not solved, the Greek debt is being used as a field of pressure, because of the well-known inter-imperialist contradictions that exist, will continue. The decision finally includes contradictory, acrobatic formalities which can be exploited by everyone. It reflects yet another fragile compromise between Germany, France, Italy, the IMF, the United States of America, of course, and the other countries, as we have already said, behind the management of the Greek debt, is the management of the great overcompensation in the Member States of the European Union. The sure thing is that the people and their children will continue to pay for a debt, for which they are not to the least, nor have benefited from its growth. On the contrary, it was the financial management of all governments and, for the sake of business groups, the one that raised this debt. It was the taxation of large capital, which has declined gradually since the 1980s and continued throughout the 1990s. It was also possible to hide taxable incomes, tax immunity, the increase in government spending on financing monopolistic groups at the time the ax was axe to satisfy people's needs. All you who are talking about the great state, about the large state, do so only when you talk about schools, hospitals, other services, of course, social people's needs, on an even suppressive cover, which has been achieved in the context of the capitalist system. You do not, however, take advantage of public works contractors, of state loans or loans with state support, as well as of direct development grants to specific enterprises for the acquisition of over-debt businesses, for the provision of cheap goods services to large companies, for the State purchase of goods often at higher prices, for the huge costs of equipment projects related to NATO projects, but when Greece has since 1974, even after that, firmly holds one of the world's first positions in imports of arms systems, reaching a number of years in the first triad. Especially in 2007-2010, which includes, that is, the years of the crisis, it holds the fifth place on the list of largest arms importers among all countries in the world. Wasn't all the debt determinants? There, really, isn't there a big state? We say that the role of the urban state, as a state of few at the expense of many, is also confirmed. Members of the government, we have these days been following the argument in which you are trying to prove that the government with the Eurogroup agreement has, as you only say, achieved a better agreement, because it has countermeasures, a growth clause for debt repayment, a development bank and a clear commitment to Greece's support for its exit to the markets. Repeat again and again how the way out is gradually open to the markets and the final end of the memoranda and the comitology. Following the markets, which would dance pentozal, Mr Tsipras came to the point, to plead for a supreme judge of his policy on markets and investors, i.e. the interests of big capital. Your Government, Mr. Tsipras, uses the same narrative that the Government of New Democracy used in the spring of 2014. Mr Samaras, as Prime Minister at the time, was talking about getting out of the market, about returning to normality and the country's discharge from supervision and supervision. You don't even keep the pretexts anymore. You say the same things and exactly the same words. Indeed, Mr Tsipras, when you were asking the New Democracy and said: 'Why celebrate and want to celebrate with them' - these are exactly Mr Tsipras's words - as you can hear: 'with the recession going on, with the austerity policy being the austerity of the creditors' demands? A set-up exit on the markets what's it gonna do, really? Is one of the unemployed going to get a job? Will wage cuts and pensions be cancelled? Will the employment rights which have been abolished be restored? Will public health, public education, seized social security take steps forward? Will the tax bleed stop? Will the carpets stop?" All of this is Mr Tsipras's words, just as he said at the time. Really can you now look in the mirror, Mr. Tsipras, ask you, and repeat the exact same questions? These same questions remain today, except that you must now add your own anti-grass laws. Don't tell us that at the time you didn't know that you were delusional, because here we're not just talking about fraud. We are talking about the full adoption of the objectives, the aims of the monopoly capital and the leadership of the European Union. Indeed, Mr. Tsipras, in an interview in a Sunday newspaper, talks about the International Monetary Fund and its role in the Greek program, with the same words as Mr. Hardouvelis, the Minister of the New Democracy, spoke about the troika. He said, then, then, that the Minister of Finance, Mr. Hardouvelis, "Greece will continue to have the support of the European partners. They may not be passengers in the car but they will be safe in the back seat." Mr Tsipras said exactly the same about the role of the International Monetary Fund last week. He said: "The choice of no longer being in the passenger's seat in the Greek program is not even the end of the world, as long as it continues from the rear seat". That's what he said attributes. In fact, you don't even keep the pretexts. We don't blame you for copying the New Democracy. Let Mr. Mitsotakis do that. We simply tell the Greek people that you have the same political strategy, that your common vision is the European Union's strategy, the recovery of monopolistic, capitalist profits. And that is why it makes sense and next to use the same account to trap the people, finally use the same arguments. The fair development tales of capitalism, growth, that is, that will benefit you - to explain and you all know it very well - supposedly all the workers and the poor and the capitalists, the monopolistic groups, collapse on a daily basis in the places of work, in the big businesses where the healthy exploitation takes flesh and bone. Never and nowhere has the increase in profitability of the few ensured decent wages and labour, working rights, on the contrary. See the example of tourism, which you have even made your flag. What do the workers in the industry gain? What do people’s families, young children, who, this summer as well, can’t go on holiday? And as if all these workers, the people, in Rhodes don't even have water there to drink or take a bath, a shower when they're schooling for their work. All because large companies, private companies, compete for water management, while there is a ready dam, large, full of water, and remains unexploited. And then it's your bad picture of our tourism. You hypocrites and phenomenals are. The fair development tales collapsed when the government, which was supposed to fight for labour, finally voted to abolish Sunday's holiday and to extend commemorative arrangements for collective bargaining, the effective legitimisation of lock out, the release of collective redundancies, the eruption of trade union rights. The middle-century worker, next to the seal of PASOK and New Democracy, now has the stamp of SYRIZA. This middle-aged working population has laid the ground for investment and growth, which you are looking forward to and for which you are mocking that it will also be translated into new positions of decent and stable work. What exactly do you mean? Five months? The eight months? Can you claim to ensure stability for a few months? You mean stability? As for the two hundred and thirty thousand jobs we have heard and just before the Prime Minister from here at the Step, for new jobs that you have multiplely set up, they are jobs with truly cracked labour rights, where almost one out of two hires is by partial or rotating contracts. The mockery of opening up the way out of the comitology and the memoranda is revealed by the European Union itself, whose strategy is identical to the permanent comitology and the memoranda, for all its Member States, irrespective of whether they have high debts and deficits. In private debates and briefings, you say so yourself. From the Step of the Parliament or in front of the Greek people you do not admit them. A permanent committee is the Stability Pact, the European semesters, the balanced budgets, the obligations that apply to all Member States. The biggest final memorandum - we have said it for a long time since the authorities and confirmed it and we will say it again, we will not get tired of saying it - is the same capitalist development path. Yes, with this wooden, but the precise, accurate and substantiated placement. Ladies and gentlemen, it is equally revealing that the government's foreign policy, which is referred to as 'invasive', is also a new 'dogma'. The truth is that the SYRIZA - ANEL Government appears particularly active in the wider region, but only new is not its foreign policy. I am analyzing its doctrine: it is the defence, safeguard and expansion of the interests of the Greek ruling class, of course through its participation in NATO and the European Union. From this point of view, the moves and initiatives in the chess board of regional and international relations are an adaptation to the conditions, the environment and the opportunities for the interests of the Greek bourgeoisie by increasing competition between stronger imperialist centres and states, the wider region and the redeployment of forces within the Imperialist coalitions of the European Union and NATO. In these circumstances, the government seeks - says - to upgrade Greece's role, to create the country in a transit centre, in an energy hub, with the aim of attracting foreign capital and creating better conditions for recovery. This objective, however, only goes through Greece's deepest involvement in competition, planning and capitalism-driven people, and this is a conscious choice for both the previous and the current government. Negotiations on the deepening of military cooperation with the United States of America, the proclaiming of a more active role in the crisis between the Gulf countries, the taking of initiatives in the Balkans, the pursuit of a stronger military presence in the Central and Eastern Mediterranean, participation in tens of NATO missions outside the world are only some elements that demonstrate the determination here of this government to play its roots in the interests of foreign interests, foreigners, the monopolistic groups, dragging the people into dangerous shame. The same canvas involves the development of various regional partnerships, which we see, focusing on energy and security with partnerships between the Armed Forces, such as the tripartite Greece - Cyprus - Israel, supplemented by Egypt and Jordan, or the establishment of the OSCE in the Eastern Mediterranean. But what exactly does that mean to our people? On the one hand, it is called upon to pay off a debt, which is not its own, and to be sacrificed without the end of this notorious capitalist recovery, and on the other hand, to undisputedly accept the country's participation in naval designs, in an imperialist war with the risk of paying even more expensively to meet the objectives of the great and only capital, that is to say, as the protesters throughout Greece say during the previous period,'meat for the imperialists' cannons'. The rotten system, served by the government and other powers, has eaten its bread. This is evidenced by the war, the poverty that is expanding relatively and completely, the refugee, the exploitation that is growing in all the countries of the world, the competition that is exacerbating, the difficulties of the system to manage the contradictions that are growing. It's not strange when they talk about light in the tunnel, the capitalist crisis, that is, at the same time planning measures and memorials until 2100 and put it, condemning today and next generations in chamois and deprivation, and our children and our grandchildren and grandchildren. Ladies and gentlemen, as we have repeatedly stressed, Greece has indeed today been large, but untapped, productive potential. The growing interest in large international energy groups, for example, in the oldest oil systems studies in Greece, the existence of a modern vertically integrated energy group, such as ELPE, with research activities abroad, in Egypt, Libya, the Balkans underline this conclusion. We therefore do not lack the important energy sources or the potential of high technological and scientific expertise. The problem we are facing is political, so to understand some - because you have looked at me a little strange - what we meant before, that is exactly what I was saying to you. We do not lack these important sources of energy, nor do we lack the potential for scientific, technological expertise. The problem - we point out again - is political and the real question is not whether possible hydrocarbon stocks can generally and indefinitely be a lever for development, but even though under what conditions they will be used to meet the needs of society. In other words, the question 'Development for whom' arises again. Unfortunately, it is not difficult to answer who will certainly benefit from this development, from energy policy, followed by the current government, like the previous governments, of course. Of course, they will be the largest shareholders of domestic and foreign groups. That'll be the ones that'll be satisfied. However, for the workers, who, above all, must concern us all, the self-employed professionals, the popular strata, the negative consequences of government policy are obvious and cannot be overshadowed. At the same time, specific gas transmission infrastructures are being built and considered in the European Union and the Balkans, which are linked and directly to hard competition from the United States of America and Russia on energy and wider control of the region's markets. In fact, with a view to consolidating the geostrategic and energy interests of the bourgeoisie, the government assumes a role of signifier in NATO's aggressive plans, across the wider region. It contributes to the upgrading of the role of the Souda base, calls on NATO's armada to take care of the Aegean, strengthens this axis of economic military cooperation with Israel, raises the flag of geopolitical upgrading and plays with fire at a time when the risk of collapsing states, redeploying borders, warships and other conflicts, as the latest, of course, dangerous developments in Syria and in Cyprus, with the evolution and promotion of the diplomatic solution, the escalation of regional conflicts, such as recently between Saudi Arabia and Qatar, is shown. People's well-being, however, presupposes quite another different development path. Ladies and gentlemen, the rot of the present system, where production is organized solely on the basis of capitalist gain, is made more evident, if one puts next - next to - the miserable everyday life of unemployment, underemployment, poverty, insecurity and military interventions, with the possibilities that exist today. In other words, to satisfy the current popular needs, as defined by the launching of the productivity of human work and the progress made in science and technology. In order to satisfy modern expanded people's needs, another organisation of the economy is needed, by means of socialisation of the concentrated means of production, by central scientific design and by labour control. In other words, workers in alliance with the people's layers need to take power and economy into their hands. This power will be able to unilaterally delete the debt, free the country from all the imperialist organisations, by developing bilateral, multilateral relations with other states, on the basis of mutual benefit, in the interests of the people and not of a group dragon. The debate on this real way out needs to be opened in the next few months - from now on - even more intensively within workers in the other folk layers, especially in view of the developments that are marked by the decision of the last Eurogroup and the country's deepest involvement in imperialistic planning and warfare. Find the recovery of losses and the satisfaction of modern popular needs in the front of the labour and popular alliance and struggle within the movement. Strengthen the JRC that has all its powers to reconstruct the movement, establish a great social alliance, organize the fight against capital to overthrow its power. It is confirmed that the real hope for the working class, for the people, is not in the designs and bazaars of capitalists, but can only be born through the rupture, by the conflict with today's road. With a strong JRC, there will be a revitalization of the labour movement and a social alliance, with a proposal for a breakthrough from the crisis, for the benefit of the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Mr. Koutsuba. I call on Mr Kammenos, President of the Greek Parliamentary Group of Independents.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u54	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is the first time in post-multiple debate to be held at the level of party leaders, caused by the Opposition on the economy, at such an important moment for our country and the presence of the Vice-Population Members does not even go through one third of those present in the gallery. This shows, precisely, how the attempt of Officer Response politically collapsed over the years of governance has been based on destruction, by leading us to the deadlock in talks, by Greece to come out of Europe and to collapse the Greek economy, in order to come as saviours. And, of course, today - because it is so lucky that political things - are the first day that, if anyone opens up either Greek economic instrument, NAYTEMBORIC, or a foreign instrument, BLOOMBERG, they will see that interest rates are at the lowest point in all the seven years of the crisis. In other words, it is today, the day of the debate on the economy, that which is now evidenced by specific figures that the government's decision to proceed to a successful negotiation is now leading the economy to growth and leads the people to a new era. The fall of the Greek bonds and their assessment by Moody's, which upgrades the remuneration of the Greek government and the creditworthy of the banks, is a clear sign where the economy goes from now on. According to market figures, the yields of the ten-year Greek government bonds have declined even further, thus significantly reducing the difference in their interest rate from the corresponding German bonds below 5%. These positive developments for the Greek economy, initiated by the Eurogroup's decision and the number of supportive statements by the institutions' officials, bring Greece a breath before the markets. On the basis of the ‘BLOOMBERG’ figures, the above figures are given. According to the same figures, the yield of the ten-year Greek bonds reached 5.30%. To return to markets the dream that had been heard from abroad was to fall below 5%, and is considered the best time when performance falls to 4% to 4.49%. According to FINANCIAL TIMES, today the spread of Greek ten-year bonds is formed at 4,99% at noon, bringing Greece below the Greek side's target. ‘REUTERS’ pointed out that the return on German bonds is expected to record the highest weekly rise since December 2015. We take the same messages from 'ARCLAYS' entitled 'Light on the edge of the tunnel for the Eurozone'. These are the financial news and I put it to the House today, on the day we discuss the proposal of the Opposition, to meet here in the Greek Parliament, and to discuss the results of the Eurogroup. [[At this point the Minister of National Defence - President of the Independent Greeks Mr Panos Kammenos presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It was, therefore, natural for the Chief of Officerial Response to try to throw the ball into the platform and do it with any intelligence, intelligence that Mr. Mitsotakis has so far not used, but used the extreme right of the hybrids of Kostas Karamanlis, who entered the New Democracy after the leadership of Antonis Samaras. So far I myself have avoided having to respond to challenges against me, because I think that even when you talk to people who some time ago were the book vendors of anti-Semitism and neo-Nanazism in Greece. But since the Chief of Staff Response is mentioned, I will respond to all the points in which he tried to involve me. First of all, I consider my obligation as Minister of National Defence to answer what the Chief of Staff has dared to say today. "The Minister of National Defence," he says, "he does not respect the regulations and offend the Stratum." This is severely reproaching for a Minister of National Defence. And it is severely reproached, which we have heard some time ago from the mouth of the Vice President of the New Democracy, but we have heard it at the expense of the Chief of General Staff of National Defence, Admiral Mr Apostolakis. I would therefore like to ask, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, that this logic of the involvement of the Armed Forces and the institution of the Chief of HNDGS, but also of the institution of the Minister of National Defence, should be stopped here because it is a slip. I shall therefore, since it is now a request from the Chief of Staff Responsibility, the only regulation that exists and is in force for the flight through the Armed Forces. It is the technical manual of the UH-1H Huey pilot, which refers to 5-4: ‘Minimum required crew. The minimum crew required for the helicopter flight shall be a pilot whose position is right. Additional crew members on a case-by-case basis may be added in accordance with the applicable orders.’ This is the regulation that I respect and fall into position many times with the co-pilot. [[At this point, the Minister of National Defence - President of the Independent Greeks Mr Panos Kammenos presents for the record the above-mentioned regulation, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And I do not mention that I am the only one after Spiliotopoulos and colleague Brittos of PASOK in the House, who holds a licence and a degree, as well as medical and over two thousand hours of helicopter flight. And I say this because, with this very regulation, almost all national defence ministers flew to this day. In 1992, Prime Minister Constantine Mitsotakis flew from 110 Battle Wing with F-16 Block 30, in 1997, the Deputy Minister Dimitrios Apostolakis, in 2004, the Deputy Minister, Mr. Lambropoulos, with Mirage 2000, from 114 Battle Wing, in 2005, HHSH Spiliotopoulos F-4 in 337 Battle Wing, in 2007, Mr. Plakiotakis repeated on a flight F-16 Block 52 from the 115 Battle Wing, in 2008 Vangelis Meimarakis flying F-16 Block 52 from the 115 Battle Wing Wing. And, of course, the President of the New Democracy himself through his director, Mr Bekire, called last year for a call and begged to book him with a military aircraft - which we have done with great satisfaction - which, of course, has not done so far. I am tabling a relevant document on the Minutes. [[At this point the Minister of National Defence - President of the Independent Greeks Mr Panos Kammenos presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So this whole logic of trying to hurt the Minister of National Defence or the Chief of HNDGS for something that has happened repeatedly and is within military regulations and flight security, is something unprecedented and I would ask you to withdraw it forever. If you receive Mr Mitsotakis' second mention of the frequency of flights, I would like to give you a political response here. I will not go into the policy that the New Democracy presented on the relentless Miltiadis Evert, which was talking about "government of helicopters", but I will tell you that, yes, me and the Deputy Minister are using the instruments of the Air Force and the Air Force, because our choice is to be close to the Units, close to the military. We're going to the camps tonight, we're staying at the airports, we're staying on the ships, we're talking to the officers, the officers and the ghosts. We're next to them for the problems they're facing, and that's what we're going to do no matter how bothering you. [[Applause from the wings of ANEL and SYRIZA]] If you think that the role of the Minister of National Defence is to sit and accept only the Chiefs, not to listen to the problems of the army, not to engage the Armed Forces in social work, not to participate in natural disasters, that the role of the Minister of National Defence is to warn to extinguish the camps and to check if the boots are polished, such a role I don't have. I think it is my duty to be next to the Armed Forces Units, to listen to the officials of the Armed Forces and, of course, to respect the military regulations. So leave the Armed Forces out of political controversy. Mr Mitsotakis' second argument - which I did not really expect to hear as well - was the reference to my child, saying about the twitter that I posted, that 'The twitter child took this picture and we download it'. To my son, the only ones mentioned were Mr. Vorides, as a defense attorney for Mr. Kurtakis, when he came to defend him in court where my sixteen-year-old and fourteen-year-old son treated him as terrorists, friends of Polia Rupa, who used to hang out in Exarchia and set fires. And Mr. Kourtakis' lawyer, who was convicted of slandering in two years' imprisonment, was Mr. Vorides. So the New Democracy is acting together for children. And of course that's still going on. The day before yesterday, "GAYROS", the "famous" newspaper, said in a 7th port post - and certainly does not represent Olympiacos - that me and my family will start living our nightmares. Our nightmare! Threatly clear to the family and the children. That is the policy of the information pimps and those with whom the Qualified Opposition and the Chief himself are today - and I am very sorry! - Officer Opposition. Anything that happens to my family or to me will be morally engenders. You'll be morals! And I never expected Mr Mitsotakis to entangle such fascist practices in Parliament's Chamber, coming from a family who has been the victim of terrorism. The same has been experienced by Mr. Flampouraris, where they share every week under his house announcements, gather and burn his house twice and three times. Is that your policy? Is that the tactic of intimidation? Of course, we are moving to the third argument of the Chief of Officer's Response. He came to reinstate the subject of the dialogue with Isovitis Giannusakis. Since the opposition raises the flag of clearance for the most dirty drug case ever recorded in the country, after dealing with funny media reports, which it holds involved in the case, after adopting intimidation practices of the investigator and the prosecutor in order not to carry out the investigation, then I will tell you exactly the dialogue I had with twenty-one minutes. Some of you put your phones on writing twenty - one minute of the conversations. And I'll tell you what was the result of this conversation with the isovite, who after I was notified by journalist Triantafylopoulos that he wanted to speak, I talked to him. Giannousakis confirmed on the phones in twenty-one minutes and reiterated the four pages of the examination sheet as a witness himself mentioned on Thursday 23 July 2015 to the interrogator in relation to the involvement of Evangelos Marinakis in the case of “NOOR 1”. I will present them to the House, because they have come out on SKAI's 'Dice' show - in the evening it speaks against Marinakis, and this morning it speaks against us for Marinakis, this is another case - where the isovici itself repeats and proves the involvement in illegal oil smuggling by this businessman. He blames him for his involvement and for his knowledge of the case of "NOOR 1". I'm only reading a phrase for you. "Evangelos Marinakis from the first moment was aware of Kotsonis Aimiliou's shareholder involvement in "NOOR 1", i.e. when he became a partner of the Farros who bought the “NOOR 1” ship. Marinakis Evangelos personally mentioned this to me, who had shown interest in the course of his ship’s activities throughout his market to the time of my arrest.” Did I, gentlemen, obligate him in July 2015 to say that? I went and offered him some credit from the government to tell him that? In July 2015, there was a question of buying 'DOL' by Marinakis or by Ivan - what's his name - or by any third party? There was no even theme 'DOL'. Therefore, even the same argument supported by the New Democracy, namely that I intervened - on behalf of the Government - in order to influence the 'DOL' market, which would then have a political impact on us, collapses because these specific statements are from July 2015. These statements have been repeated to me by the isovite, in order to ask the Minister of Justice, as I am obliged, for the intervention of justice. And in the newspaper you're holding here in your hands, the isovite himself says he doesn't know him or want to meet Marinakis. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point the Minister of National Defence - President of the Independent Greeks Mr Panos Kammenos presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And what happened after the assurance I gave him and the D.A.'s visit? And here I want to tell you that the prosecutor doesn't know her, nor have I ever seen her in my life, nor have we ever talked. Never! Not even for a third case. I do not know Mrs Giva, who is currently under attack. So what was the result? The result was to give justice the isobit of his bank account to the Emirates and all its movements - of that account - to the competent judicial authorities. And in these documents he gave along with the statements, what is proven? First of all, that Vangelis Marinakis - whom I have nothing to do with, or personally, my brother being involved in drugs, I would denounce him, a Member of my family, was in a case that kills three hundred children with the syringe in his hand, I would denounce him - three years he has not told the competent authorities that he has worked with a isobite and sent him hundreds of thousands of dollars. Secondly, apart from Vangelis Marinakis, it appears that his lawyer, Evangelos Bajrataris, who is also a member of the Board of Directors. and secretary of the "CAPITAL" in New York - listed on the New York Stock Exchange, NASDAQ - he also put money on the isovite by an offshore company without being able to justify it. [[At this point the Minister of National Defence - President of the Independent Greeks Mr Panos Kammenos presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thirdly, it follows that the Director General of Vangelis Marinakis at the shipping company "CAPITAL", Nikos Synthrakis, was arrested in "Eleftherios Venizelos" because he illegally and undeclaredly brought 622,000 euros of cash into the country. And the isovite in an earlier statement states that these cash came to Greece in 2013 from oil smuggling in Emirates in collaboration with Vangelis Marinakis and the isovite with Aimilios Kotsonis and Nikos Synhronakis. Levering out, in other words, black money from criminal activities in the Emirates. Three years, therefore, from the arrest of the mineboat with this huge amount of drugs and heroin from the people of the Port Authority, there is evidence of this kind that should be investigated. And the Civic Opposition appears here, in the Greek Parliament, to protect someone for whom evidence is filed. It's unprecedented. But why does he protect him? It is natural that within the New Democracy there are people who live by Mr Marinakis. Mr. Vorides is his lawyer and is officially paid by him. Mr. Papadopoulos, the man of Alexia Bakoyannis, works and is paid by Mr. Marinakis. It's his "pistol", it gets them straight.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u55	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u56	Others are kindly paid to the "Caucas Club" and "Nammos" and receive support from the media. However, because of this support, will we reach the point in the Greek Parliament in supporting someone who may - can and may not - be involved in the possible death of three hundred thousand children? The children in Exarcheia, Peristeri, Glyfada, the islands, die with the syringes in their hand. And here we will come, because he has been misunderstood, and we will indict Kammenos who knows what is happening in the army and knows what Turkish heroin means and he knows that Turkey, by design, has been putting drugs into the army for years and has been killing cities wholeheartedly with Turkish heroin. And for a ship coming from Iran, with oil smuggling, with three tons of heroin, which one tonne is lost and goes through Serbia to Kosovo, while the circuit of terrorism is being accused of drug financing, shall I silence and not speak twenty-one minutes and not tell the Minister of Justice that will pass it on to the prosecutor and leave the prosecutor and the interrogator uncovered? And because I've seen some tough stuff going to prison, do you know what the criminal organization is, which if it turns out to be done by a group of journalists, publishers, politicians and third parties? It is this group which is set up in order to threaten interrogational officials and judges, as the investigation officer and the Leventis of Limnos, as are all Leaflets in Home Affairs who have made this case and the prosecutor, who I repeat that I do not know. That's hypocrisy. And it is hypocrisy at a time such as this used particularly to cover the work of the government. I am pleased to hear Mr Mitsotakis coming here today and say that he will support the various investments. What is investment support? Going out to foreign embassies and saying, "Don't come near Greece"? Is investment support when they go abroad and instead of opposition to the government, are they opposition to the country when they are trying to squash the country? Is that a responsible attitude, ladies and gentlemen? And here today from the speech of the Prime Minister and later from the speeches of the Finance Ministers and the Minister of Finance, it will be shown that this government, beyond having negotiated and achieved all the things that the Prime Minister has said, managed to change the country's image, the geopolitical image of the country. Greece is now the strong player in the Mediterranean, with considerable agreement with Israel, Jordan, Egypt, with a leading role in the Balkans. We are those who consider a pillar of stability. And this pillar of stability is the pillar that will, yes, support the next energy policy with the new pipelines and connect with the old pipelines to become Greece the hub energy centre. That is what the government and they are - if you like - the objectives of the government. I will not say any more about what I mentioned earlier. But I will reply to Mrs Gennimata, who has followed her former government partner. Besides, Mr. Venizelos went to her conference. When you are photographed in the middle of two Presidents, George Papandreou and Mr. Simitis, one day after the publication of the inquiry of the court, which for eleven years has been in the drawers, and which says that a transfer from the Bahamas to former Prime Minister was found to be his relative, cover or not? The same cover they were provided when in 1999, ladies and gentlemen, I went up to this Step and clashed with the mighty then, when the committee of inquiry called on Venizelos and Loverd that these accounts were telephone bills and that was their bank accounts. The same happened then with Papantoniou. And at the same time, they beat me from all sides. The band of "DOL", with the big pistols, Giorgos Papachristos and the rest, after they ate twenty-one suits - I was entitled to all twenty-one lawsuits - then they simply came to pay the price of my advertising and defamation. They had Mr Liakunakos then to make newspapers, 'THERDOS'. And Liaconakos is now being released with bracelets. Other journalists and politicians ate the war from other places, such as the late Aristotle or Bugatsu. All those who conflicted with those who are called "powerful". I shall conclude by saying, ladies and gentlemen, that they dared to speak of an offense. I ask in this Chamber: is Mr Mantuvalos a partner of the President of the New Democracy, Mr Mitsotakis, or not?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u57	What partner?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u58	Is Mr Mantuvalos the main defendant in the trial of the wrongdoing, for which there is a complete overthrow to date? Second question: When after the arrest of "NOOR 1" Mr Athanasios came here and voted on 8-7-2014 as Minister of Justice of L.4274, which caused a saliva for the liberation of drug dealers, see what we said in the Minutes at the time. And they dare talk to those who have come to misconduct in misery to speak - official intercept from the NSA - Vangelis Marinakis with a lawyer and say to him: “Georgelis is Mytilinis. Environment, Charalambos Athanasios. Don't worry about the decision." So who is involved in the wrongdoing, ladies and gentlemen? Athanasios with Birbo and Asmakopoulou or us? And what are the results, ladies and gentlemen, of our involvement? The results are that there is evidence that justice will achieve its result. Ladies and gentlemen, I have talks with fellow Members in my hands. He's at the disposal of colleagues. I will not put it out in the Minutes, because although they are official records of the NCA, they are talks of fellow Members of the New Democracy with the heads of the criminal organisation. And there are talks of no twenty minutes, but hours, giving meetings, talking about who was backed up by who.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u59	Who do you mean by that?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u60	I mean Mrs Karamanlis and Mr Arvanitopoulos, Mr. Voridis! There are talks with former Minister, who is intervening to acquit an acquitted prisoner in Korydall. I didn't grow up in the arms of either Mamania or Hercules Siphakaki, to explain. And if we move forward, let's open the pounds of history to see what's going on. The positive message is that the economy is getting ahead and you're staying in the past. And with the main lever of tourism at the moment, we are at the point of increasing to all the tourist regions, reaching a full capacity of 90-95%, having high completeness and an increase for the entire Eastern Mediterranean, increasing revenues by 2.4% and a record of international arrivals, increasing taxi turnover, completeness, positive balance of new full-time jobs with more than 30 000 new jobs, seven out of ten coming from tourism. Ladies and gentlemen, whatever we do, this government may not be from a common ideological source, but one respects the other's red lines and is based on an agreement that never breaks: in that we have no forgotten skeletons in the wardrobes and whoever is involved, it will pay! Our relatives don't have vapours, like some of them, with shipowners of the Marinaki type!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u61	Mr Voridis, you have the floor for two minutes, because I would ask you to refer only to the personal matter and not to the whole issue, which has already been opened by the Chief of Staff, who then has a dentistry. Because you obviously raised a personal issue, as a lawyer, please confine yourself to it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u62	Mr President, I would like you to allow me to explain how I understand the personal issue, because that is what goes on with the answer I have to give. First of all, ladies and gentlemen, I am proud of the work I do, and I think the Members must work. I am proud of my legal office and the legal office only inconsistently, Mr President and Minister, they do not understand the distinction between the lawyer and the case that is defended. Anyone who does not understand that, I beg your pardon, has no contact with what our legal culture is.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u63	You're very welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u64	Secondly, I have never been Vangelis Marinakis' lawyer. I haven't been disrespected by him. I'm telling you about this, so we don't keep going. Mr. Kurtakis, of course, I've handled and handled his affairs. But I suppose you don't make the blow, which you usually do, confuse the faces and the integrity between things. But the third, Mr President, which I consider to be very important, is that what Mr Kammens said here, not much or much, is that there are interests within the New Democracy that dictate its position on this matter. And obviously, within the interests he has suffered, indirectly but clearly, my relationship. I would like to clarify a few things: When a Minister speaks with a isobite twelve times and takes four times the Minister phone the isovite and speaks twenty-one minute about a drug case, does he not speak of anti-crime policies, does he not speak of the fact that his government, with its votes, has brought legislation that made it easier to release drug dealers, does he not talk about Parliament's institutional issues, they speak of a particular case, when this convicted person sends a message to his phone and says to him: 'It is late? Is he coming?' And after a while, at 11:30 in the evening, a prosecutor appears, except for her region, to go to testify to this isovite, after apparently confirming that Mr. Kammenos is going...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u65	You couldn't even be a Marinakis' lawyer...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u66	Let go of it! Answer them and leave the law! These are published and undoubted, not isovit words, they are messages, ladies and gentlemen! And when conversations are then published...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u67	Quiet, please! And you, Mr. Voridis, are done!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u68	I shall conclude, Mr President. But, you know, we can't now create impressions here. Listen, ladies and gentlemen, before you go any further: why are you taking a stand on an issue in which I think everyone should be extremely careful? Because these...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u69	Are you getting paid?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u70	Don't talk, sir...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u71	Are you getting paid?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u72	Mr President, Mr Kammene, you will have the floor after you have requested it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u73	When, ladies and gentlemen, talks of an interrogative official on the Internet are published and posted, where he can hear - the official, the investigator, the porter - telling the convicted 'but Marinakis is innocent' and the answer 'I don't care, he must be condemned'. Why? Why is it to be condemned? Because this will be linked to Mitsotakis and Tsipras will be in power ten years.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u74	How does that connect?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u75	I ask colleagues very simple: has Mr Kammenos responded to this? Does this inquisitive employee know him? Has he talked to him? That prosecutor told us he didn't know her. Can she explain how the message is linked to her presence? He can explain to us what use they had... I, Mr. Kammenos, accept your interest. So one of them comes and says, "Mr. Minister, you said to me the Triantafylopoulos..."...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u76	Mr. Voridis, you're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u77	I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u78	You're done!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u79	So I'd like to accept that. Can you explain to us convincingly, instead of coming to blame the whole of the Officer's opposition and say he's interested in this scandalous case and embarrass all the colleagues who may have - for political reasons obviously - and the good will to support you? You're apologizing, sir, in this case, you're not a prosecutor!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u80	What about me? What do you think?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u81	Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u82	I have nothing to say: a man who gets paid to do this job and admits it publicly, let him do his job in court. This is the Greek Parliament! This is where we'll talk politically.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u83	Did we bring her here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u84	Please, Mr. Voridis, don't interrupt! Today in the conversation...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u85	For this criminal case, if you will, put forward a motion of censure and a motion of censure! Now! Now testify!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u86	Leave it to us!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u87	Leave the threats! Submit motion of censure or submit a motion of censure! Check it out! Are you threatening the papers? Let go, Mr. Voridis, we don't all raise threats! If you have the men, now put down a motion of censure! Put it down now!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u88	Thank you. Mr Leventis, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u89	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u90	Mr. Polakis, you don't have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u91	Mr President, I would like to ask a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u92	A question? What do you mean, Mr. Polakis?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u93	I was informed that we cannot take the personal floor today, and that is why I did not speak before in the reports made by the President of the New Democracy in my name. I was informed that in today's procedure we cannot take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u94	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u95	Yeah, but since you gave Mr. Voridis the floor... I didn't ask for the floor before, because that's what I knew. I do not think, therefore, that what Mr Kammenos said to Mr Voridis is so much more offensive than the expression 'institutionally vulgar' used by the President of the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u96	All right, you want the floor, Mr. Polakis, on personal grounds? Is that what you're asking?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u97	Yeah, that's exactly what I'm asking. I didn't ask him before, because you told me I couldn't take the floor on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u98	Okay, don't repeat it. Do you think you should take the floor because Mr. Mitsotakis referred to you?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u99	Clearly, I just knew we couldn't take the floor today, so I didn't ask him, but since you gave him up, I'm asking him.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u100	I gave him the floor, because he specifically referred to an issue which was a step in the way of the procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u101	He specifically referred to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u102	If you consider it necessary, you will take the floor. When do you want to take the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u103	Whenever you give him to me, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u104	You'll talk after the prototypes. Mr. Leventis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u105	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, sometimes I do not understand the purpose of this Parliament. It is assumed that the purpose of its operation is to solve the problems of the country and the people. Personal differences and vendettas are being resolved here. That's what I understand. The House is being dealt with as a forum for the resolution of personal disputes. I sat down and watched what the Prime Minister said. Did he explain why he put Greece for five years with 3.5% and 43 years with 2%? Find me another state of the earth, which has been chained by this way, for five years, 3.5% surplus and forty-three years with 2% surplus. If you find me another state, let it not be for forty-three years, let it be for ten to 2% and one to 3.5%, it is Greece second. So the country's chained. The claim and the excuse is that there was no other solution, that the contract had to be signed. And why was the signing of this contract delayed? Because there was a negotiation. So, why was the negotiation going on? How long are we going to chain the country? Will anyone live from this Chamber in 2060, to free the country? I don't know if anyone will live from this country or if our children will live the same. I therefore think that the Prime Minister has not explained why he signed the signatures he has signed and why he has forced the 50 three of the majority to say 'yes' to this agreement. The dilemma was always so we wouldn't go to Grexit. You guys used to go out on the channels and say we don't blackmail, they're loan sharks, that Shoeble is a prick and blackmails us. So in order not to take us to Grexit, we have signed, I repeat, over five years of surpluses of 3.5% and forty-three years to 2%. The God of Greece hopefully will give a serious government in the near future, which will also renegotiate these figures - five and forty-three - will change them radically, because if these figures are left, I repeat that none of us will live to get out of the memorials. The other thing that the Prime Minister says is that we can get out on the market. Is that what it looks like? Who lets a three-year-old kid get off the street when the road is long traffic? Won't he press a car? Samaras did the same aftermath, let me say it like that. He took Greece out on the markets to show that we're on the market. And we paid for it. While we could borrow with 1.25%, we borrowed 5%. Do you want to do the same thing or do you want the kid to go out on the Congregation Avenue and pass it in the hope that no car will be found to cut it off? The markets, when you don't have the financial data to get out, and when you're in danger of begging and begging, are the hope of the collapser. So, do you think if we went out to the markets and took four billion to 5%, would Mr. Tsipras convince us that he solved the country's financial problems? Does this alone constitute a certificate of validity of the country and of the economy? I hope you have economists both in SYRIZA and in the New Democracy. You should know that this has nothing to do with it. Samaras did the project, and nothing worked. Mr. Samaras collapsed. So this agreement is an agreement of shame. And you two hundred and fifty three must see it as such, if you are honest and honest with yourself and contribute directly to its correction. Please warmly. In your areas you're going, they tell you that the deal is beautiful and you're welcome to do so? Apparently you'll answer them that you had no other solution. But Samaras, when he cut off pensions, said he had no other solution. And Venizelos, when he came and brought HISBIA, apparently said there was no other solution. How long can a country live under such dilemmas? How long can there be a country? And when you claimed power on January 25, 2015, did you claim it in the sense that you will do everything you can? No, then you said you were tearing, that you would come into conflict, that you would change Europe. In Greece what have you changed to change Europe? To change Europe, you have to change. Has something changed in this place? The professions have been opened? No profession has been opened. We have found with the assessment in the public sector who are slow-wage and who are not in the municipalities and the CECO? Oh, no. Is there a rationalization in the pensions? Three hundred and thirty thousand people get three main pensions! A million two hundred thousand get two main pensions! You haven't done anything. You wanted to change Europe, and you did not dare to see your country face to face, not to change it, but in any case to study the problem. He's misunderstood a piece of society about my consensus of opinion. Some people think that I want consensus and a government of technocrats to get in. Honestly, it's all I don't want. And if that government is to become, I declare in the Chamber that the Centro Association is not going to enter. And in this House, the Centroon Union will not enter any government. I also make this statement calm down because people write that I can support Mr. Tsipras. I am therefore making a clear statement before the House. In this House, I am not going to support any government, not even Jesus Christ! Calm down. I'll explain why. Since 2009, the country has had a cancer. Giorgos Papandreou is ruled initially and everyone else called him "Germancholia", "supervisor", etc. Man and want three things to do, which he proved to be not serious enough to do, anyway, he did back too. Say he wanted something good to do, he went back. Samaras came again, and SYRIZA was a traitor, and the man came back. Does it tell you where to mess with snakes? In the pit of the serpents if I fall, I'm done. You're here now, and with about the same reasoning you're told by the rest of you. Isn't that right? The way they fight you shows that they want to overthrow you and ask for elections. Do you think that governments of this kind, undermining half the House - which are not exactly half - are the ones to solve the economic problem of the country? In Portugal, let's say, who dared, did all five parties go to negotiation together? They've gone. In Cyprus, half of these things happened to the other half of the traitors? Only Greece has this curse. He's got an empire. In other words, some must claim power and others must undermine them. This is the political system in Greece. From anguish I, in order to change this, recommended this great government. Because the people ask: "When, Mr. Leventis, will we get out of the memoranda?" What can I say to the people? What can I say to him? Can I ask Mr. Tsipras to trust us that we're leaving next year? Eat the wood, too? Why? What's my fault? Understand? What was it when Samaras didn't get the country out of the memoirs? Do you not realize that for two to three years we had to stop these settlements, these ones and give a picture of a serious country? Was it so bad for three years for this political system to show an image of political stability outwards to achieve the best of the agreement that we could achieve, the best of the negotiation we could do? Is that so bad or difficult to understand? Is power so sweet? What's the power that, when you get it, you can't lose it, don't you have to lose it? I told Mr. Tsipras, who ruled: "Mr. Tsipras, you rule, you have the responsibility. Go to the President of the Republic, call Mr. Mitsotakis. Call them and discuss a two-three-year government to solve the problems." Mr Tsipras tells me:'Mr Mitsotakis does not want it.' "But", I say, "to prove that Mr. Mitsotakis doesn't want it, do it. You go, so Mitsotakis has all the responsibility after. What did you bring the simple analogue ten months ago?’ Just proportional what it meant to me? It didn't mean to vote for a SYRIZA bill. To me, the simple analogue meant that the country should return and go to government coalitions. That's what it meant. Why doesn't Mr. Tsipras dare? What's he gonna lose? A year of power? But it will remain in history as the man who sacrificed a length of government service to reach a consensus. I think Mr Mitsotakis would also be required, although he has a demographic rise, to help, because he too cannot love the country, he cannot want to solve the country's problems. Samaras, let's say, who did it, also had a popular rise, Mr. Mitsotakis. But he did government. He didn't bring him or his party. But he did it in 2011. What's different from Mr. Samaras? Partial patriotism is what distinguishes you and prevents you? You're even Samara's younger! Understand what I mean. I mean that for two to three years at least, until the country is serious, it must become such a government. You're smiling. It's okay. You who smile will be summoned to solve the problems and collapse within five months, and then everyone else will laugh at you. You should know that thing. Do not smile when a central voice is spoken, because in this place we have seen the self-responsibility that has led the country: in rumbles, in obedience and in bankruptcy. How did the country get bankrupt? From allied governments or from self-powered ones? Tell me: What has the country gone bankrupt? So, what if Mr. Samaras comes by tomorrow morning and makes a government with Mrs. Gennamas? Because I don't see any other party willing to help. So I see, unless you're finally holding elections again, you're bringing in new elections or hoping for self-reliance? Don't have any dreams like that. I think I'm serious. So I believe that, if you come to power, again investments will not bring about, the government you are making will be a hundred and fifty-three, once again all you say about tax reductions will be fairy tales. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS VARENTIS takes over]] What are you better than Mr. Samaras? Why didn't Mr. Samaras do all this? I was in Corinth, and it was a Member of your Parliament, Mr Hatzidakis, who stood up and said, neither little - nor much - that if you go out, it will be a heaven on earth, all will be solved automatically. Then they gave me the floor and I said, "I only have one question. Why didn't you do it when you were a government? Who was blocking you?’ So this thing you say every time, that this time you will save the country, that what you have not done so many times you will now manage, this fairy tale must be stopped, because it is the feeder of bipartism. So I, gentlemen of SYRIZA, thought that when the bill came for simple analogues, it was accompanied by a true will to go to consent. I didn't think you saw it as a bill between the five hundred that you were going to bring to your term of office. I thought that's inside you. So I came up here to support it and all the right-wing newspapers went out and told me I had a flirt with SYRIZA. No flirts. I just had the words of Alexander Papanastassiou in my heart saying that a country without a mere analogue is not a democratic country. Alexander Papanastasios attempted the Constitution of 1926 to put the simple analogue. A century has passed and many in this Chamber still do not believe in the simple analogue. We're still immature as a political system. I want to say a few words about PASOK, which was gathered in a room to hold a conference. It was Simitis, George Papandreou and all of them. So, when the courtroom applauded Giorgakis Papandreou, what did they applaud? Did you applaud the memorial, Kastelorizo? What did you applaud? Did you applaud the one million assignments made by PASOK over the years? Did you applaud the EUR 210 million loan it owes or the vote you gave in favour of the enhanced loan? If Mr. Mitsotakis makes a triumph, he will owe it to you, gentlemen of PASOK. Who else will he owe it to? So, what did you get together to do at the conference? Change your signal? [[Noise - protests from the Wing of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR]] I do not accept a vacation, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u106	You don't have the floor, ladies and gentlemen. Go on, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u107	You have seen what is happening in the Chamber, Mr President. Gentlemen can't stand it. They're not patient. So all that happened was a signal change. It was tricolor and became quadrucolor, i.e. four colors. Understand? [[Laughers in the Chamber]] They're ashamed of the sun. They're ashamed to defend the sun and refuse him too. But on the other hand, they say that at Andrew Papandreou were the best times. Of course, it was the best times, because on Monday you were going to PASOK and Tuesday to PPC to get to work. Of course, these were the best times, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u108	You refer to the party that changed Greece, Mr President. A little respect, if nothing else.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u109	All right, all right. You did change Greece, but backwards. There's been a big change.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u110	Enough!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u111	Quiet, Mr. Constantopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u112	I would like to say two words for contractors as well. The government's getting ready... [[Noise from the Wing of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR]] Don't worry. You don't want PASOK to grow up? I promise you he'll grow up. With Giorgakis and Simitis, he'll grow up, be sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u113	You bet you do, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u114	I wanted to say about the Constitution. The government is having some debates on the Constitution and says that experts are sending their views and a mixer there takes citizens' views and will bring forward proposals. We as a party have not accepted any of your proposals, to say our opinion. In the Central Association, there has not been a paper that says: 'You know, on this pretext, say your views'. So you will show proposals from your own people, obviously, who give opinions and say: 'This is the result. Come on, let's vote.' None of the changes you intend to make will be accepted by us, because consultation means first of all information. What I have seen and which I do not like at all is that the third vote on the President of Parliament will take place in a referendum. This referendum, between the first two in this Chamber, do you know what it means? We'll divide the people. Because, you know, a referendum means that there should be elections, that there should be a pre-election period and that half of the people are in favour of one and the other half in favour of the other. But the President of the Republic will have half the people. It's a serious matter. You shouldn't have called this off. What you could do in the third ballot is to put down in sixty the number of Members to be present for the election of President. I understand that in order to avoid frequent elections. But this thing, going down to the people between the first two of those who were candidates from the parties, comes to the ridiculous and divides the people. We're going to the contractor's theme. You say that there are sixty thousand contractors to be appointed as permanent. The Constitution, the General Accounting Office of the State, all of them have said it is unconstitutional. This amendment that you voted on days ago, what kind of amendment is it? Is it an amendment that you think is within the limits of the Constitution, or do you like to vote for amendments that are being dismantled? You voted on the permits. They took it back. You voted for the checks. They took it back. The amendment now to the contractors. In other words, the parties were appointed for years and now the House is coming to say good. As far as the President of the Republic is concerned, you should be aware that it is a signal to him that he has perpetuated the contractors for the days of New Democracy. I was against it. And Mr. Mitsotakis, who did not vote for him on the day when he was elected President, was right, because Mr. Mitsotakis lived close to the permanentisation of contractors. I don't want to scratch wounds now, to mention it, but it was a moral burden. He was in a ministry and lived close to what Mr. Pavlopoulou did. Mr. Pavlopoulou performs his duties very well, but at that time he was the Minister of the New Democracy and the contractors were permanently ordered. These are contrary to the spirit and the letter of the Constitution. Now, if the Chamber, in the voting operation, sacrifices constitutions and laws, that is another matter. However, we have no right today, in 2017, to perpetuate as much as possible. Do you know why I'm saying that? Because in public there is the following, we have an excess, a different deficit. So let a move be made. We're gonna put more people in the public service? Since we're going to reduce the state's expenses, this way we're going to cut them down, permanently perpetuating the old? Every one of them writes on the news: so many doctors, they need so many here, and so on. So what about the permanentization of old and the appointment of new ones? And when will the Greek State ease costs? When will it stop being the gangrene of the country, ladies and gentlemen? Do you want the idea of voting to be inherited by each government from the previous one and to have the argument that the previous ones did the same? Is this the way of governance? I'm against simulations. For a few years one has to go out five and come in. Let's keep up with it, at least that. Let's show you serious. It says the government has solved the financial problem. Barozo, who came 15 days ago, said there is still a danger for Grexit. Barozo was an enemy of the government? Was he an enemy?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u115	Lover! GOLDMAN SACHS Vice-President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u116	Is that Baroz? The Vice President...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u117	It's nothing else.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u118	And the moderns who say the same, the moderns are all with you? Well, all right, it's a year. We'll see. It's been a year, Mr. Xydakis. Close psalm, crosses! Don't be in a hurry. You'll be happy a year. What are you gonna do next, I don't know.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u119	We're going to work, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u120	But what damage would you have done in the country, Mr. Xydakis? Work is, of course, a solution, but the damage you have done, who will pay for it? You in your pocket? Finally, I want to say two things. I know the Hall lives in her world. You will solve your own finances and Mitsotakis has been sewing the costumes of Ministers. I know that the Chamber has lost its seriousness, that's all right, and that voices of consensus and logic do not listen to them at all, or consider them graphic or otherwise. We will continue as Centrals to fight for the right and do not care how the Chamber is to behave. I address to the people. And here from the House, from this Step, don't think I'm referring primarily to the three hundred. I am referring above all to the people who are listening to and who sees a political system that cannot condone, solve five problems, and we have half the people to say that they can do the same thing on their own, insulting and undermining others and others to sew suits because they will do the same tomorrow. And in the meantime, the cost, the suicides, the transport abroad, who pays them? Who has the courage to pay all these burdens? Mr. Xydakis says he's going home. No, Mr. Xydakis, it's not just your home, it's your responsibility, Mr. Xydakis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u121	Thank you, Mr President. The President of Potamio, Mr Stavros Theodorakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u122	However, I do not understand, ladies and gentlemen, why some in social media are surprised that the debate on evaluation takes place twenty days after it was closed. Besides, we live in the country where the heating allowance was given on Friday 30 June, with the thermometer showing 45 degrees Celsius. But let's go to the agenda. I read: "Greek when with a national fanatic, when with a national mushroom, it manages to monitor the great dates of history, the major transformations that are taking place in the group of advanced European countries. Cologne, Greece travels with the best train in the world, but is always a passenger of the last wagon. It is enough delayed and it is going up at the last minute." The finding is Professor Yiannis Vulgaris. It has been a number of years ago, but it has been faithful to what continues to happen in the last few years in our country. Greece, which arrives late and always rises at the last minute in the best train the world has. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over, Mr Nikolaos BOUTSIS]] And we need to see what these delays cost us. Economic valuation is relatively easy. The republics of 2015 were valued at around 80 billion euros. And now the representatives of the European institutions are talking about the cost of more than 100 billion. But what is the damage from the delay in the last assessment? None, only profits are supported by Mr. Chakalotos. The Minister gave an interview to AUGIA on 25 June. The title of the newspaper "AGEY" was: "Yes, in June we gained three major gains in the Eurogroup". And Mr. Tsakalotos lists the three major gains. I read, for example, from the newspaper 'AUGIOS'. First profit. We have closed the primary surpluses to 2%, i.e. we have changed the 'at least 2%' of May. That was the first gain. Secondly, we have changed the wording for debt measures from 'if necessary' to 'the extent required'. And third profit for the Minister: there is greater clarity for development measures and development in general. These are, therefore, the three profits of the delay for the Minister, Mr Tsakalotos, a 'at least two' which became 'two', a 'if necessary' which became 'to the extent required' and a clear reference to growth. What about the damages? If the Minister turns his gaze to the humble economy, he will realize that we have a very specific damage to the real economy. The deposits have been reduced again, the state's debts have increased to the citizens and red loans have been multiplied. The Bank of Greece says growth in 2017 will be 1.6%, while the forecast was 2.7%, i.e. a loss of national wealth of about 2 billion. Obviously, if the government knew where its proud negotiation would end, it would have been closed a long time ago, as would some of its members. We were warning about the dangers, but no one was listening. Because this is a permanent symptom of the Greek political scene, the closed ears. Nobody listens to anyone, because everyone knows everything. So we live the same stories again, an endless crisis that has led society to resignation. I don't just want to stay in numbers because it's not just the numbers. Continuous delays permanently perpetuate defeat in Greek society, as a platform for a provincial team that is always struggling to avoid subjugation. And within this treaty, the darkest theories are being developed, "the great people who hate us", "the referees who are set up" and finally, "the protectors who will eventually save us", Venezuela at the beginning and then Iran, Russia, China. You have, gentlemen, been in the government completely unprepared. Two memorials and three hundred protests brought you to power. Instead of using the time to study the reality, to draw up a plan, you saw the country's rule as a school trip, nice lines and cocktails for opponents. The hammer is so tender, because I really should say mud and slander. And when problems began to appear, you resorted to old texts, old theories, old practices. Result? Worst performance in work, in justice, in education, to get only three areas. I shall refer a little to these three areas. Business. Everyone, seven months a year, works for the tax office and the insurance funds. To put it differently, for every 100 euros proof of services, the State receives EUR 60 to 80. The day of tax freedom, namely the day when the average taxpayer finally works for him and not for the state, will this year be 23 July. Last year it was July 6th and in 2015 it was June 27th. That is, every year, we add two more weeks of work on tax and insurance funds. They are elements of the Center for Liberal Studies "Marcos Dragoumis". But for what public taxes, it's the next question. Because if you have the feeling that there is care and security for your family, you say carpet. And Sweden has big taxes. But he also has great benefits. Greece, however, is currently ranked among the thirty developed economies, as regards indicators of social protection, health services, digital infrastructure and the quality of education. Last in the thirty developed economies. Sweden's contributions, therefore, but with third-world benefits. This is also the relevant international report. I'm tabling it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the Party, Potami, Stavros Theodorakis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned report, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So that means an informal society. The size of the public, overtaxation and stateism is such that the Greek economy is considered internationally free. That's the characterization. It takes just one hundred and twenty-seventh positions between an hundred and eighty countries, in the same company as Bangladesh and Mongolia. I'm handing you the international data. [[At this point the President of the Party, Potami Stavros Theodorakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] But let's go to more practical governance issues. You know, I'm obsessed with some details that often go unnoticed. So I'm going to tell you a small question of justice, because by nailing the lion. Those who have committed offences - notice what we have decided - which brings penalties up to two years, are exempted if they have been committed by 31 March 2016. If the same offences have been committed the following day, on April 1st, they are punished. That's our justice. We cannot, in other words, give justice and see almost indiscriminate and unjust offences. At the same time, to go to a matter of topicality, we leave whole neighborhoods at the mercy of gangs. It's an old story. It's not just your years, but I'm afraid with you it's not just incapacity. There's a philosophical conception of politics. What do I think? The immunity you give to criminal groups operating in universities and Exarchia is like left-hand dictionaries. I mean, we might put taxes, we might be auctioning, but the police crackdown won't pass. To mold the extremists, proceed to one step in the next time. You are saddening another retreat to the question of education. Not that everything was fine, but what was a little good, we're getting backwards. Re-elasticise asylum to fit gangs like the ones that students report at universities: prostitution, theft, drugs, vandalism. You are bringing a bill for universities that beats democracy, transparency and, above all, that interest us - the extroversion. It brings back dependencies from the faculty establishment, strengthens party orders and not students, prevents universities from gaining resources to sustain themselves in difficult times. We did a survey: Two out of three citizens don't want party parties in universities. We will publish the survey on Wednesday at an open press conference at the Institute of I2 - it is the Institute of the River - and the reform network. But know that this time students and teachers are determined to react to the new counter-reformation in education. The country, ladies and gentlemen, must begin to give the right battles. Let's stop chasing our tail. Do not exhaust our powers by simply begging for the next dose. Plan, self-awareness and responsibility. There are a number of elements that show that the country remains in decline. I will insist on some small but indicative of this decline: first in smoking, first in passive smoking, first in wheelchairs, first in caesareans. However, because we are also in July, I would like to refer to some of the small ones who are huge and related to our tourism and the lives of our children: garbage, dumps, sewers which continue to be spilled into the rivers and the seas. How many biological cleansings are working all over the country? How many dumps end in the Aegean? It's not the time to stigmatize areas, but we need to know. I was in a blessed place days ago, and I saw a slime sliding into the sea. I asked a fisherman what exactly that slime is. He said to me: ‘Let's go, man. It is the Turks who throw the drains into the Aegean.’ But the Turks are almost a hundred nautical miles away. Our responsibility, our priorities? In your two and a half years you have been ruling, you have reinforced the view, gentlemen of SYRIZA and ANEL, that problems are solved by invoking slogans, without a plan, that voices are enough, often even in cases of extreme by you and curses. The avenue of populism has always been great in our country and not only in your years, but in the years of crisis, in recent years, it has become a joy to swallow everything. I listened to Mr Tsipras in BSE - I was also in the Chamber - who said: 'To respect the different voices, to isolate the extreme voices in the country'. Who is Mr. Tsipras addressing? Half the society he called traitors? Unless he was talking about the ministers - this is where the thing changes - Mr. Kammenos and Mr. Polakis. But I have a different assessment of the latest events. The vulgar ties Mr. Kammenos puts up to celebrate the closure of the evaluation, like Mr. Paulakis' surrogate so-called maids against justice, are not a moment's accidents, that is, not a bad time. They are part of the identity that they are trying to give to the rule of SYRIZA - ANEL. Beware, it is an antisystemic vulnerability addressed to the angry, fanatics, extremists to tell them: "We are like you, don't look at our ministerial privileges, see how antisystemic I am." Antisystemicity, however, should have had other features, such as not repeating the mistakes of the past, namely the party public, party recruitment, the two-month and four-month contracts for the unemployed. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, you do not want, and I fear you cannot join, the country on equal terms in the new global division of labour. Development and investment were not inconsistent with SYRIZA - ANEL. The country needs hundreds of investment, small and large, which will have a final value of tens of billions. Throughout the developed world they are discussing the fourth industrial revolution, the robotic revolution, the artificial intelligence, the Internet of things. We just keep extracting brains here. Our children are studying and magnifying elsewhere rather than creating jobs here for all of this. The left, therefore, who governs us, along with a little extreme right, ignores and mocks the individual initiative. The outdated party public and ideas prevent people from creating and going down the country. However, we should let them do so by means of development solutions to a rule of law. In other words, to respect the struggles of the people of production, to learn from their victories even at this time of crisis. All these small revolutions can compose the progressive revolution that the country needs. All this, however, has a minimum condition for us to move away from conservative solutions, such as those you are unfortunately serving for thirty months now, to choose solutions that they see in front, without left-wing and right-wing bumpers, which can only guarantee the progressive centre. No front and left, no front and right. That is, finally, to change era and not just government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u123	Thank you very much Mr Theodorakis. Please, before the Prime Minister talks again, why then will Mr Juliarakis take the floor on the grounds of the Prime Minister's debate and planning, Mr Paulakis will speak for three minutes on personal matters. We have said this before, because Mr Vorides has been given the floor. It's not a matter. You're welcome, Mr. Polakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u124	Thank you, Mr President, for giving me the floor. Mr Mitsotakis previously called us institutional vulgar, on the occasion of some statements in relation to the Council of State's decision and some other humorous statements on social networks. It is obvious that we have a different scale of values. I would like to ask Mr Mitsotakis in particular what is institutional vulnerability. For me institutionally inappropriate and institutional vulnerability is not to have brought you the next day that you had your own and your wife, who has had a great increase in assets and markets through lending.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u125	How do you know that?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u126	Secondly, it is institutionally inappropriate...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u127	How does he know that, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u128	Is that a personal matter?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u129	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u130	Mr President, is this a House debate? I'm sorry, he's talking about the president of the Police Department, where you've been...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u131	Mr. Brutsi, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u132	It is institutionally inappropriate and institutionally vulgar....
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u133	Shame on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u134	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u135	Institutionally inappropriate...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u136	So, he's in where Mr. Paulakis came from?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u137	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u138	What are these things, Mr President? You have destroyed democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u139	I'm on it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u140	Mr. Brutsi, please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u141	You have destroyed the rules of democracy. Does Mr Paulakis know what is happening to the President of the New Democracy?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u142	Please don't interrupt. Obviously it is mentioned and it takes responsibility for publications on this subject. He's taking responsibility himself. Excuse me, do you realize...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u143	Yeah, but where is the staff? Staff responses?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u144	Is that personal?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u145	Where's the staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u146	Please, let him finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u147	Where's the staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u148	It's personal. What can we do? Come on, Mr. Polakis, continue, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u149	If they let me go, there's not much I want to say. Four - five things are.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u150	Let us 'Soviet' in Parliament!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u151	Institutionally inappropriate is that there should be a loan in your property newspaper, for which you have not paid anything for a decade, and when this is revealed in the committee of Parliament, you should make a arrangement, with which three quarters of the loan will be paid in the last instalment, that is, each Greek citizen can do. Institutionally inappropriate, in my opinion, is that all of you have been hospitalized by the family in "Dynan" to have paid nothing or little and also received - imagine this was with a member of today's government - the advertising of your "Red Cross" relative. This is institutionally permissible. It is institutionally inappropriate, in my view, to be a party as a whole for a decision by the Council of State, which relieves the lists of tax-railers, Borgians and Lagard, by trespassing all senses of common sense about the legal feeling.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u152	Thank you, Mr. Polakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u153	Wait a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u154	He's responding on staff!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u155	We're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u156	And finally institutionally inappropriate and institutional vulnerability is to charge the tax office EUR 30 million for those who were hospitalized from 2012-2014, because we are doing the opposite. We delete these debts from these people. I would like some specific answers on that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u157	Thank you very much, Mr Polakis. Look, when there's a bad start, unfortunately, it's going on. And I take the full responsibility of myself, because Mr. Vorides also took the floor, beyond his staff, to open up the whole question and referred to what, in his opinion, happened with Mr. Giannousakis and others. When discussions are held at the level of party leaders and then there are seconds, it is important that all this material should be gathered by the leaders and that the issues relating to persons also be answered. In any case, the procedure has evolved. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u158	Thank you, Mr President. I thought that today Mr Mitsotakis asked for the debate in the House on the economy and the decision of the Eurogroup. Instead, I found that he spent at least fifteen minutes in his speech to comment on Mr Kammenos's tweets and Facebook posts. So great was the concern of talking about the economy, which started this debate - which has been calling for and has been told many in the media that it will be time to learn the truth about the agreement - by commenting on posting on social networks. You're not a troll in social media, Mr. Mitsotakis. You're Chief of Officer Opposition, and I expected you to have something substantial to say. But the poverty of your arguments about the economy has led you to consume 15 minutes. I'll come to those 15 minutes and give answers. I will, however, begin by commenting on a few things you said in the second half of your speech concerning the economy and the Eurogroup's decision. Mr. Mitsotakis, first of all, it seems that you do not understand how important it is for the Greek economy to have a locked algorithm in relation to the measures necessary for debt write-downs. Of course, you have not understood it because your party, your party, as a prolongation, had never raised the debt as an important parameter for the course of the economy and you thought investors would come back to trust the Greek economy because you have told them - and now, if you govern, you will make them all the favours and you will join the most extreme neoliberal choices to reduce labour costs. However, debt is a key parameter and key factor. And what was ensured in the Eurogroup decision of 15 June is the primary surpluses, in the medium and long term, of 2%. You may say that this is a little more and you might want more reduction. And we will agree with you on this, although of course you signed fours, not 2%. However, we cannot ignore the fact that on the basis of the country's obligations under the Stability and Growth Pact - which we, too, feel should be fulfilled as a country - and on the basis of public debt, in the medium and long term, the surpluses should have been at 2.6% rather than 2%. The 2% locking means automatically for those who can count on and understand and read the decision correctly, that this 0-15 that comes in, and that it is about the time to extend the maturity of the repayments and the grace period for interest rates, cannot be at zero - so simple - only in 15, 14, around the 15th region. This, along with the acceptance of the proposal for a development clause - which you have now come to question in terms of its positive contribution, namely to read the decision on the part of creditors and not from our side, and to tell us that if we have more growth they will have to reduce the debt measures, which do not come from anywhere and you will be able to see it in the near future, when it becomes even more specific in the near future, that this mechanism is only a positive one - it gives us stability and certainty that the necessary measures for the debt - the expansion - will indeed be close to the fifteen years and that in any case we are making our partners in the prospect of developing the Greek economy. That is why, for the first time, they are making commitments with regard to the development bank, which are much more necessary for the Greek economy than for any other euro area economy, but which we did not have - and you have never claimed it - but also for specific commitments through a platform of financial and action with the European Investment Bank as a pillar on this platform, but also with other euro area development banks. If that is insignificant to you, Mr Mitsotakis, it is enough for us to be very important for investors and to see this reading from the markets rather than your miserable reading. So you came to the House today in a soccer mood. Although from what I remember, not even in football, you're doing well with the predictions. You had predicted that Paris Saint Germain would take the championships and I had answered you with a post. But you answered me with ELSTAT. Okay. That is not enough now, because ELSTAT has reviewed. So you came and said we lost 5-0. But you finally drive us crazy in the autogols. And I want you to ask me a question. Since we didn't get anything, as you say, and we had five goals and we didn't put anyone on, why do they record a history low since the crisis started, since 2009, the performances of the Greek bonds? Why are rating houses upping Greece, after we have had five goals? Why? So, what are you going to say in the immediate future, when other rating agencies will upgrade Greece? You said, of course, to us today that 'the reason is not that you've managed and put a goal - 'you've eaten' five - but that we have on your counter, Mr Mitsotakis, and the markets see you coming at some point and you can balance. That's why the bonds go well. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Who are you trying to fool? Has such an argument ever been said before, such as what the markets expect after two years and judge not the government and its policy, but the opposition? I would nevertheless like to congratulate you because today you have taken a step. A few days ago you'd been to the Economist. And there you said neither much nor much to prepare for investments, not now, but in two years, when elections are held and if you win. And it seems that some serious people, and since your resignation, have recommended you to come here on such crucial national issues - because it is a national matter of recovering credibility and getting out of the crisis - and not being placed with party fanaticism. And that's what I'm saying. And you said the investments should come now. But you didn't have to say it yourself. Interest is indeed strong, indeed is unprecedented in relation to the years of the crisis, and the big bet for us is to make use of them, to make use of the next period. But you again came to make the same criticism in relation to our first period of government, in the first half of 2015, and the achievements of the Samara government. And indeed, seeing you from the government's benches to go forth, you reminded me of this favorite film in the Greek cinema movie audience, "Blackcat" with Hatzichristos "Three of oil, three of the vinegar." Is it possible to criticize us, Mr. Mitsotakis? Can you tell us that the EUR 100 billion negotiation has cost us, why are you taking into account the third loan, which we received in order to repay previous loans - not a new debt, that is, but to repay previous loans and not to use it as a whole - and also to take account of the forecasts that had been made in the medium term in 2014-2018, in view of the results we then had? If you want to compare them like this, then compare them with the 'blue cat' type economically. Let me remind you, Mr Mitsotakis, what predictions he had in the medium term in 2012-2015, which involved the two years that he governed the country as Prime Minister, Mr Samaras, and what the results were. In 2012, we had predicted growth of 1.1%. Do you know how much the recession was? It was 7%, Mr. Mitsotakis! For 2013, there was a projection of 2.1% growth. Do you know how much the recession was, Mr. Mitsotakis? It was 3.9%! For 2014, there was a projection for 2.1% growth. Eventually we had 0.4%. On the basis of your forecasts, therefore, if you want us to make the same bacaotic logic, 2012 should have been GDP at 210.8 billion and it was 195 billion. You lost 16 billion. In 2013 GDP had to be at 215.22 billion, but it was 184.5 billion. You lost 31 billion. And in 2014, based on your forecasts, GDP should be 219.7 billion. And do you know how much it was? It was 185 billion. You lost another $35 billion. How much is the whole? It's 82 billion! Don't touch your head. That's what you blame us for. Same cod-cat arithmetic.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u159	Basically, economics. Finally find out, your Minister will tell you!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u160	That's what you say, Mr. Mitsotakis!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u161	Please, be quiet. Please, Mr. Mitsotakis, do not revolt.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u162	And if, based on the same logic, we add all the 140 billion of the loan you have entered into, which Mr Samaras has taken, then it makes us 222 billion. Is that what you want? Is that what you want to compare? Should we go to Papandreou's time as well and add forecasts for results and add the first loan? Not to go, because the bill will be like the rocket we launched last week, the satellite. That's where the bill goes! But does it make sense to talk like that? Is the attitude of an Opposition Chief, who also has in his pearls that he knows financially, to come and compare such things? Is this a serious attitude to the economy? So I'm actually coming, Mr. Mitsotakis. As to how the period when you have ruled over the period when we are ruling will be judged, you will be sure that it will be judged above all in the social sphere. From how many unemployment you have created and how many jobs we will create. From how many social wounds you have opened and how many social wounds we will close. And, of course, it will also be judged to a large extent by the fact that you, if you add the two periods of Papandreou and Mr Samaras, had EUR 65 billion in measures and how we managed, by one tenth, to get the country out of the crisis one eighth of the budget burden you had. That's where we'll be judged. And I come to another point in your speech. You accused us of having promised to bring more than tax evasion and we have brought nothing. Criticism is within democracy. We are all judged, both the governments, and the executive, and legislative and judicial powers many times. It is another fact that her decisions are respected. But they're judged. If I understood it correctly, then, I find out from the aggression I see in some criticism statements and the joy that has taken you on the basis of a last decision of the Council of State that you are probably on the side of those who have to avoid, in your view, paying. You referred to some evidence. Let me tell you, then, that the amounts established by the customs authorities for cases of fuel and tobacco infringements in the period from 2013 to 2014 were EUR 219.239 000. That was yours. What did we do? From 1-1-2015 to May 2017 in the same infringement category, the certified fines amount to EUR 711,763,000. As far as the Lagard list is concerned, in 2014 the amounts established were EUR 26,620,000. From 2015 to 30 April 2017, the amounts established are EUR 237,964,000. As regards the Borgians list, from 2015 until April 30, 2017, 12,710,000 euros have been established. And most importantly, because you spoke about the collapse of the control mechanisms, you said that we have lifted the pencils, that we let them pass. I do not know, of course, whether you have said this with concern or with pleasure. So let's go to the voluntary disclosure of undeclared income, in which we, with our handling and with the legislative intervention of the VDI, managed and led a number of tax-raisers, by June 9, 2017, to voluntarily declare EUR 3,671,526 000, EUR 3,6 billion voluntarily. We did this. Now, Mr Mitsotakis, how we will manage to collect from them is another case in which we would like to see an ally rather than an ally move us to the finger and not to be glad that perhaps - I say 'possibly', because the good boy will find paths - if there are any institutional obstacles in place, of these EUR 3.6 billion, we will lose some money. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] You also referred to the subject of research - and we had a little interruption, although I am not used to it - and you told us that we should be ashamed. I don't understand, the roles are reversed in this Chamber. Where were the expenditure on research on your days, and in particular the period of the first and second memorandum? Do you know that they had fallen to the lowest percentage of GDP historically, at a time when all the countries who want to look ahead are investing in research and innovation? We first thing we did, in conditions of unprecedented lack of liquidity and of budgetary crisis, in the first difficult half of 2015 was to increase the budget by EUR 200 million in research. While you had reduced him in previous years, we made 16% increase in expenditure on research aid and we will continue to make available the required funds. It's reached 1%, it's 0.96% of GDP. It has to go a little further. Today it is announced that five hundred and thirty-eight scholarships will be provided to candidate doctors from the ELIDEK, the Hellenic Foundation for Research and Innovation, which we founded. For the first time in the country, scientific scholarships are given to such an extent, in an effort to keep the country's most important potential here or to turn it back. Along with resources from the NSRF, additional funds of 240m euros will be provided for research into HSF and research centres, as well as for the first time to such an extent in the country. Apparently, they don't keep you up to date, so I reacted. You think that because you have criticism, in your own ideological sense, on other issues relating to education, whoever gets the favor. So come on, let's see what's going on in the investigation. We also founded the Business Participation Fund, with the aim of creating startups and exploiting the research result and supporting innovative entrepreneurship. At least, Mr Mitsotakis, when you are criticizing, you should know the facts. I now come to comment on what you said in the first half of your speech. In the first half of your speech you did not talk about the economy, but you were mostly commenting on two Ministers. But you have reached the point - and that is why I answer, otherwise I would not answer -... Mr. Dendia, we'll time the minutes later.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u163	To be precise, eleven and forty-five exactly.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u164	Okay, thanks. You noticed it, and I see it, so it's a surprise to you. So I come here and say that I would not comment on it if I did not hear a phrase that really provokes me. You spoke of 'institutional vulnerability' on the part of the government. And I want to answer directly, Mr. Mitsotakis. Institutional vulnerability is not when one makes criticism, even with regard to their application, to the decisions of justice. On the contrary, institutional vulgarity is for you to talk about tax evasion and "listers", who were lost in your drawers, offering amnesty to your majestic friends. Institutional vulgarity is the sea-lovings taken by your parties and publishers to reinvigorate your politics and with "air" even, as they themselves stated in the Committee of Inquiry. Institutional vulnerability was the hatreds of "SIEMENS", which ended up in the funds of your bankrupt parties for years. Institutional vulgarity is not only to give Henry Dynan to private individuals, but to take care, before you sell it, to be nursed there for free, your relatives or to "work" there with slow-wage friends and acquaintances. And institutional vulgarity is to take advantage of your position in politics to get loans, personal or corporate, for your own use in loan and unscrupulously. Institutional vulgarity is to turn a party, which has a history in your place, your party or any party or the smaller one - I don't care about that - into arms of business interests in this House. Institutional vulgarity was what you did with your interview at "POLITICO", abroad, where "washed" on Golden Dawn and declared that violence in Greece only concerns the Left. That is institutional vulgarity! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And I close, ladies and gentlemen, with this: you have come to blame today for the SYRIZA Members for doing all they can for their chair. You blamed them for that. Listen, Mr. Mitsotakis: At the hanged man's house they don't talk about rope! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] The SYRIZA MPs were not born to be MPs and if at some point either the party asks them or their beliefs to be found in the violin, they are not unorthodox, they will not be lost. Woe to others who, without the chair, would be nothing! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And I close by telling you this: I had told you at some point from this, the Stepma, that you will finally become the first in the history of the Chief of Anti-Population, which you will be asking for almost four years' elections, and that will only take place when the institutions are here. Today I will tell you one more thing: you will also be the first to celebrate constantly, because you will win in the polls, but when the polls come, you will understand that the polls do not vote, the Greek people vote with these positions, programmes and your selective alliances you will not win. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] When the time comes, the Greek people will compare your things with our things and your proposals with our proposals, who are aiming and struggling to regain society and who aim to keep it mud in order to come back to the chairs of power. And this Greek people will, of course, judge when the time comes and they will again give us the next term, so that we can make the hard choices we made in the first two years, fruit them in two more years plus four that await us.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u165	MP I Thessaloniki Mr Markos Bolaris asks for permission from a short-day absence abroad from July 3, 2017 to July 6, 2017. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u166	The House therefore approved the requested permission. The Chief of Staff and President of the New Democracy Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u167	Mr Tsipras, I consider it an extreme expression of institutional vulnerability - since you have chosen to widen the definition, beyond my own criticism of Mr Kammenos's personal behaviour - the fact that you are still lying asymmetrically today. And to remind you of the scale of your lies, I would like to read a passage from an interview which you have given relatively recently, a few months ago, when you were asking - look, Mr Tsipras - the New Democracy how it should be placed against the irrational demands of the International Monetary Fund. So I read: 'The New Democracy and Mr Mitsotakis can no longer be hidden. They must answer the critical question of the juncture straightaway. Do they think that the unreasonable demands of the IMF should be accepted for additional measures of EUR 3.6 billion? They think we should legislate..." - you asked, rhetorically I imagine, Mr. Tsipras - "...reduction of tax-free allowances and new pension cuts? Do they believe that the exception from European law to industrial relations should be maintained and that the return of collective bargaining is a left-hand idea? By blaming the Greek Government's responsibility for the delays, Mr Mitsotakis obviously thinks that the IMF is right and that we should do what he asks us to do. We have a clear position that we must not and will not do so." Irrespective of hypocrisy, Mr. Tsipras! You said that five months ago and accepted it all. You voted for them, not us! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You signed the fourth Memorandum, all of you whom Mr Tsipras has rushed to defend, because you were engaged when I told you that you were doing everything for the chair. Because you know, because you are good as left-wing people, to reproduce the main line of the party. All that Mr. Tsipras said you have all said. All of you have said so and not found one of you with the elementary emotiveness to say 'I can't get back what I was saying' and resign. Not even one! Not one of you will be found, because you will sign what is requested to stay in the chair.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u168	Quiet, please! Please, Mr President, continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u169	I will come to this issue, Mr Tsipras, on the question of who is unclaimed at the end of my speech. Let's remind you that a few weeks ago you voted in 4472, 5.1 billion euros, pension cuts...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u170	Same again?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u171	Yeah, same again. Of course again, because some poor people will pay income tax for the first time. It's not the same for them. It's not the same at all! It might be the same for you, but it's not for them. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So who are you laughing at, Mr. Tsipras, when you say you were consistent with what you did? You come back and tell us that the economy is going so well and the Greek debt yields are falling because there is greater confidence in the government and in the prospects of the economy. The question I ask you is simple: why didn't the International Monetary Fund and the European Central Bank give you the certificate you claimed so that you could really inspire confidence in the markets? Because the IMF did not consider the debt to be viable and therefore the European Central Bank could not vote for confidence and integrate the Greek bonds into the quantitative relaxation programme. How many times have you mentioned this Step here, Mr. Tsipras? Why did you suddenly forget him? Because it didn't come out of you? Bad for the country, unfortunately. It would have been very good to have incorporated the Greek bonds into the programme of quantitative relaxation, but unfortunately you failed this central objective that you set and do not ask for the change from us. It's your responsibility, exclusively. I am truly surprised, Mr Tsipras, that you are coming to this Chamber and from this Step, you are still insisting on defending the negotiation of the first six months of 2015 after all that has been said, after all that we have learned, after all this huge disaster that has caused the delay in the negotiation. Was the negotiation good, Mr. Tsipras? I ask you directly. Do you consider it successful in the first half of 2015? Just answer right here. Because...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u172	We have 2017.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u173	Yes, in 2017 we are, but the Capital Controls are still here.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u174	Please don't take a vacation.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u175	The Capital Controls are still here, the results of your negotiation are still with us, Mr. Tsipras.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u176	The people judged it in the ballots.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u177	Well, make up your mind. You have two options: Whether you're going to say we made roses in the first half of 2015, but we retreated into the polls and we're "washed" from this bad season or you're coming over here to defend your things. So come on, Mr. Tsipras, why are you afraid to do an examination for the first half of 2015?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u178	The people judged all this.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u179	If you're so sure of the results of the negotiation, come here and talk about them. For there are still, you know, many shadows about what happened at the time, what happened, what were your real intentions, if you had a plan B, if only Mr Varoufakis had it, if all these incredible things we have heard were done with your approval. There are many unanswered questions, Mr Tsipras, which would be useful at some point to answer. I'm coming to the cost of the negotiation. I didn't talk about 100 billion euros. Mr Regling spoke and as far as I know, he is an extremely reliable economist. Isn't that right? Unless you're questioning it. I am not going to mention Mr Stournara, because I understand that there may be a degree of prejudice there. It is, however, truly inconceivable, Mr Tsipras, after the well-known huge damage that took place in the country in the first half of 2015, you insist and come here and say nothing has happened at all. You know, necessary conditions, if you really would like to build a new climate of consensus and understanding on important national priorities, yes, Mr Tsipras, I think it is self-awareness and recognition of major errors as a necessary first step. You haven't even dared to do that. You never apologized for the incredible lies you said before the 2015 elections. You have never asked for apologies for how the government fell at that time on the occasion of the presidential election. And don't shake me the finger for the Golden Dawn, because along with the Golden Dawn you dropped the previous government. Let go of these, not them to me! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] [[Noise - intense protests from SYRIZA Wing]] And along with the Golden Dawn...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u180	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u181	It's embarrassing what you're saying...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u182	Be quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u183	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u184	Mr. Philie...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u185	Be quiet. Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u186	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u187	Mr. Philly, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u188	I'm not withdrawing anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u189	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u190	I managed to call Mr. Friend in the party class!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u191	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u192	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u193	I'm not playing, Mr. Xydakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u194	Mr. Xydakis, please stop!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u195	If you look over here, I'll see you all, you know, there are Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u196	Quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u197	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u198	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u199	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u200	Mr. Xydakis, please, sit down. Ladies and gentlemen, do not make me withdraw you to class. Delete from the Minutes all that has been heard within Athos.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u201	Yeah, it would be useful.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u202	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u203	Mr. Balaura, don't hang up every time. Please stop.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u204	In order not to remember who described the votes of the Golden Dawn as a welcome change in the electoral law. It'll be remembered by the people who said it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u205	Be quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u206	And since you mentioned my interview at "POLITICO", which I doubt you're in the trouble to read, Mr. Tsipras, "POLITICO" was an article that used some of my own phrases, which I fully insist on. Terrorism in Greece, I will repeat it once again - not violence, do not confuse two different things - with an exception and I mentioned in the article, the tragic murder of Paul Physsa, was from the uterus of the extreme left, whether you like it or not.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u207	Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u208	Will you say to me "your shame"? To me? Aren't you embarrassed? That was the ideological womb of terrorism.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u209	Be quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u210	All crimes were committed on the right. Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u211	"17 November" as far as I remember...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u212	Be quiet, please. Stop!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u213	You're very temperate. Why are you shouting?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u214	Please don't shout.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u215	Do you realize who you're talking to? Have you realised that you are talking to someone who has mourned victims of this terror?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u216	Good honor the victims!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u217	From there on, the story...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u218	Don't go on, please. Mr. Darkness, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u219	From that point on, the story is not recorded. Unfortunately...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u220	Stop!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u221	Mr President, you will either impose order or I will stop. Finally!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u222	I'm trying. What am I supposed to do?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u223	Try harder. Do your job.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u224	Please be quiet. Come on, continue, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u225	On the question of political violence, I was quite clear. And in any case, I want to remind you...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u226	Right-wing delirium.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u227	Please. Stop it! Let's get together for talking to me about the extreme right. You're not shy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u228	What you're talking about!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u229	Please stop. Don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u230	I am sorry, Mr President, that once again you are losing full control of the debate when I speak. I'm really sorry. You should be at least more objective in your duties. This was not what happened when the Prime Minister spoke. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I'm coming back to the economy. Why, Mr Tsipras, loan interest rates - the yields of Greek bonds today are so higher than those of Portugal, for example? Indeed, you asked a reasonable question: why when the financial data...A, you don't know? Let me tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u231	I know, but I'm not interfering, because the answer is obvious.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u232	So I'll answer you. The answer is obvious that today foreign investors do not trust your own government, when you talk about growth and investment, because you have a highly assured past. It's just stuff, Mr. Tsipras. You know, you can't do permanently a hundred-eight-dollar turns - not three hundred sixty-degree. Confidence, which is the magic word, so that bond yields can finally fall, is not built with your ministers - I do not see him here - which characterise the 'light adjustment' of the EUR 14.5 billion measures and the commitment to exterminating primary surpluses of 3.5% of GDP. Of course, trust is not built with your ministers - I will come back to that later - who speak with prisoners. It is a policy of general tolerance to the issues of law and order, which is expressed in every public position of yours. And because confidence in the long term does not come, you will remain - and we will unfortunately remain as a country - only with the interest of short-term speculative capital. Indeed, such funds in a shallow market can move the bond curve. But it is not what the country needs today, Mr Tsipras. The country needs an explosion of foreign direct investment. The only factor that can cause this explosion is a political change, because investors do not trust you, because unlike what you say, investors do not forget your behaviour and the way you acted in the first half of 2015. I would also like to give an answer - because I am tired of hearing it - on the question of access for uninsured people to health. You continue to lie about this, Mr Tsipras and colleagues of the SYRIZA. I will therefore submit, in the Minutes, the joint ministerial decision, signed by Mr Stagiora, Mr Voridis and Mr Brutsis, dated 28 June 2014, "the insecure Greek citizens, the legally resident in the Greek territory, etc. they are entitled to free medical care.’ [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So stop, Mr. Tsipras, lying.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u233	You're lying. You've never applied it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u234	Please stop.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u235	You get carried away and you lie.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u236	Stop lying.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u237	Stop, please. This debate has been repeated here. Stop it. They're familiar with this.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u238	We have a Prime Minister who is always looking to find excuses for everything. You, Mr. Tsipras, are never to blame for anything. The failure to negotiate is due to opposition. It is the bad strangers, not you, Mr Varoufakis, and the crime of the referendum. For the derailment of the first semester, it's still Mr. Varoufakis, as if you hadn't appointed him. I forgot, I'm sorry. It's about the lawlessness in universities that there's no such thing as a fragile student movement. Are we serious, ladies and gentlemen? How do you say these things? Have you ever tiredled the asylum and talked about a fragile student movement? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You've delivered the universities to lawlessness, drug trafficking, you've made them a molotov building center. Is that what you mean, Mr. Tsipras, when you say there is innovation in universities? What are these things? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Remember that, too. The victims of crime are the bad moment. Finally take on your responsibilities, Mr Tsipras, and stop being an observer of the country's situation. I'm sorry to say this, but you're a Prime Minister far below the occasion. I come now - and I close with this - to the issues that you, too, have done with. Look, I asked you a number of very specific questions. I repeat: did you know that Mr. Kammenos was speaking with a isobite? I ask you directly. Do you know that, yes or no? I'm waiting for an answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u239	His isobite...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u240	Say it. It's not bad.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u241	Tell it to get it over with. Did you know or didn't know? It's time for the truth!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u242	Tell us. Did you know?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u243	Please, be quiet. Mr. Georgiadis, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u244	Because there are two things going on here. Or you knew, so we've been involved at the Prime Minister's level in a case that is extremely problematic or you didn't know, so Mr. Kammenos has been completely and misguided to enjoy your trust. Understand that, Mr Tsipras: it is not normal - and I am opening a parenthesis - no matter how good a man's intentions are, to speak with a convicted isobet. Do you understand what I'm saying? Do you understand? I would like to ask you directly: do you realize that it is not normal and that this thing is not happening in democratic countries? Do you understand that or not? Or does that look normal to you? Because you'd totally drive us out of here. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] A Minister comes in and speaks twelve times with a isobite. I don't know. Do you have regular conversations with isovites, Mr. Cammene? You may also be interested in other justice cases.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u245	I used to talk to one of them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u246	I do not know that, but I know that in a favoured state, these are matters relating to justice. The distinction of powers, Mr Tsipras, is exactly what this is all about. It is not possible for the executive to intervene in an open judicial investigation, no matter how good it is - to accept this - the intentions of the person involved. These are not happening in democratic countries. In any case, I would like to ask you a question, Mr Tsipras. I may be able to make an answer from you today. Mr. Kammenos has asked us to proceed with the setting up of a pre-request committee. We don't have to go that far. Do you agree to a committee of inquiry on this matter? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I have heard things, Mr Kammene, which have given me an impression.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u247	..................................................................................................................................................................... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u248	In this case, 'NOR.1'. I heard things, which are about creepy. I heard, for example, that Mr. Kammenos owns...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u249	..................................................................................................................................................................... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u250	Mr President, you have a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u251	I have heard that Mr Kammenos is in his possession, but he does not submit them to the House or to the judiciary, you have intercepted telephone conversations that are also involved in the New Democracy Members. Is that right? Did I say that right?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u252	It's online.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u253	No, you told us that you had them in your possession and you didn't testify to them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u254	In your time, it was.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u255	If, Mr Tsipras, you feel so sure about this case and consider the involvement of a minister in such a problematic case, here is the way out. Come on, let's set up a committee of inquiry, let's all agree on this case together. I told you all along, Mr. Cammene. I don't cover anyone in this case. I don't cover and it's not my job to cover anyone, because after all, it's justice that decides who's innocent and who's guilty. I cannot, however, fail to point out that this case of "NOOR.1" is a case known to all Greece since 2014. Am I wrong? Oh, no. There are a lot of rumours on the Internet. Didn't this case bother you, Mr. Kammenos, when Mr. Marinakis succeeded and became a successful man and took a television license? Why did Mr Marinakis suddenly come up with a matter after the Doll case? If there really was such a matter, I imagine - the bells should have been bored earlier. In any case, Mr. Tsipras, whom I know met, met Mr. Marinakis at the Maximos Palace, or if Mr. Tsipras hadn't met him, Mr. Papapas, why did I not meet him, Mr. Tsipras met him...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u256	..................................................................................................................................................................... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u257	From there on, if there were any issues, how is this meeting legalized? So, since you are so willing to agree, Mr Tsipras, on an examination, to open up the telephone bills, to see who was talking to who and to see if there was really political intervention, and if the committee of inquiry can actually contribute something to a case that is extremely problematic. Yeah, it's not just a case. I agree, Mr. Cammene. Two tons of heroin is not a simple case.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u258	Three tons.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u259	I don't know. Two, I read that it is. So if anything could contribute to this case, we are all here to agree. So come on, Mr. Tsipras. Accept my proposal. I'm closing up with a report that I can't leave, because it's the third time you've made it. I wasn't born unorthodox, Mr. Tsipras. I've worked in the private sector ten years. I'm stuck not only with the National Bank, gentlemen, but also abroad, with extremely large businesses and other Greek banks. You, Mr. Tsipras, just where have you worked? How many badges are you stuck with? Tell me: Who's the product of the party tube and who's not? I thought, Mr. Tsipras, that we had left these behind. Don't scratch in the cup of chopra, Mr. Tsipras. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Because if we want to see in this conversation who has and who doesn't have a professional route, you'll probably get hurt. So I'm hanging up. I was reminded by a friend, on the occasion of a conversation I had had a few days ago, to whom I referred and to Charles Marx, a saying: "Better a disgraceful end than a misery without end." That's what Carl Marx supported, and you'd do well to listen to him, Mr. Tsipras. After all, the disgraceful election result only concerns you. But without end, misery, which increasingly characterises the public speech, not so much yours, but certainly of your members, is about the entire Greek society, democracy, the present and the future of our country, and that, Mr Tsipras, is something that outweighs you. The only service you can offer in the country is one: at last give the word to the people. The sooner, the better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u260	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u261	Please, Mr President, I would also like to speak for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u262	Mr. Cammene, excuse me for a minute. Before I give the floor to the Prime Minister, I would like to make an announcement. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being followed by the top Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House organises and operates, fourteen refugees and a guest from the Scaramaga Host Center. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u263	Mr President, I will be very brief. I'll only say two things in two parts. The first concerns Mr Mitsotakis' constant reference to a very unpleasant case of Greek social and political life, the case of a ship, which was found with more than two tons of heroin and along the course, in judicial evolution, we became witnesses of sudden deaths of many of the main witnesses. And, of course, it is astonishing to all of us that this case did not come to the House when the Hellenes would help these sudden deaths, for this development, which does not honor either Greek society or our rightful system, but came recently, when the Civic Response attempted to involve the Minister of Defence, accusing him of trying to intervene in the work of justice. [[Noise and protests from the New Democracy Wing]] Let me talk. This case, Mr Mitsotakis, as you know, is being investigated by justice and in a case being investigated by justice, I think it is, at the very least, inappropriate to propose to Parliament that we now set up a committee of inquiry. I would like to tell you this: Anything you have... [[Noise - protests from the New Democracy Wing]] You say that you are not interrupting, but you are interrupting a lot more times than SYRIZA Members. I repeat to you: Any indication you have, whatever information you have, because so far what has been made public - and your speeches - has been that the Minister of National Defence has indeed spoken with someone who is in prison when he has asked for help in order to speak and testify, as he said - obviously we cannot trust a convict, but that is what he said - to give light to a dark case. What did he do? He told him to go to justice and say what he knows.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u264	Please, be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u265	If you have any indication that he has done anything more than that, behold the rose, behold it and fuck it. You do not need to ask for a committee of inquiry in the House. Go to justice. Judicial proceedings are in progress. A la carte cannot respect justice when it suits us and when it does not interest us to question it. Go testify what you have in order to investigate with all the other elements of this case. From that point on, the conclusions of all of us on whether or not the pain in this case has now taken us or not, let each one of us take them off his own. I shall close my position on a second point, which is the main reason why I am speaking. Mr. Mitsotakis, you have had the opportunity today to correct a historic blow that you have committed. And correct it, because I think we should not play with these things. This place has fresh history and this people have memory and the Greek people remember and know. It also knows where violence and terrorism emerged, and through what climate the most extreme form of terrorism has emerged in this place, which is the violation of the Constitution and the dictatorship of 1967. He knows this place and knows this people from where terrorism and violence come historically. Then, of course, there was also on the extreme left side, as you said. You'll be referring to 17 November. There's no one to question that. But is it possible in this Chamber to come as Head of an historic party, which has in fact contributed to this joint matter called 'national reconciliation' and to tell us that terrorism and violence come only from the extreme left? Wasn't there, Mr. Mitsotakis, in this place for you the murder of Lambraki, the "Karfitsa" case, the murder of Petroula, the murder of Tempnera? Wasn't the extreme form of violence on the extreme right side? Mr. Mitsotakis, I am very sorry, but it is obvious that you are trying to fish in the blurred waters of the extreme right-wing audience. And it is a disgrace to care for the ears of the far right and the Golden Dawn, to appear in the Greek Parliament so unequivocal. I would therefore like to ask you honestly to withdraw this phrase and to identify your position towards the history of this place, because it is insurmountable, unjust and unequivocal, the position you have taken a moment ago.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u266	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u267	You have the floor, Mr. Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u268	Once again, Mr Tsipras, you have attempted to twist my words. I have been very specific and talked about the Greek phenomenon of terrorism since post-population. I didn't mention the junta, nor what happened before the junta. That's exactly what I said!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u269	..................................................................................................................................................................... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u270	You refer to a tragic incident, which I have condemned.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u271	..................................................................................................................................................................... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u272	You want to count victims? Don't get into this conversation!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u273	You're very welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u274	So I am referring to this once again, and it would indeed be a profit if you recognized this, Mr Tsipras, because I could never have imagined you personally, nor would I have any suspicion of your own relationship with such behaviours, which refer to the catastrophe of democracy itself. However, it would indeed be an achievement and a conquest for democracy if you, coming from the Left, accepted this simple reality, that all the organised terrorist groups in Greece, who tried to give an ideological cloak to deterrent murder, had as a uterus the field of the extreme left. That would be a conquest if you said so. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And I am surprised that you are having such a hard time - and I see you are also grumbling - to recognise this historical reality, which is not questioned by anyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u275	Please, be quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u276	I didn't charge you anything, Mr. Tsipras. I charge you something different: I charge you that you do not systematically put the issues of law and order first political priority. I charge you the fact that you have let Exarches have become a zone in which the Greek state has no presence, but this is something different from what I said before. So come on, have the courage - and it will really be a profit for this Chamber, which I remind you has mourned victims of this terrorism - to come out and confess this reality, because it is not questionable, Mr Tsipras. Why are you confusing the Temponer case? Why are you confusing her? I am talking about organised terrorist groups that have systematically murdered people for decades. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Have you read...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u277	No relationship ever to the Left! They have expelled Andreas Papandreou for decades...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u278	Quiet, please! Be quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u279	I'm not talking about... [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] If we really want - and we have an obligation, Mr Tsipras and you and I - to stand courageously against any expression of violence and against any phenomenon of terrorism, so come along and condemn these behaviours and make the historical account comprehensive. Because, in fact, it is strange that Greece is the only country in Europe where this kind of terrorism - which in other European countries had been active in the 1960s, in the 1970s - perhaps because of historical reasons - I am not going to justify any act - left it or allowed it - to still exist and murder innocent people. That is why I am telling you, Mr Tsipras, it is enough that you and your Members read the manifestations of these organisations. There is no doubt about where they come from ideologically. No doubt! Look, I'm not saying they come from SYRIZA. I said quite clearly that they come from the extreme extra-parliamentary left. That's what I said!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u280	Clearly speak of Golden Dawn, Mr. Mitsotakis!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u281	Is Golden Dawn or isn't it a criminal organization? Get in position!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u282	Please, be quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u283	Please. Please. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Mr. Tsipras, you're talking about Golden Dawn. As far as I remember, it was the New Democracy government who sent the Golden Dawn case to justice with the suspicion that there might be a criminal organization. Isn't that right? Isn't that right, Mr. Tsipras? Is it or isn't it? So that's the way it is. Mr. Dendias did it. We are united - I want to believe - against the extremes, wherever they come from. However, these will not alter the historical deposit, nor will they erase the historical memory. It would be a sign of great political courage, Mr Tsipras, if you were able today, in the memory of all the people who have lost theirs from these terrorist organisations, to rise and confess - not to confess, to accept, you have nothing to confess, apologise, I withdraw my expression - this historic reality. You will offer a lot of good things to our democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u284	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u285	Here, you have the floor, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u286	Mr Mitsotakis, I am really sorry that in your attempt, of course, you are insisting on something that is really unstoppable. And it is indiscriminate for the following reasons: First, I will put it to you on an ideological basis and placement. I do not want to recognise - and I am not going to do it and we are not coming from the Left, we are the Left at the place - and I am not going to recognise as a left ideology anyone who takes away the highest freedom that exists in this world, which is human life. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] I am not going to accept neither myself nor any of us here carrying a story on our backs, people who have been sacrificed - sacrificed their lives on the islands for their beliefs, ever raising the gun against unprotected people, but fighting for their lives - what you urge me to do today: to accept that violence and terrorism have one-dimensional roots or uterus on the left. Secondly, and on a practical basis now, not on ideological grounds. Mr. Mitsotakis, in your interview you didn't say exactly that. Unless they published other than what you said. So take a step here and say that you denounce the "POLITICO" that others published and others you said. Say it. We are open to all of us to say together that the international media should be much more careful when it comes to such sensitive issues. POLITICO, therefore, states in its report that you said "the violence has been a ben almostively from the Left in recent years", i.e. "violence has been almost exclusively from the Left in recent years". Mr Mitsotakis, this is an unscrupulous approach and how much more so for you coming from a family who has been victimized and which is why it should show an open, open-minded, open-hearted view. Can you say that? Is it possible to see the fact that, now, you said the years after the post-Macedonia - even in the years after the post-Macedonia - both in Greece and in Europe there were cases of organised violence on the right side of the Union? Were there not in Italy cases of bombings or in Greece also by organised forces on the far right? Do you write all this down? And let's not go that far. Let's go recently. So what, in your opinion, is the Golden Dawn for which Mr. Dendias - you are right to say with him - we have proceeded with the procedure so that the case of the Paul Bridge can be investigated judicially? In your opinion, what is Golden Dawn? It is a political party that has equal political rights to the other parties, because it is voted on by Greek citizens. Yes, sir. I would like you to tell us here today: we believe - and we say this openly and publicly - that the Golden Dawn, apart from a political party, is the same or paralysis of the criminal organisation, Mr Mitsotakis. We call it open to the Greek people. Will you agree with that? Yes or no?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u287	And we say so. Are you kidding me?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u288	Good. So since you are also saying so, then, rather than in your interview, but here too, you have committed a double blow, Mr Mitsotakis, and I am glad that you will finally agree with me and admit it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u289	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u290	Mr. Mitsotakis, isn't this conversation closed?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u291	No, because I have to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u292	But why do you have to answer that? Six times it's done. Make it a little quick. The rest of the parties are waiting to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u293	The Golden Dawn, Mr. Tsipras, is a hideous neo-nazi organization whose behaviour does have evidence of a criminal organization. Are you guys covered?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u294	Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u295	Mrs. Gennamas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u296	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u297	But you have a dentistry in a few minutes. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u298	I won't.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u299	Yeah, but that's not right. Don't you understand? Mrs. Gennamas has the floor, Mr. Kammenos.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u300	After Mrs. Gennamas, I want the floor for the answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u301	What's your answer? The process isn't closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u302	I request the floor for a personal reply.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u303	But is it personal? Immediately after the President, you will take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u304	After Mrs Gennamas, Mr President, I would ask for the floor on staff that has not been given to me before.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u305	Sure. Mrs. Gennamas, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u306	Ladies and gentlemen, this debate we have been following over the last few minutes is really incomprehensible and unacceptable, because we are sending a message to the Greek society that the political system cannot come up with a single and effective front or against terrorism. Finally! And there is no doubt that violence and terrorism do not only come from the extreme left. There's Golden Dawn, there's fascism, there's the far right. Let us not forget that. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Before moving on to my second and specific points, I would like to remind you that in my protagonist I spoke about the policy against the government and the Prime Minister personally. I would now like to add that his co-pilot, who confirmed my words, immediately thereafter, also appeared. Congratulations, Mr. Tsipras! Rejoice in this conglomeration, your spirit and style! I am sorry, however, for this catastrophe, for the way you face your political opponents, and indeed your predecessors! I would therefore like to focus on a number of points - answers, as you said in your speech. You said that the 2012 Eurogroup decision had vague debt reports and regulations if only and if necessary. This is an inconsistent report, which you are saying too. Because if you do not twist the truth again, it means that you have not read the decision. The decision speaks of fully specific initiatives and measures, which would be implemented immediately after the end of the 2014 programme. Point two. You told us that the partners would support after 2018 to get out on the markets and that it is a success that there is this particular reference to the agreement you concluded. Indeed, that is what the decision says. However, what you did not tell us is that this is an exact copy of the 2012 Eurogroup decision, which provided precisely the same for 2014. Two years, then, lost on your own sole responsibility. I am tabling the Eurogroup's decision to take it up to you to study it as well, since you have not read it by your Members too. [[At this point the President of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Fotini (Phot) Gennamata presents for the minutes the abovementioned decision, which is located in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] A few hours ago we heard that there are a hundred thirteen prerequisites and we also heard that there are also a few new measures coming in the autumn from official European institutions. Why, at last, gentlemen of the government, do you not present us here in the House to what exactly are you committed to, so that the Greek people can finally know all the details? You said you were satisfied with the minimum reduction in unemployment - and I come to the third point - rather than apologise for the loss of opportunity for real growth in these two and a half years, which would create new, multiplier and permanent jobs. Take the trouble, Prime Minister, to read how many of the jobs created are low and flexible. Can I talk to you? It's over 50%. Are you still satisfied with the results of your policy? President-in-Office, the nightmare of unemployment through the eight-month public procurement method cannot be addressed. Only your customer relationships are met through them. So do not cultivate new hallucinations. Only by means of a serious development plan and an investment explosion can we have substantial results on employment, which you confessed a moment ago that you did not have and have never had until today. Point 4. I listened very carefully to your references to the critical health issue. Tell me, Mr. Tsipras: has Mr. Paulakis done you and live in this virtual reality, which is constantly presenting for health? Don't you see, you hear nothing about what's going on? Public hospitals are falling apart. Even the elementary ones are missing. Citizens are suffering, with health risks, even for their own lives. Doctors and workers are suffering. And finally, these eight thousand, nine thousand, ten thousand, eighteen thousand recruitments that are constantly being announced, hired - ghosts, expected for two years, will ever happen? The hospitals can't work with public works and subsidiary services. So fewer words and more actions in the health sector, Mr Tsipras, more respect for citizens and health workers. Ladies and gentlemen, in the last Eurogroup the cycle of the great illusions that Mr Tsipras has produced has finally been closed. Mr. Tsipras was ruthless with all his predecessors. Now, however, the time has come for his own crisis. So tell us one issue, one case - only one - to which you have brought forth something more favourable than what you have fought with passion in previous years. There is not one case of this kind or one that has been better dealt with in your day. On all the major issues of the country that affect today and tomorrow of the Greek economy, developments are now more unfavourable. The result of your policy is the impoverishment of the middle class and the destruction of everything creative and productive. Mr Tsipras, if you think - because I hear your ministers every day making bad comparisons - that you have already been ruling for two and a half years in conditions which are much more favourable than in previous years, you will understand the size of your policy problem. You received public funds with surpluses rather than the beastly deficits received by the PASOK Government in 2009. You found the economy in small, but positive growth rates, with all international organisations predicting high growth rates in the period 2015-2016. The oil that, with its prices, has a decisive effect on both the external trade balance and the real economy, as well as the family Valley, has found it at very low prices. Have you considered under what conditions the huge financial adjustment achieved by our governments when you burned Athens? You found the country on the road to the clearing. You had normal social and political conditions, without the squares and the indignant. In the summer of 2015, you had the greatest political consensus. What was the result? Did you manage to take advantage of all this favourable environment? A drawback, this was the result, the heavy price paid by the Greek people and the new generations, the price of populism, demagogy and incompetence. Clearly, your circle is closed. So, the sooner you leave, the better it will be for you and the country. Where you brought things - because we have been shouting for a year - the solution is going through the elections. The answer must be given by the Greek people with a new verdict. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u307	Mr Kammenos has the floor for two-three minutes, before Minister Juliarakis and before Mr Michaloliakos.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u308	Mr President, I will be very brief. Because Mr. Mitsotakis wondered where these legal intercepts of the NSA are, I would like to answer to him that the legitimate intercepts of the NSA are posted on the channel of his friend, Mr. Alafouzos, in SKAI and have been played on the show "Judge in Sky" by Mr. Thomaidis. I'd like to remind him of another detail. It is in 2014 that the head of NSA was appointed by you, Mr. Mitsotakis, by your own government. So look for the legal intercepts. Get to SKAI and ask Mr. Alfouzo, who will easily explain where to find them the legitimate intercepts that include MPs of the New Democracy. A second point is this: you mentioned, Mr Mitsotakis, earlier to me, telling me about criminal groups. You asked me who these are, and whether I'd talk to a villain. May I remind you of a criminal group? I will tell you about 'ENERGA', which stole EUR 240 million from the public funds and ordered the murder of an honest state minister. Do you know who the lawyer showed up with? He showed up with Mr. Voridis who only makes bourgeois. So look for yourself, Mr. Mitsotakis, in your vaginas to find out who they're talking to... [[Laughers from the New Republic ward]] Are you laughing? It was a time when Mr Psykris also made the e-mails and asked the Minister to arrange for release. That kind of transaction I didn't have, Mr. Mitsotakis. The only transaction I had was the one I formally described by the Minister of Justice, as provided for by the Code of Criminal Procedure. So toys with others and not me! Remember those things. Nor on the Mamania case, if you want to remember the oldest, Hercules Sifakakis, and on how the jobs were going back then, when you sent Gryllakis indicted. As far as the meetings with Mr Marinakis are concerned, you say that you have never met Mr Marinakis. On the 14th or 15th of the month, the Economic Police entered his office. On the 16th of the month she ate with your sister and her daughter in Piraeus, as I have said since my previous speech, just before attacking the media she has. So don't question such meetings. You've been organized, you've spoken and you've struck. Here it is!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u309	Thank you. Minister Juliarakis, please, has the floor. Minister, how long should I put fifteen or twenty minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u310	Fifteen minutes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u311	Okay, I've got 15 minutes, because it's prototype and second-guess. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u312	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the question that the House will be discussing today is whether the decision of the Eurogroup of 15 June is a success for the country, if it strengthens the prospect of a successful exit from the multiannual crisis and the prospect of a successful completion of the programme. As in any assessment of the effect, the answer to that question depends on the objectives which the Greek Government itself had set itself. And I want to be clear from the point of view of this: the Greek Government's aim at completing the second assessment was not to implement medium-term debt restructuring measures. We know from the outcome of the Eurogroup in May 2016 that this implementation will come to the end of the programme. A stated objective of the Government, however, and therefore a success criterion, was the clear description of medium-term debt relief measures and the clear commitment of the partners creditors that these measures will be implemented gradually from August 2018 onwards. I've already mentioned it many times in previous speeches. I mentioned this in my speech to the Subcommittee on Debt, in the budget debate, in the debate on the medium-term budgetary strategy framework. This, too, has been repeated at the ECONOMIST conference. But it seems that Mr Mitsotakis has bad consultants, who are not properly informed and therefore expose him to Parliament. I would remind you that in his position, Mr. Mitsotakis claimed that I said we would not expect to take anything for the debt. So listen to the narrative of what I said at the ECONOMIST conference: ‘No one would expect the medium-term restructuring measures to be implemented at the end of the second assessment’. The implementation! "We all know that full identification and implementation would take place at the end of the programme." Note: "What we expected from the June Eurogroup was a clear signal to the markets that the creditors are fully committed to debt relief as soon as the program is completed and also, beyond that, to identify as detailed as possible the parameters on which restructuring will be supported. And our expectation was that these parameters would be realistic and reliable. I think we have achieved this." This is a verbatim, in other words, the transcript of my speech at the ECONOMIST. So Mr Mitsotakis should discuss with his advisers again. Why, however, is it so important that the clarity of the debt relief measures, what we say, the parametrication of medium-term restructuring measures, is so important now, a whole year, namely, before the completion of the programme and while we know that its implementation will follow after August 2018? The main reason is that this clarity is a critical milestone, a critical dimension in the country's path of sustainable exit into international markets. Without this clarity, the uncertainty about the sustainability of the debt discourages investors and is an inhibiting factor in recovering market confidence towards the Greek debt. Secondly, it is extremely critical that the country's exit to international markets is not a moment but a long process. It will not be recovered, in other words, suddenly the next end of the programme, on 21 August 2018, but it will be built gradually, several months before the end of the programme. That is what Portugal has done, that is what Ireland, and so has Cyprus and the experience of these countries. Since Mr Mitsotakis mentioned Portugal's experience, I should simply say here that one year before Portugal came out of the programme its own interest rates were about two hundred points higher than the loan interest rates, long-term borrowing, the Greek debt today. A year before the programme came out Portugal had two base points higher loan costs than Greece has today. However, since we are talking about Portugal, six months before the exit from the programme, its own interest rates were at 6%. Five months ago, four months ago, three months ago and as the exit date was approaching, interest rates were deviating, so that the date of exit from the program was at sustainable levels of 3%-3.5%. The experience of the New Democracy, the experience of Officer Response, from the second programme is exactly the opposite. From summer 2014 until the end of the program and even before the election announcement in December 2014, interest rates climbed a month from 6% to 9%. Cash reserves, i.e. the reserve needed to secure the country’s exit markets in the event of external shock, were zero. And if I'm not mistaken, the debate in the autumn of 2014 was not for a preventive support line, but for a reinforced support line, for a credit line accompanied by prerequisites, that is another memorandum. More generally, exiting the markets requires significant progress in three areas. The first area is the scope of fiscal adjustment and reforms. The second field is the definition of medium- and long-term debt restructuring measures and the third crucial field is precisely the building of a sufficient reserve to secure the country's market. In the first of these three areas, namely the budget and the reforms, the progress made is truly colossal. In particular, I would remind you that in 2015 and 2016 the Greek economy exceeded its target of 0.05% and 0.5% of GDP. They're primary surplus targets. In 2016, more specifically, structural excesses, i.e. excesses that have permanent characteristics and will therefore accompany the Greek economy in the coming years, are close to 3%. Most importantly, this performance was not accompanied by the deep recession that we saw in the corresponding adjustment cases in 2011, 2012 and 2013. What for? Because it is not just a formal process of fiscal adjustment, it is accompanied by profound structural changes in the way the economy works, the collection of taxes and tax compliance. If you want, the basis from which the Ministry of Finance draws tax revenues is extended. I will now go to the other two key areas for the successful completion of the programme and the exit into the markets, the debt issue and the issue of creating an appropriate reserve. Let's see what the Eurogroup's decision of 15 June says. With regard to debt relief, the architecture of relief measures has three levels. Before I go there, I would remind the House that the short-term restructuring measures are already being implemented. Mr Mitsotakis should know that one of these is the stabilisation of interest rates through intervention by the ESM on the markets, the conversion - if you like - of the large part of Greek debt with rolling interest rates on debt at constant rates. In other words, what Mr Mitsotakis is asking for is already being implemented progressively. We now go to the Eurogroup decision and the medium-term debt measures. So three are the distinct levels: The first level is characterised by the average primary surplus of 2% after 2022 and for a long horizon. Let me remind you here that it is significantly lower than what would be compatible with the budgetary pact, the stability and growth rule, without a debt relief. Without a debt reduction, the primary surpluses after 2022 should be at 2.6% for a long time. If we now take the average primary surplus of 2% and, on the other hand, the basic assumption made by the European Stability Mechanism that the growth rate of the long-term economy will be 1.25%, the size of the restructuring of the Greek debt, the debt of the EFSF, that is to say, the prolongation of the maturity of the maturities, but at the same time the period of grace of the interest payments by 12 to 15 years. It's a simple system of three equations with three strangers. When you know the growth rate and know the primary surplus, you can easily calculate the length of prolongations. The first level, therefore, is quite clear. The second level is essentially the reference to the Eurogroup decision in a symmetrical mechanism for adjusting measures to the possible divergences in the growth rate from the basic scenario of 1.25%, that is, if the growth rate is below that provided for by the Ministry of Finance, the Greek Government, the ESS and the European Commission. If the level of debt relief goes to 1%, it automatically increases. It is a very important signal to the markets that regardless of the state of the Greek economy in the medium to long term, the partners are committed to taking all the measures they need to keep gross financial needs below 15%. The third level refers precisely to cases of particularly negative external cloning of the world economy for which the Greek Government is not responsible. In this case, there is also an explicit commitment that the restructuring package will exceed what is described in the Eurogroup of May 2016. Two words about the reserve now. The decision of the Eurogroup of June 2015 also commits that from the next assessment and until the end of the programme, together with the necessary disbursements for the repayment of external obligations and due obligations, the Greek Government, the Greek Government, will take corresponding doses to build the necessary reserve to get out of the programme, from the committee safely. Is the clarity described in the Eurogroup Decision of June 2017 sufficient? I don't think anyone can personally assess it. The most appropriate to assess is markets and credit ratings. With certainty we can say that the cost of lending ten-year bonds and two-year bonds is today at the lowest level since the autumn - winter 2009-2010, i.e. before the country enters a adjustment programme. Moody's credit rating house has already upgraded the country's adept and I hope that this will be the case on 20 July and Standard & Poor's. I would like to remind you, and give me two minutes, Mr President, that the strategy of exiting from the Greek Government's crisis remains unchanged. It is based on fiscal equilibrium, in order to establish credibility, to deviate the cost of borrowing, not only from the state, but through the state, from businesses and banks, so as to stimulate liquidity and take the economy forward, but also from a budgetary balance always in combination with social justice. Already in 2015 to 2017, the budget for support for the poorest, the most vulnerable households has increased from 100 million to 700 million, and with the review of the expenditure we are spending this year, we hope to increase the time to 1.2 billion. We would of course like lower taxation. The medium-term budgetary strategy programme precisely reflects this aim. As long as a financial area is created after the end of the programme, the tax rates for both households and business and property are reduced. We also combine this budgetary strategy with realistic targets after 2022. The truth is that we would like equally low primary surplus targets immediately after the end of the programme from 2018 onwards. We fought about it. We managed to reduce the target of 3.5% to four and not ten years, as Germany wanted and as the ESS so far assumed. But since I am referring to the objectives of the primary surpluses, I would like to say this. I read in Sunday sex that the Chief of Officerial Responsibility in a discussion he had with Mr. Regling developed his own exit plan from the comitology: An attacking reduction in taxation tomorrow, which, if the 2016 IGC is still in force, would lead to a loss of revenue of 4.2 billion, creating a financial space by reducing surpluses. In order to fit 4.2 billion, the target of 3.5% should go to 1.5%. Mr. Regling's reply, according to the paper, was: "But this means much more debt restructuring" and wished Mr. Mitsotakis good luck. The truth is, and I say it in the Qualified Opposition on account of the fact that if you are ever in a position to implement your programme, you will find yourself in the opposite dilemma: Or you will loot the wages and pensions budget along with the social state in order to find the resources of tax reduction - which I still do not believe can be done, even the International Monetary Fund has put a floor on how far the primary expenditure can be reduced - or on the other hand, to fail to meet the primary objectives, leading the country to a new adventure. The government's strategy is difficult, it's painful, but it's fair and it's the only safe exit road map from the crisis. In closing, I would call on the Civic Opposition to abandon the deadlock - I would also say populist - fiscal opposition, to be embedded in the common objective of reducing debt and exit from the crisis. In everything else you can, you are obliged as opposition to make as much opposition as you want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u313	Thank you, Mr. Juliarakis. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Michaloliakos and Mr Leventis will have ten minutes for their denology and will be closed by the Minister of Finance, Mr Euklidis Tsakalotos. Please, Mr. Michaelako, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u314	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteurs - in many introductory forms and with a great deal of irony - on their respect for Greek justice. At the same time that a trial, which lasts two years and continues, was held at the same time as Mr Tsipras and Mr Mitsotakis, had decided that Golden Dawn Members should not be taken to trial and were referred by 2-1 votes, and that is where Mr Tsipras and Mr Mitsotakis, saying that Golden Dawn have evidence of a criminal organisation, made a decision. What do you want with the courts? Remove them. At the same time that you and you, Mr President, have already made a statement on a lady who has been sentenced to 13 years' imprisonment - and I wish they were innocent and acquitted at the court of appeal - she is already doomed, but she has the presumption of innocence, we who are not convicted and who the rapporteur for the year said that we should not be brought to trial, we are guilty. We have once again seen how the Left has dragged the Right, the Central Right, as it likes to say, behind its chariot, in order to split the condemnation of the Golden Dawn. At the centre of the seconds of both the Prime Minister and Mr. Mitsotakis, the Chief of Police Response, the Golden Dawn. Don't fight, gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, liberals and Marxists, neomarxists, left-wing, centre-left, centre-right and others, Golden Dawn is appreciated by those who are rated and its election "clientity" is not offered to unwritten, it is chosen parts of the Greek people. It is no coincidence that the Golden Dawn takes most of the votes in the people's neighborhoods. It is no coincidence that in recent political research on incomes of up to 600 euros, on the poor Greeks Golden Dawn is no longer a third, but a second party. It was very unpleasant what was heard in here. Of course, the Prime Minister said that we have full rights because we are voted on by the Greek people. It's fairy tales. We see that these rights do not apply. We cannot go out on any channel, we have a total blockade, and the National Broadcasting Council is pontio Pilate and says to judge and we have some trade unionists of ERT, who throw the switches when it comes to transmitting a speech of the Golden Dawn. I said it before in my speech and I repeat it. You have made Greece the last Soviet in Europe. It gives me impression: I put in the Minutes two photos of a new man with a bloody face and a girl with a plaster on her hand who broke it with a hammer. Is it that hard to convict? Don't you have the political courage to condemn this barbarity? Oh, no. Of course, I leave what the Prime Minister has said unequivocally, that the left is a movement of peace that was spreading roses, as if we were not aware of the massacre of Colonel Psaros, of the Melilla Gate. All that's not there, it's gone. I'll be fair. Variations have been made on both sides - to be honest - but not from the Golden Dawn. Golden Dawn didn't exist. The Center was the hardest persecutor on the Left. The "Special" against communism, Venizelos, had done so. Sofoulis was a Prime Minister, Kentroos, when the Macronesus opened. And Panagiotis Kanellepoulou of the New Democracy was saying new Parthenon the Macronissus, it wasn't the Golden Dawn. As far as the parastate is concerned, which is shouting and being bred in Exarchia, is the whole constitutional arc affluent? Why not forget that there was also in the days of the New Democracy that had done nothing. I also remember the ministers of the New Democracy, who are 'fishing' blurred towards the national and patriotic area, saying that they will close the Indymedia. Five years were government, no Indymedia closed down, as they did not, over the days they ran with PASOK. I now come to Thessaloniki, where five hundred students recently made a public protest saying that their physical integrity is at stake, that drugs are being trafficked within university asylum, prostitution is being committed and criminalised. We had the outrageous and creepy statement of your Minister, Mr. Gavroglou, that he needs a fragile student movement to deal with this thing. Where did this thing come from when drugs move, when prostitution takes place, need a student movement to stop it? Five days ago members of the Citizens’ Movement of the Centre of Athens sent a letter to the Government on crime, saying they were in danger of becoming neighborhoods whole. Does the Greek people know that the Prosecutors, the Greek justice, have sent forty-seven prosecutors to expel forty-seven buildings and no prosecutor's orders are executed? What if the Constitution protects the property of the Greeks? As long as the parties of the so-called 'democratic arch' or 'constitutional arch' govern, do not hope so. In addition, where the people react you see everywhere Chrysangiites: In Menidi, in Aspropyrgos, in Macedonia, everywhere Chrysangiites. As you do, with the ruin you sow Greece will become Golden Dawn, whether you like it or not. [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] Simple citizens will fight for faith, homeland, freedom. However, let me come to today's debate. "The Memorandum Monod" told us on the left. The proposal of the Golden Dawn is clear: Return to national production. There is no future without a debt complaint, a debt which is illegal and which is demonstrated by the very events that are taking place in this Chamber. Why did you do an examination for Mr. Papantoniou? I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm Where did the armaments loans go? Most of the price of German, French, Greek, English, French, German, Greek, Greek, Italian, Spanish, Portuguese, Spanish, Spanish, Spanish and Swedish. The same as overruns of public works, etc. All of this constitutes the definition of illegal debt, as you said, by January 2015. Greece is a rich country. In particular, the professor of the Department of Geology of the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki Anestis Philippidis said that 2,4 trillions of euros are estimated to be the gross value of Greek mineral wealth. He said that in a statement to the Athenian News Agency. He also stated that from the total mineral wealth we only exploit 0,15%. We have about twenty-four very important minerals, which is an amazing number, considering the extent of Greece, said Mr Philippidis. Instead, what are you doing? You sell everything. We also have the PASOK, for whose conference the 'BIMA' came out with a triumphant title, and so did the 'SEA' - the conflict continues - and told us that they would make a new start. We hope that, within the framework of the new principle, it will not be a change in the name and acquisition of a new VAT system, to waive the debt of EUR 200 million on the part of the party. Because that's what he's whispering about. But when PASOK has the courage to speak, with Papantoniou ready for the Special Court, Tsochazopoulou in full release, the Tsukatou and Mandeli cases open, when we have all this and when these people talk about honesty and progress, then what can one say? It was heard - within the context, of course, of the dispute that has started on the famous question of interference in justice - and that the Golden Dawn is of great interest. Bigger lie than that couldn't be heard. The Golden Dawn was checked to antenna by multiple checks and found clean. It has nothing to do with any great interest or desire. Others have these relationships, and we see them on remote windows, we see it in how the media operates. I would like to know through this Step - another step we do not have - the Greek people that the government of SYRIZA - ANEL, having been obliged to this agreement on 15 June by Mr Soible, with whom he had agreed, has already sold out a hundred unique beaches, the port of Piraeus at 'COSCO' by Chinese comrades, fourteen regional airports at the German 'FRAPORT', Asteras Vouliagmeni, to a group of Turkish interests, the port of Thessaloniki, 'TRAINOSE', Kassiopi in Corfu and others are expected. Previously on the Lagard list. Here was a Minister, Mr. Nikoloudis, in the summer of 2015 and he had been asked by my competitor - who was, then, in prison, if I'm not mistaken - about what will happen with the Lagard list. Mr Nikoloudis had told him that the control mechanisms are not enough to carry out audits. This was in the summer of 2015 and we have summer of 2017. You've had two years and you haven't done anything. Mr. Nikoloudis disappeared, as Mr. Panousis, who wanted to dismantle the State of Exarchates, since as your political secretariat member, Mr. Lambrou, had said, in the contacts in prisons, "He is not ours, he will leave". That's how it happened. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in Greece today the absolute neoliberalism of Thatcher in the face of the neo-communism of Mr Tsipras. At least Thatcher sold at market prices. Mr. Tsipras sells the property of the Greek people a short time ago. Only the 'TRAINOSE', sold 45 million. Finally, we denounce the agreement of 15 June, but we also call on the New Democracy to commit that if it becomes a government, it will denounce it. Otherwise, everything he says is air words, it is hypocritical, it is a micro-policy for votes and nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u315	Mr Leventis, President-in-Office of the Council, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u316	I again welcome the Chamber, the President, the ladies and gentlemen, and the ladies and gentlemen of the House. The Chamber's already tired. There's been a lot of noise. Let me say again that I have not understood what we wanted today, that Mr Mitsotakis said about the Kammenos issue - that was the most essential - and that, when he comes, all the problems will be solved by magic. And the Prime Minister went and remembered until the Lambraki case, Petroula - I don't know what else he remembered - to identify SYRIZA's democratic struggles. Petroula, at least, was a main fighter. I'm sure the parastate ate him. I would like to believe, however, that we have now been through such murders organized by the police themselves, namely, by the services of the state, with the tolerance and support of the state services. So we remembered the old ones. As to how the problems of the country will be solved, whether one comes to invest, no discussion, because with a government hundred and fifty - three seats, some of whom threaten to throw the government down, there will be no serious man to invest. Proof that a Sakellaridis was a member of the SYRIZA and left, but he had ethos and honesty and handed over the seat, like a Catrivan. If they hadn't delivered the seat, Mr. Tsipras would already have collapsed. Therefore, in my view, these are not conditions for investors. You'll be judging. He's going to get slapped a year while you're still staying - I don't know how long you're going to be staying - and he's just gonna stay that a Vassilis Leventis told us. Of course, I understand that abandoning power is not a simple matter. You think he's weak. And the next time I revealed what we discussed with Mr. Tsipras, Mr. Pappas, the Minister, went out and said, "If we wanted to make a government with Mr. Mitsotakis, we would announce it, we would not announce it through Mr. Leventis." But I'm sorry, a government that's been bringing the law of mere analogy for a year. What does it want to have? Government like we have today? Is that what he wants us to have? Did Mr. Tsipras make fun of himself when he brought the bill on simple analogues? Didn't he want a big alliance? That's what I'm wondering. I don't understand. I was disproved by Mr. Pappas when he didn't know what I had discussed with Mr. Tsipras. They went to get me a liar. Mr. Tsipras told me that Mitsotakis doesn't want to. The Mitsotakis voting for the enhanced feels that it is a step before power. And with his popular superiority, where would he accept a government of consensus, a big government? That was said and cannot be disproved. So please also Mr Pappas, whom I have so much appreciation when he does not know what I have discussed with the Prime Minister, do not deny. And I ask, a year ago, when you brought the simple analogy, why did you bring it? To stay this government for four years? You brought her in order to return a page and go to allied governments. Unless you didn't know what you wanted and you just wanted to close the street of Mitsotakis. However, I and the Central Association, which voted for the simple analogue, did not do so to close the path of no Mitsotakis. We did so to return the page of self-restraints and go to consensus governments. Let's explain. I did not have time to comment on the subject of privatisation. Privatisation is imposed precisely because we have a large public, large state. It's not just the size of the public, it's inefficiency. The burden on Greece is not so much the monstrous public - it is also - but that a large percentage does not work, does not offer and hide. Those who hide are the parties, they're the trade unions covered. These are the slow payrolls. There is the problem of Greece. Foreigners insist on all privatizations, because a country that does not improve the situation, a country that does not find the slow-wages and maintains them, the only way is to force it to sell it all out. I do not think foreigners would require such privatizations if they did not know that the political system is protecting the unpaid. It's clear. We're selling everything. What are we going to do? And who's coming? I don't see anyone coming serious. Something is coming up, in all areas. Seekers are coming. There is an example of industry in Yannina, which was purchased - because it was in stock merchandise, raw materials, etc. - very, very cheap, very much below the costs of those sold, and then abandoned, the investment was not completed. He's a fantasy investor. We'll have other cases like this. Because it is very cheap the prices we are forced to sell, we will also have abandonments from investors, which will in the end be based on the fact that they will be left with the land. Because when you're obsessed with it and your plot stays on, you're benefiting from it after a while. It's like a placement of money, not an investment. The issue of the contractors is a little offended by the price of the political world, because we were appointing from the window in a party manner at the various CECE and, at the end, we said, "Don't worry, whoever goes up to the public never goes away". In the end, we confirm that. Then we fortify behind the strikes made by the various parties and the riots - that they are unemployed, that they are ten years old, that they have rights to simulate, that all parties want to help, etc. - and repeats the same little kitten as I know the world. I've been sixty-five years old, and since I feel the world, some have been nominated, and after one, two, three years, some have been permanent. This is done permanently in Greece and then we wonder why we went bankrupt. Do you really believe in this Chamber that the country can come out of memos without investment? Continue with wage and pension cuts and new taxes if they exist - which I hope are not so sophisticated in thinking - some who believe that without investment the country can come out of the memos. If you believe it, sit in power as long as you want. Mr. Mitsotakis, new man, what does he want? He wants to be a vezier in the position of today's vezier. What harm would it be to put back on Greece? He'll get it, too. To say, while I was ready to take the prime minister, I give my hand to build Greece, to show that he is not the same as the unrepentant leaders of their prolongation, but he is someone who innovates, who puts home over the chair. Not a conversation. He's coming here to number us SYRIZA's indifferences. We know them, Mr Mitsotakis, the gratuities of SYRIZA, as we know your disgrace. If we sum up the loathsome things in this Chamber, what gain? Do you think the people, the ten million Greeks, do not know them? Do you think something new was said in this Chamber today? But for one man, for Kammenos, for the others, do you think something new was said? The far right has arrived screaming. The far right has arrived for almost oil. I heard the speech and I disgusted, that is, that they are right. And what do they propose? Get out of Europe. Being Bolivia suggests, but they feel they are right, because they can be right in the depth of their heads in some things. The political system is responsible for the fate of the country. Unless you think the country has arrived here without any responsibility, if you believe that there is irresponsibility from the political world. That's where we got the far-right percentages. I don't know how much. I don't think it'll have a future. Fortunately, all over Europe voices were louder and calmer. However, just that it came to take away percentages from the New Democracy - a 5%, 6%, how much it arrived - it shows the inability of the New Democracy. Why was Karamanlis the old man's ability, who was it? That he could also collect, and people of moderate and extreme right under the same umbrella. That was the value of the old man's Karamanlis. Of the younger leaders, no one succeeded. No one did this thing. However, what I ask this Chamber - and I ask this House - is that no investment, just with these people, a 'COSCO', an Ivan, whose origins are questioned by a Marinakis, if they are investors, can be taken out of the crisis and we can all live in this Chamber and get three hundred prizes each.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u317	Thank you, Mr. Leventis. The Minister for Finance, Mr Eukleidis Tsakalotos, has the floor for the end of the meeting. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u318	Thank you, Mr President. The debate today, in a way, is about the economy and the agreement of 15 June, and the first question is how does one consider this agreement? One way to compare it is by the agreement that did not finally come out of the previous Eurogroup, which was on 22 May. Although Mr Mitsotakis told us that the institutions and the IMF agreed to each other and gave us the plate, the truth is that we rejected the agreement of 22 May. This Agreement has been rejected. So one thing we have to say is why we rejected it and if that agreement is better. It is a comparison and the negotiating team and Alexis Tsipras did not agree on this agreement. Before I say the second benchmark, I would like to say something about the negotiating group, since we are in a country where compliments and 'thank you' do not think they have a great deal of offer. This negotiating group, which also had political officials, but also too many civil servants, worked very hard. And because there are too many things in this Chamber - and inside and outside - about civil servants, I have to tell you that dozens of them, not only from my Ministry, but from the Ministry of Labour, the Ministry of Olga Gerovasili, the Ministry of Development, the Ministry of Energy, were working with too much zeal to get something better. There were cases where there were Saturday nights that were speaking at our level, and they were going, because we were changing the subject, and they were going to prepare new texts for 6:00 Sunday morning, and not once did these people - who were mocking their civil servants - raise no objections. And we were working all the way to the end. The second benchmark is in relation to previous agreements. And I want to start with this. In 2012, in the previous government agreement, there was a disadvantage, which was not the government nor the then institutions, that the debt sustainability was on the debt reserve. In other words, both the IMF and you were more concerned with the debt ratio as a percentage of GDP. Nor had the IMF then changed to look more at the flows and the financial needs. This has had a very big problem for you - which I am not saying was the problem of you - that it was very difficult to find a solution. Because after Germany had stopped every word, but other countries, for nominal haircuts, this did not allow for many other options. So how would debt be considered viable in the previous government? With unrealistic assumptions, surpluses and growth rates. It was thus considered that debt could be sustainable. I remind you that in your last medium-term, in May 2014, in Table 2.4 we have 4.2% primary surpluses for the next five years, and I remind you that the IMF then said that debt is sustainable, because it had no other option, because it was within the programme. You know, in Britain, in the Profumo scandal, where a lady had an affair with the Minister of Shipping, Lord Profumo, and with someone who worked at the Soviet Embassy at that time and was afraid that in bed, among other things, they were speaking in state secrets, said Lord Profumo: "I certainly do not know the lady and I have not shared my bed." Mandy Rice - Davis answered at that time: "But that would say, what would he say, would he say otherwise?" So the IMF had no choice at that time to say anything different. He could not say that the debt was unsustainable. But how was debt sustainable? With cases of development and assumptions about the primary surpluses, which everyone knew, and the IMF staff - and that is why Christine Lagard has been having such a problem over the past two years - that these cases were unrealistic. So our strategy from the beginning was different. Our strategy was never to say that debt is sustainable and to see what growth rates and what primary surpluses we can have to make it sustainable, but to try to make it truly sustainable with reasonable surpluses and reasonable assumptions about growth rates. That's why it's so much key that 2% we've tied up after 2020-2021. It's a 2% key, it's the anchor, because what does that 2% say? First of all, it gives reality to medium-term debt measures. For if one of the measures is zero to 15 years of expansion of the weighted average of debt maturation, now with 2% that has a real meaning, because it has two parameters that give it a real meaning: firstly, that it cannot be zero, some relief will be in debt when you have 2% of the primary surplus and you have, secondly, 15% of the financial needs. However, it is also anchoring something else. ‘It annulls’ the measure for the development clause. Why does it "anchored" it? Because now every time the growth rate is down, we will have more debt relief. There is no third variable here to hover, which is the primary surpluses and someone to tell you: "But why should I give you greater debt relief, take higher primary surpluses." Because there are only two variables, which is why the Prime Minister said that the measure should be balanced, precisely because this variable is stable, that it will be 2% of the primary surplus, so every time growth is reduced, we will have more primary surpluses. And what did Mr. Mitsotakis say about that? He said: 'But, what do you say to me, that if we have a great deal of growth, we will get a little less debt?' Sure. Because I always listen very carefully to Mr. Mitsotakis, as soon as he said that, I made some rough calculations. It is obvious that with 40% growth every year, the debt will be put off in 2027, 60% will be reached in three years, in 2020. With 10% growth, 0%, we'll wipe out the entire debt by 2046, and by 2029 we'll reach 60%. With 5% growth, 0% will get it in 2068 and 60% in 2044. What did you tell us now? That we don't want growth? Obviously, if we have very good growth, we do not need so much debt relief. Is there someone who thinks this is unreasonable? But what you didn't have to say is that we didn't guarantee that. Obviously, if we have great growth, we will have less relief, but we have secured the bad scenario, which we will not have so much growth, and we will get something more. That's what we tied up. This - you will remember me for the QE - is to help Mario Draghi and the ECB put us in the QE too, not soon, but we will enter for that reason. I promised you something in the previous debate here. I told you that the big difference - and wait and thus assess it - is that in our own solution there will be no 'if newessary', 'if necessary'. Look at what the Eurogroup communiqué says. The Eurogroup communiqué has the 'if necesssary' for long-term debt measures, which are neither the medium-term nor the growth clause. But it has a third part, which is the long-term debt measures, which have the same wording that you had in November 2012. There it says that if short-terms are not enough, and if medium-terms are not enough and if the growth clause is not reached, then the Eurogroup is ready to think about something else, with discretion and debate. This means that the other measures are not 'if necesssary', 'if necessary'. All that remains to be calculated is how much it takes through this algorithmisation we've already explained to you. So compared to November 2012, it's a much better deal. It's a much better deal than that on May 22, where there was no lockdown of 2%. Now let's go see what happens from now on, because the third way to assess whether the deal is good or not is with what perspective it opens you up. This is the third way to say that the agreement is good or is not good. I will not say again - even though the Prime Minister of the country was begging me - for the EUR 80 billion. I cannot help explaining it to you third and fourth and fifth times. This debate was held six months ago. We had a text explaining in detail the part concerning debt recycling, the part you cannot compare, predict growth, what happened, etc. That's what we've been through. What path opens with this deal? The road that opens in the short term is exiting the markets, so exiting the program and reducing surveillance. We are fully aware that there will be a reduction in surveillance, because the framework agreed by the People's Party and the Socialist Party in Europe has very tough surveillance, which we would not like. We would like a different Europe with either less surveillance or surveillance with different rules and with different objectives and social objectives. But I think we will soon have an exit program on the markets, not a "when to be", and "we'll see what will happen", as you and a month later, the interest rate was higher, and so it was much harder to get out of the market for a second and third time, so that the markets could understand your plan for the next year. That'll open the way to get out of the program. At the same time, our main programme is the long term, i.e. how the development that comes will be sustainable. Don't invest growth isn't coming. You know growth will come. The debate must be about how it will be sustainable. Again, you will lose, as when you say that the deal will not be closed and that we will get nothing about the debt. All the evidence says that growth will come. It's called export data. The figures say this about increased time and industrial production and production in manufacturing and sales. Don't invest in this. To make a serious exchange of views on how this development will be sustainable beyond the programme. Do not tell us that you will go ahead with the reforms, without telling us what these reforms are. Where do you put the emphasis? Nor should you tell us that we want to go ahead with better policies, without telling us what these policies are. Don't tell us you'll negotiate lower primary surpluses. I imagine you will not negotiate with what I heard last week in the Committee on Economic Affairs, which you said you want to end once and for all with the Supreme Court. If you think you're going to the Eurogroup and you're going to tell them "let's make a deal. You will give us 1% surplus and we will end up with the Fund," if this is your strategy, you will find things very dark. I give an advice, not to you, but to everyone: For all politicians, whether they are ministers or ministers in local or community, they are usually vulnerable to a big mistake: When they see something new, they think it is just the reproduction of the old one. They cannot predict and appreciate and evaluate what is new. In other words, it's a natural predisposition. We all have it. It's not just you. And we're doing it, and we're having a hard time finding out what the new one is. But it is very important to see what the new one is. We have to have the mechanisms to understand the new one. Because if we don't have the mechanisms to figure out the new one, we won't understand why Bernie Sanders came so close to winning Clinton either because Trump came out or they still have power, and Wilders and Lepen. Indeed, in the Eurogroup, the right-wing finance ministers themselves said that 'whoever thinks we're done with this phenomenon is being tricked'. We didn't say so, but the right finance ministers. Why did Corbin get more votes than Blair had taken when he won the election? We will make systematic mistakes and we will not be able to analyse the reality of the new phenomenon. This new phenomenon, in order to analyse it and go forward, cannot be done with what I hear from Mr Leventis and Mrs Gennamas for an universal technocratic government. Because to understand this new one, you have to understand that this is where we are confronting values, programmes, strategies and policies. That is what we see in front of us throughout the spectrum. Obviously, in many of these phenomena I described, I have no sympathy. In other things, I have some sympathy. In order to be able to make this policy, we need to know what the new phenomenon is. The new phenomenon is SYRIZA. You're making a big mistake to underestimate. I remember Mr. Venizelos, two or three months after we went to CSU saying it's a bubble, SYRIZA will blow up and never become a government. He said that two months later, because he couldn't analyze and thought that what's new is just the regeneration of the old man. But SYRIZA, along with other powers, is the new one. It's the new one in two areas. One sector is in investment. Don't believe your rhetoric. Look at the investments. Look at how the NSRF works, how we create new funding tools and how we integrate into this social economy. Look at how we learn from things that have nothing to do with the economy. For us, 'documenta 14', which is in the field of culture, which we do not think we helped them, did it by themselves - Adam Simpsik and his team need a applause from all over the House for what is being done - they showed how, with small interventions in culture you can create the resources that are taking place slowly. I predict that in five and ten more years' time we will discuss the impact of 'documenta 14' on art and the economy in Greece. The same is done in the real economy with these new tools. The same will happen with the superstition. You did not understand that it was a defeat and a compromise between the excess and we reversed it, and we now have a chance to restructure businesses and make use of public property and incorporate it into our regional and sectoral policy. You don't understand, because you don't see the new one. Now we're going to education. I'm very proud to be on a cabinet that was Nikos Friend and Costas Gavroglou. Listen, because you're going to lose again and you're going to think these two ministers just wanted to go back. But these ministers are in the debate on education and not just on university. As a universityman, I want to say two or three words. I would also like to say about university education, because there is a discussion about education everywhere. We're not where we were with Mrs Diamantopoulou. Not here, not everywhere they worry about universities and society that the private sector is coming into research. Everywhere the world deals with the fact that poor students don't go to the universities, because they think they don't have access to and they have to get loans and it's not the university for them. Everywhere they feel that education should be a collective social project and this is lost and they discuss whole societies in Britain and America about how education can be improved. Inside this current is the Friend and Gabroglou who are trying to do something different. I'm telling you that you'll lose the ball if you think that what Gavroglou and Friend now want to do about education or other areas is just to bring in the old one. They want to bring the new one, but on new terms for a education with collective values, where education is not just for development. Education has an autism. Education is not just for business to go better. In fact, let me tell you the paradox of the happiness the ancients were saying. They say if you want to be a happy man, the only thing you don't do is sit around and think about how you're gonna be happy. You're having a relationship, you're having a hobby, and you're becoming a hobby. If you want the Greek economy to be a success, you do not aim for education to be immediate for growth, but indirectly. So I think this agreement sets the conditions for these debates. Obviously also for education and development you will object, but that is now the debate: with which social groups we can organise a better education, a better development that serves the world better. One last thing, and that's what I'm gonna close to, and I'm gonna say one thing out of the question. Immigrants are people and when you kill immigrants, it doesn't mean you're not violent and you're not with terrorism, because that's what Golden Dawn does. It also kills immigrants, and for us these immigrants are human beings. You can't say they only kill the Bridge, no matter how tragic that was. It's a barbaric organization and Mr. Mitsotakis in Politico acquitted them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u319	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the pre-dated order under Rule 143 of the Rules of Procedure has been concluded, at the initiative of the Chief of Staff and President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis, at the level of the Heads of State, on the economy, the decisions of the Eurogroup and the commitments made by the Government. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-03-S1-commons.u320	With the consent of the House at 18.30 p.m. the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Tuesday 4 July 2017, at 18.00 p.m., on the subject of this House's work, according to the agenda distributed.
