ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICE: According to Parliament's 29-3-2017 authorisation, its minutes of 23 July 2017, with regard to the vote on the entire draft law: ‘Integration into the national legislation of Directive 2014/92/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 July 2014 on the comparability of fees linked to payment accounts, the change of a payment account and access to payment accounts with basic features and other provisions’]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS Nine questions will be debated today. The ninth will be discussed under number 619/20-3-2017 in the second cycle of the Parliamentary Attica of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Paraskevi Christophilopoulos to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the reappointment of importers of higher education on the basis of academic and rational criteria. The Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Mr. Gavroglou, will answer. Mrs Christophilopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I believe that you will agree with me that the number of students at universities will be good to relate not only to the institutions' carrying capacity, as they themselves identify it, but also to the long-term development planning of the country, without overlooking the fact that education is self-worthy and some schools must exist, despite their not directly linked to the labour market. This given, Minister, is really regrettable that for the first time there has been such an inconvenience from a reduction in importers, which has been carried out in the same school year as the whole of Greece. As you know in the past, reductions in the same school year have been made, not that it is good. We should change it and the educational institutions should send us their proposals for next year. But there has never been such an outcry. Do you know why? Because this reduction was as surprising as I would say without any logic. You went drastically to reduce high-demand schools, achieve this, and at the same time other schools have no reductions or even increases. So, is it possible for students preparing for high-demand schools to learn such drastic reductions only for medical? It equals, as you are told by the Democritus University, the abolition of two classes of medicine. I'll file the letter, although I'm sure you have it. I therefore think that you should revise this decision, and within the time that any reductions and increases will be made much more rationally, much more calmly and without an inconvenience, in which you are unfortunately dealing with the issues of education as a whole. Because the previous Minister, Mr Baltas, also started with an increase in importers, which again did not make sense. I would therefore like you to reply to me: First, do you intend to revise this decision, which is surprising and has no real rationality? Secondly, are you prepared to link a wider dialogue on education - not emblematic - with how to enter universities, but with the way in which students' applications are made, so that we can go to streamlining the system? Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u3	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Madam President. I thank Mrs Christophilopoulou for giving me the opportunity to put the role of introductory examinations on the substance. We have said on several occasions that these are inconsistent, but examinations which do not attest to any pedagogical, exhausting young children, and many times especially in the theoretical sciences, the sole objective is how much one can memorize - and a word for word - texts. In Mrs Christophilopoulou's text, I see a strange contradiction because she blames the government for reducing the number of people in central universities and that this is against democracy, because - as the text says - we will bring a lot of people to the central universities. Since when is the decline in central universities against atrocity? I don't understand that. With the transcriptions, there's a problem. We have said publicly that we should rethink it, and here it is a glorious field, so that the other parties can also bring us their proposals. Our aim is to abolish the introductory examinations and to enable children to enter the high school certificate and the rating they will have there, as in many countries, and that will bring about a normality, re-entry of high school, high school, and of course, families and children will not live with this incredible stress. Now, with regard to formality, it must be clear that we have unequivocally respected the legal procedures. The law says that by 15 March we must make this decision and have adopted it by 15 March. Secondly, we have tried to comply partially with the decisions of the schools and the republican authorities. It can’t be that rector authorities and departments say the first and the state put twice as many times as many times as three times as many. There are infrastructural issues, but in addition to everything, there are quality issues in education. We didn't hear the universities, because the universities too many times are too much to want a few students. We tried to get into a process of rationalisation, because our main criterion is not that we want many doctors, that we want good doctors, we want good history, we want good lawyers. That doesn't mean a few people have to get in. People need to get in well prepared and then train even better. Now, in order to be able to do this, there must be a brave decision to upgrade the ESDP. As long as vocational education does not gain a prestige in our society, as long as there is no fundamental prospect of establishing jobs with European standards, etc., it will be very difficult to reduce the pressure on universities. Without wanting to be a personal confrontation, you accuse us that we did so just before the exams and upset the students. To be honest with you, I understand the psychological issue, and I respect it, but the state must operate in laws. It says, therefore, that the Minister decides by 15 March what the number will be. When you were the Deputy Minister of Education - and it is not personal again, it is a matter of the political leadership of that time - in 2011, you announced the number of importers two days before the start of the tests. Two days! And not only did you announce, but from the eighty-four thousand, you took the number to seventy-four thousand. Ten thousand reduction in 2011! Not in the middle of the year, but two days ago! And you know where you cut? From parts of tourism, for example, from our heavy burden, it is supposed to be industry. The decision was not to enter the tourism divisions. If we consider that rationalization, I don't know what I can say. And finally, there is a decision of the School of Medicine at the Democrat University. I want you to submit it to the Minutes, because we're also going to submit to the minutes the decisions of the other medical schools that disagree vertically with the decision of the Democritus University of Medicine. As far as the Democrat University is concerned, we will make very serious announcements to the Ministry by the end of the week, because there are situations that have now escaped control of legality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u5	Mrs Christophilopoulou has the floor for her dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, you didn't answer me. You have turned through the written text, which obviously the central sections are the ones with high demand, and through the opposition to the opposition - a classic method of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government - so that you do not respond. But I don't want to make any personal attacks, either. It's not just the press and legality, Minister. There is both the substance and the consistency of words and works. On February 3, 2017, you told the Athenian News Agency: “The position of the Ministry is that there is no possibility of the admissions to universities being reduced”. One day earlier you had something related again, more enriched, to CNN Greece. So where is the consistency of words and works? Secondly, I will submit to the Minutes a table showing the enormous differences within a year. Have you ever wondered why in 2011, despite the fact that it was the year the squares of the indignant, where along with other anti-democratic forces, and SYRIZA, did not rise up? It was much softer to decide and it concerned very low demand schools and did not cause anxiety to anyone. I am not saying that the whole system is right, and here I am responding to what I say and what you have told me. If you really want to change the system, then why did you fly into the trash any process with enough political consensus? Your party was never involved in dialogue and now you are doing them as you wish. But you have thrown out an entire attempt at a comprehensive reform that was going toward the single reinstatement and tried to bring back part of it, Mr. Friend, Mr. Baltas smashed it. Excellency is a reggetting. Today we hear from twenty-eight SYRIZA Members that there has been no 'world conduct'. Listen. It was us, PASOK, that we abolished the inspector in schools. But that's what you know is a measure that's outdated and that's not true. What are we doing? We're in school, aren't we? I would like to reply to you, Minister, by submitting information to your other argument, because you spoke and told me about infrastructure, that we must take into account the proposals of the institutions and infrastructures. I will present in the minutes a table in which it appears at the largest university in the country, at the University of Athens, that in schools that have increased student participation... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Madam President, because it is on the substance, I would like for one or two minutes your tolerance. So because there, in these schools, such as Physical and Chemical Participation in laboratories is compulsory and there are many laboratories, there we have increased up to 40% -46% compared to the institution proposal. So what you said is not true, that you have heard the proposals from the universities. You did what you do in all your politics in SYRIZA, selectively, according to your interest, you have chosen the schools you wanted to drastically, without any, once again, consultation or discussion. I will submit another table that has your reductions over time and I will also present the Mother's invitation, which invited you to see how the children pass. So you say in the words - because it is nice to say - to abolish the tests. We should remove them. That takes time, he wants consultation, he wants substance, he wants preparation, which you do not do, as he proved yesterday, with the unscrupulous amendment to special treatment teachers who throw them in the trash, as it seems today that the way in which your Government reduces and increases the number of people who entertain is a balloon that rises up and blows up without any sense. So I want you again to answer what you have not answered, because you have reverted to my written text. So answer me: What do you intend for all this stuff that has risen up and I do not remember being such a bamboo until it was only when the junta - and then there was no one to talk, why was it a junta - abolished a lesson in a beam where then it was another system and another regime? So I don't remember such an outcry. The outcry of the junta period, unfortunately, was a silent outcry. It could not be expressed because of the lack of democracy. Do you intend, Minister, to revise this decision? We as a party can participate in any structured and coordinated dialogue, not there and as it appears every time. Are you in the mood to remove it and to review it together? My proposal would be to give the foundations completely. You're right, I don't like zeroing or plundering. However, since institutions do know that over time the Ministry of Education has loaded them up more students, they often ask for much less. If, therefore, the institutions are allowed to really ask the Ministry of Education to have only a 10% increase, then we can really have the universities to speak with the language of absolute truth, because they will trust us, the political system will be trusted, we will agree on something and there will be no this "wrape-wrecked". Thank you for your tolerance, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u7	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Madam President. I really can't watch you. I cannot follow you because you raised all the issues, from the indignant 2011 ones - which you said were not democratic, unprecedented claim, in my opinion - to the high-demand schools. But let us note some things calmly. Don't sow panic. There's no rise, nothing. There's a rationalization. The state based on specific criteria has made a number of decisions, as I suspect you also made them when you dropped by ten thousand the number of importers - from eighty-four thousand to seventy-four thousand - two days before the examinations. So we have also made these decisions. You said about some interview I gave. I want to remind you that I didn't just say it in this interview, but I told it in an interview a few days later. I still believe the same thing. The small number of students is not an academic criterion. Any teacher can tell you that. That's not the point. Obviously, it is not a criterion of academicity that labs bend over and over the amphitheaters. It's completely obvious. So no one wants to reduce students. The battle for the quality of education must not be degenerated into battle for the number of trainees. One is that. Secondly, this year from forty - three thousand five hundred we went to the forty - two thousand five hundred. It is a reduction of one thousand admissionees in all schools, when we have 11 other sections that had been abolished under the "ATHENA" project and by decision of the presidents of the TEIs, we have not again received students, although we have taken nine other sections, respecting again the decisions of the presidents of the TEIs. Can we talk about something else? What do you want? Tell us. Do you want us to increase the number of people admitted to the schools of so-called high demand, namely polytechnics, legal and medical? Is it right for higher education to be between high demand and low demand schools? Does this give a homogeneity to higher education? So let us not play at the moment with the anxiety of children and their families.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u9	You play.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u10	That's not helping.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u11	Please answer me and not ask me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u12	Look, you say everyone stood up and anti-democratic forces along with SYRIZA in 2011 made the protests.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u13	Democrats? Chrysayides?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u14	Don't interrupt me. When you said that anti-democratic forces along with SYRIZA in 2011 made their protests and resistance to the government, and it makes you impression at that time why no one was upset and upset now, it means that, in any case, there is a very loose relationship with what has been said in society. So I say that we must proceed in this way at the moment, while respecting a small percentage of the sections. We should get into a process. I disagree that the decision on who is going to be in the absolute sovereignty of the universities must be made. We should be in a university consultation with the state and of course find an algorithm. However, this must be done in a context of study and occupations. I will reply to Mr Kegeroglou later on matters relating to professional rights and professions. It is one of the most serious issues that we do not know at all. Now, because you hurt two things that you had no reason to hurt them, don't think I don't want to answer. Let me tell you about the subject of conduct, cosmopolitanity and cosmopolitan. I hope that, when we bring this House the provision for the abolition of the conduct, you will vote for it. This is a completely anachronistic measure, a measure that has been used against both the left and the very creative citizens of this country.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u15	Who's putting world conduct in universities and schools?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u16	So I say that we will bring in a provision to abolish this completely anachronistic provision on conduct. And I come to the last on special education. And here, then, I would like you to be more careful. There are currently two sections in the Greek universities, one in the University of Macedonia and the other in the University of Thessaly, which in their title have the words "special treatment".
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u17	Their title?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u18	Let me finish, my colleague. So in their title they have that phrase too. In fact, in Volos the title is quite different from that in the University of Macedonia. These people had the opportunity, they had the right to go to the tables. So one had this very strange phenomenon: someone who has finished a close sector, postgraduate in special education - because, as you know, a huge number of graduates and doctors are not the object of which you obtained a degree, but in a broader context for a very specific subject - and being down on the list of someone who had obtained a degree from these two sections. So you had people who ended up at the same time, graduated and doctored in special education, had professional experience, and these people on the list were underneath someone who had obtained a degree from these two departments. We do not think this is fair because it is a violation of the principle of equality. That's not happening! We have therefore said to strengthen, with molecules, the Members who have received a degree from these two departments so that there is a level playing field. Can I tell you something else? You are wrong to have this dispute and, in any case, this feeling was created yesterday in the House when everyone was hired as substitutes. Because the needs are enormous. Last year we made ten thousand recruitments, and this year we'll make the same number. Therefore, everyone will be hired. But let them finally be recruited on equal terms in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u19	Next is the third with number 652/27-3-2017, a top-level question by Hercules Iraklios of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Vassilios Kegeroglou again to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs Mr.Gavroglou, on the recognition of the professional rights of TEI graduates. Here, Mr Kegeroglu, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Minister, allow me to correct you for what you have just said. In PAMAK, we have a department of education and social policy, a special education course, and Volos has a postgraduate and special education department. It's different from what you said. And now I come to the question. You have, in fact, recently adopted the decision to introduce some seventy thousand importers into universities, polytechnics and TEIs, forty-two thousand five hundred in universities and twenty-six thousand five hundred in the TEI. And we need to have these young people who are going in, to those who are already in, but also to the older people who have graduated, to have a specific and clear roadmap for their professional career. In my question, therefore, which has been tabled since 7 March, I seek to contribute to the promotion of the process of defining professional rights. And it must be said that there had been the adoption of the presidential decrees provided for by Law 1404. However, these departments have also been involved with the Council of State and a process is under way by June and the administration will have to comply. But we have to say that setting up the committee about two weeks ago is an important step, which will be both valuable and effective if the committee finally completes its work. Because if he stays in the middle, as was done with other committees in the past, then we really will have a problem. In this sense, therefore, I would like you to answer and let us know, in order to be informed through the House, and the students concerned, and all the students, which departments have already sent the business rights contour, how much remains still to be done in order to arrive at legislation. As far as I understand it, and your position is similar to that of the ETF, the presidential decree does not go any further - even though it may be considered safer in terms of law, because it has the opinion of the Council of State - because frequent changes of ministers, responsibilities, etc. They're turning them back and we're starting over again. And your view is that it must go through with law. In fact, I shall refer to the proposal for a law put forward by the ETUC, because it has not been submitted by parliament, it is a very good job that has been done and I think it will contribute. So, let's see how we move on to this important issue for graduates' professional rights.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. Here, Mr. Gavroglou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Kegeroglu, I am truly pleased about the way and the content of your question. There's no postgraduate department. There can be no postgraduate section, obviously it was by mistake that you said so, but let us not deal with this matter anymore. Look, one of the two, three most serious issues is being raised in relation to education: this uncertainties regime which have thousands of graduates in terms of their professional rights. Indeed, it is a complex issue, because it is not a purely professional issue, it is also a question of qualifications with which, in any case, a person can exercise his professional duties. You can understand here that this has led to a skilled society. This is an issue and social, it is an issue and ideological, it is a matter of mentality, and I am truly sure that in your own area of responsibility there are various people coming and the way in which they refer to other social groups does not pay tribute to either ones or the others. Here, then, there is a situation - and I have very positive indications from the Technical Chamber of Greece as to what I will say to you - and I call on people to sit on the same table who think that their professional rights are conflicting and trying to find solutions rather than coming to political leaderships and to be interclassified. I did a very good meeting with the Greek Chamber of Technical Chamber of Commerce and I have hopes - I'm sure - that we will move forward and tell you how. We must both agree, however, that such centrifugal tendencies in society undermine democracy. I am pleased that you consider the step taken in the committee to which you have referred and which will actually finish its work immediately. So what did we do? Of about four hundred sections of universities and of the TEI, ninety - five, half do not have professional rights or qualifications. This is an unacceptable regime, which is not today, and is now whole decades, no one has sat on a table to consult them. What did we tell them? Instead of the state saying Section A of this TEI should have these qualifications and Section B of this university, the others should consult each other as areas that cure the same subject of knowledge. For example, there are eight sections of electrical engineers at the TEI. These departments have sat on a table and said we children as electricians - engineers of the TEI, we believe that these should be our qualifications, these must be our rights. So did a lot of other departments. And at university, I want to tell you, the five sections of physics, the five sections of chemistry that we have all over Greece in the universities sat on the same table. Result: Of the hundred ninety-five sections in two and a half months we have proposals from the hundred fifty. So there's been a solid step forward. What we are doing now: we have a committee to which there are lawyers, experts for European law, and we take these proposals that have been sent to us by the departments. I insist: not every single one, but every cognitive region, which is sometimes cured by three sections, other than five, sometimes by eight, etc. So we take these and compare them to the European acquis. And we say: here's the alpha specialty in Greece. In Europe, what rights does it have? The rights that have arisen from a corresponding curriculum? If it is yes, then we will proceed immediately to the legislature. Right away. Now. If there are differences, we will consult the chambers and chambers. For the time being, it is interesting that these differences are minimal. The third question is what happens if there are no qualifications for specific professions in Europe. Then we will take three countries - we take Portugal, France and Germany - compared to each other, we will find out what is going on there again, and we will compare our own. So at the moment, when we have received proposals from a hundred and fifty parts of the ninety-five which are pending - and let us make an appeal to us to send their proposals and the rest - out of what is in some forty cognitive areas, we will start from the easy to get to the toughest. We also hope that in the draft law to be consulted and, in the case of postgraduate and higher education, we will be able to settle this situation slowly, including, let us say, relatively easy specialties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u23	Ladies and gentlemen, I have left you time to go unrestricted. Make an effort, please. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, let me say that the universities, the polytechnics, the TEIs of our country with their problems, their omissions and regardless of the assessments made by international organisations, are evaluated by society and the economy itself, not only in Greece, but also in Europe. No graduate in TEIs, university, polytechnics in European context, of course, are behind other graduates in other countries. That's why they find a job when they're hosting. They don't find our place, though. And that must, at this time especially of the problems and the crisis, concern us whether something is wrong from there, from now on, from the university. Because we're constantly asking for a solution within the university, inside the TEI, in the polytechnics. The design. The definition of the professional rights of all graduates is therefore a very important issue. My question, of course, today concerns the award of professional rights to graduates at the TEI, because it is a charge that the economy plays an important role. All graduates and all departments play an important role, but particularly graduates of TEIs have an important role in the economy. And if there are gaps in the professional rights of university graduates and polytechnics, this is a matter of modernising these rights and extending them. But there's a framework. And for new sections only there's a gap and they're not set yet.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u25	Let me help you, Mr. Kegeroglu. The Act obliges the new departments to say beforehand their qualifications. In the direction you're talking about. Just know that, at least...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u26	Since it was found that when the process was left after there was a huge problem, this provision was introduced, which was very right.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u27	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u28	So I come to the subject of TEIs. Let me say that the example of the mechanics or electricians you said is a good example, because they have done all that work, which it needs. In fact, I meant to mention the example of electricians and a whole range of university engineers. What has to be cleared out in all directions is that here they do not define a professional right to take each other's work from the misery, but to see how in opening this economy they will all have objects, depending on their cognitive objects, depending on what they have learned in the division from which they graduated. So what's the cognitive field of the alpha department? He will tell us, of course, and the opinion is dominant in the department and from there on, the connection with what is actually happening or in the economy will give the contour. So I don't want to make suggestions. However, I think that, where the issues and drafts are already processed, we must begin, regardless of whether they are difficult or not. There is already a proposal that I will present to you in the Minutes of Parliament, by the EUTEM. I said a proposal for a law, because it has not been done under the parliamentary procedure, but it has been submitted to the Ministry. So this proposal is very important. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It's a job the state should have done and it hasn't done. It's the subject of the committee. Let us begin with this, let us see the sections that are within this proposal and, if all of them have been sent, move forward. To make it clear from the outset that everything will be determined by rules and that the prospects of diplomats are not down - if they think they are down - but upwards. And the prospects - to say it differently, because I do not like to score up or down - are not to tighten the circle of rights, professional rights and therefore of activity, but to open up. And so we will have a specific circle, based on the cognitive object of these people, another cycle of other graduates, other diplomats, and I think it can go well. Now overlap, of course, there will be, the sectiones. But we are interested in the prospect. So I would like you to take note of the proposal for a law. On the issues which have been involved in the Council of State, I think that in advance and because of this involvement, we must begin with the process, which concerns the sections for which we are involved in the Council of State. I think that the debate on the three-member compliance council is in June and we should have given our answer as a state, you as a government, we as a parliament until then. It's a very good job that's done. I invite you to take advantage of it. Of course, I should like to say that what you are writing here in a post - and I am sure you would say it - at the UCLAF conference - TEI that once it comes to taking a step forward, MPs, ministers, friends, relatives, best friends, etc., to raise matters, I think that you have said so clearly and so. If it is clear, then, that the issue is not a syndicate, that we do not want to make a ruse between one and the other, but we call on the people, the young children to come to study, our obligation to fulfil this task, since we invite them to enter the TEIs, the universities and the polytechnics and their degrees to have the same recognition of professional rights. The question of the economy, namely how it goes in our country or in Europe to work here or in Europe, is another big chapter, which also evade the responsibility of the Ministry of Education. Others must do other things, so that young children can find work at their place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u29	Minister, before you get the floor to make an announcement, I see that you're all taking a lot of time. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House forty students and students and two attendants of teachers from the Gymnasium of Kounopidians Chania (first section). The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u30	Mr. Kegeroglu, I began to worry about how many things we agree with your speech today.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u31	You'll have annoyed by SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u32	I think SYRIZA with this stuff isn't bothered. It is usually annoyed with things for which there is no self-criticism about why there has been outstanding issues for decades and now we need to make sure that we resolve these loose ends and do some new things as well. I fully agree with you that universities and TEIs are not only evaluated through academic processes. They're appreciated by society too. Here is one of the big problems. As long as the consciousness of society at TEI goes to the children of a lower God, society cannot then upgrade the graduates. He doesn't want them because he thinks they're secondary. That is why I also said in my reply to Mrs Christophilopoulou that our aim is to further develop the TEI opportunities in our country. I fully agree with you that it is not the job of the higher education institutions to solve the unemployment issue. Higher education institutions must train our children, they must train them to be citizens who face a modern world and they must also give them professional opportunities. That is why we set up the National Council for Education and Human Resources a month ago. For the first time, there is such a council that the educational bodies are with the productive bodies to see the needs of the professions, to see the prospects of the professions. We've got too many departments training for a extinct professional specialty, there's no more. That's what we need to see how we change them. Here we have a Council which can play this advisory role in the state. I agree with you that in the matter of resolving professional rights it is not who will press who to get the other person's job. You can't solve professional rights and strengthen this civil war mentality that often exists. That is why I am pleased that you agree with the procedure that we have started, that is to say, the opinions of the sections that treat the same cognitive object that we compare them with the European acquis and that we shall proceed to the immediate establishment of these qualifications and professional rights. To come to the end of the ETem theme. There's a problem that's been dragging away for decades. You know that. It's not today. It is a controversy about the rights of engineers who receive a degree from the polytechnics of our universities and engineers who graduate from the TEIs. Chambers have been involved here, mentalities involved, clubs, graduates, everything. This bucket is not easy to solve. What I said before is that I had an excellent debate with the Technical Chamber, an excellent debate with the presidents of the TEIs and an excellent debate with the prefectures of the universities that have polytechnics. Everyone's converging to finding a solution. The proposal and the preparation made by the EUTEM is an excellent job. We have to take into account European acquired, polytechnics, chambers, TEIs and find a consensual solution. I said to them, "Start up, find a solution within the European achievements, and I will do everything possible to get through this House." I understand it's hard, but they're starting to process for the first time. And I have very high hopes that before the summer we will be able to have an agreement between all these bodies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u33	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the topical and urgent question in the House on Friday 31 March. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question by Mr. Dimitrios Sevastakis, Member of the Radical Left Coalition, Mr. Dimitrios Sevastakis, Minister for Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, on the reopening of Sami TV and the framework for the proper functioning of regional media. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Under No 653/27-3-2017, a topical question by MP Chios of New Democracy Mr. South Mitarakis to the Minister for Migration Policy about "the caging of immigrants and refugees in Chios because the Government is unable to implement its decisions". 3. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Kingdom Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance, on "necessary and enforced legislation in order to remain in the special regime of about 400,000 farmers". 4. The Question No 658/27-3-2017 by MP B' Athens of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Panagiotarou to the Minister on "return of the Olympic Games". B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 661/28-3-2017 by MP Itolokarnanias of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Maria Triantafyllou to the Minister of Environment and Energy, on the subject, "object local communities of the Municipality of Ioannina Mesology in the construction of bioliquid power plants. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Evros of New Democracy, Anastasios Prussias, Minister for Rural Development and Food, concerning the exception of Evros and Samothraki from exceptional aid to milk producers in islands experiencing problems due to migratory flows. 3. The Question No 649/27-3-2017 by Independent MEP B'Athens Efstathios Panagoulis to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject of "provocative use of chemicals in protesters despite the recent explicit ban on the government and the commitment of the Minister". 4. The question by No 520/23-2-2017 of the Member of Parliament of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Koutsoukos to the Minister of Finance, concerning the "silence of Mr. Tsakalotou and the government's commitments". 5. The question by number 461/8-2-2017 of MP II Athens of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Helen Zarulia to the Minister of the Interior, on the "terrorist attack by kalashnikov against men of MATs". 6. The Question No 435/2-2-2017 by MP II of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Helen Zaroulia to the Minister of Finance about the "definition of judge in the administration of the Ultrasur". 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The Question No 367/20-1-2017 by MP Evia of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nicholas Michou to the Minister of Home Affairs on the "unacceptable displacement of 36,769 Greek children from nursery stations". 8. The Question No 333/12-1-2017 by MP Achaias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Theodoros Papatheodorou to the Minister of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information on the financing of journalists and websites. 9. The 439/6-2-2017 topical question by MP V' Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Finance regarding the transfer of PPC users to companies of alternative electricity providers. 10. The question raised by Mr Georgios Amyras at number 498/20-2-2017 about the 'SIEMENS' case. 11. The Question No 620/20-3-2017 by the Deputy of Attica of the Independent Greeks Mr Konstantinos Katsikis to the Minister of the Interior about the compensation of owners of the expropriated areas for the construction of a Western Attica landfill area. 12. Under number 625/20-3-2017, a topical question by Piraeus II of the Association of Centres Mr.Theodoras Megalonikou to the Minister of the Interior regarding the payment of the contractors to several municipalities in the country. 13. Observations of the Court of Justice The Question No 622/20-3-2017 by MP Magnesia of the New Democracy, Christou Boukorou, to the Minister of the Interior, concerning the payment of the transport of students by means of special student cards with public transport. 14. Observed. The Question No 633/21-32017 by Independent MEP Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information on the subject "delays excitement and fraud". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Question No 2787/23-1-2017 by Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis, Vice-President of Parliament, and Member of Parliament, Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis, Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the management and exploitation of the real estate of the Ministries of Health and Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Attica of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Madame Friday Christophilopoulos to the Minister of Health about the "difference of the Ministry of Health for the Zakynthos Hospital". 3. Question No 2718/19-1-2017 by Independent MEP Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister for Immigration Policy, on the subject of "the need to take legislative measures to speed up proceedings before the courts in cases of which the application for international protection - asylum has been rejected". The eleventh question will now be discussed under number 564/6-3-17 of the second question of the Achaias MP of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Theodoros Papatheodorou to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs on the "anti-constitutional and extra-academic criteria for the selection of the candidates of the CPA to the Hellenic Open University". Ladies and gentlemen, almost an hour has passed and only two questions have been raised. Because there is legislative work at 12 noon and we have a lot of questions, I will interrupt you. So you follow the times of the Rules of Procedure. Here, Mr. Papatheodorou, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Madam President. I'm finally going to ask for your tolerance, but in my dentistry. Minister, the subject of today's question is the proclamation for the collaborative scientific staff at the U.S.A., at the Hellenic Open University. It is a question that you know that it concerns a number of thousands of candidates right now and from your answer it will be decided whether they too will be able to continue their candidacy. Why? Because for the first time in the new notice for 2017-2020 they include elements, criteria, which are out of every academic ethics and academic evaluation. Of course, there is also evidence which, in my view, is unconstitutional and, in any case, arbitrary. What's that evidence? I will only mention two of you because there are many other things we will find in the debate. The first is the criterion of availability, according to which the applicant is required to justify, to justify whether he is available to offer his services. Not whether he wants it himself, but in relation to his other service or work commitments, his working hours, or whether he has a principal or other job. The second criterion, Minister, is that of the negative molecularisation, for applicants who have previously been members of the cooperating scientific staff of the PSC, according to which one unit is deducted from the applicant for each year of his previous cooperation, and, respectively, add certain molecules to those who have not been recruited to the PSC until now so that there is a balance between the old and the new ones, with the only difference that both of these criteria are not academic, but are included in an evaluation carried out by the dossier and possibly by the interview that will pass on to the candidate. Minister, concern is one. I would say to you that we have asked - and it is the question - your intervention in redefining the criteria before the deadline for submission of applications. Minister, these criteria cannot stand before any court. They'll be out. This will have serious consequences for this reason: along with this discount, we will also have the discount on the list, so the GLPs will not be able to be in place from next September. I'll come back to my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u35	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u36	Thank you. First of all, I think that if we want to solve issues of academic importance, we should not resolve these in the courts. I've got this as a start. Unfortunately, I too - as you know tomorrow, a decision will be made on what is said at the Democrat University - to proceed with sanctions. But our main point is not that. So let us see the role of the Greek Open University. It is one of the most important bodies in which young scientists can find work, the young scientists for whom we all shed tears that go away, do, show. Of the two thousand teachers do you know how many people already have a job are university teachers? The thousand six hundred. We pour tears here so that our children don't go away and our institution, which can host young scientists, this institution is by a huge majority dedicated to people who have a second job. That is neither academically correct nor socially correct. That's the first. Second, let's see how all these years the molecules have become. If I applied - I have never made an application, because I do not think that a university student should be working on many things - as soon as I finished the application, I was immediately accepted. Why? Because I had many years of instruction, by definition, I had many publications, but my publications were considered not on the basis of content, but where I published them, how many of them, and so on, quantitative criteria. Other colleagues may have thrown me out in the air in literature, but they were not taken into consideration. And a young scientist, who had much better studies than I did, much less work, because he was a young man and no trade, stayed out. This was not a way of academic choice, as you understand. It was an administrative arrangement. So what we are saying now - rather, what the administration says, because, as you can see, I cannot intervene is a self-government institution...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u37	No, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u38	In our minds, the state must leave these institutions, with their difficulties, to move forward through consensuals to improve. What we are saying now is that the availability of candidates should also play a role. What do we mean by this: You are a university, Mr Papatheodorou, and indeed one of the most famous on Greek territory. And I mean it, without any flattery. You've also done command. Is it possible that someone who makes administration, has responsibilities in undergraduate courses, has responsibilities in postgraduate courses, does research, says, "I am also available to do a course at the Open University" and take the place of a new man? We don't think so. And I say 'we', because I think that both the management of the university and the Minister and the Ministry in this matter are in agreement. So available. Because you know very well that with all the debate that is taking place on postgraduate and if anyone needs to be paid by the IGC members, etc., a little theme of postgraduate, a little theme of the administration that has this incredible bureaucracy, which has intensified over the last few years of the crisis, a little bit of the fact that they want to bring money from abroad from competitive programs, which you know how positive Greek academics are on this, little one, little the other, the undergraduate programs have been ignored. There is a huge risk in undergraduate, which is the university's main mission, to be in the auto. So, available resources, because if I say that I am doing the administration, I do the one, I do the other, and I want to do the other lessons, there should be some principle that says, "No, you can't do a lesson." So, and to see on the substance of who can do these lessons, and above all, to open up, at last, these institutions to the young scientists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u39	Thank you. Mr. Papatheodorou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u40	Minister, you are very enlightening, not only to me, but to all those who listen to us. I say this because you have indeed invoked my experience. I was a 10-year-old member of the EPA and when I was a dean, like many other peers, but also many other teachers. Also, at the time I was in the Ministry of Education, we established the quota so that those who are judged, Mr Minister - quite rightly you said - are to be judged on equal terms on the basis of criteria which are relevant to their work. That's why we had a special way of entering new scientists. It was 85% and 15%. You could have increased it so that he who has too many publications, who has experience, is judged by their fellow artists, but also by those who have the same qualifications and open up a way to young scientists, so that they can take these positions. But listen, because they will expose all of what you have said before, the very enlightening ones. And I will give you some information, because I think that some things have not come - and it is not your fault - in your understanding and what you have said, as well as what the governor has said, will be used soon, as far as I know, and in appeals made by the candidates. Why? Because when we go to make a crisis of academic, evaluation, the SPS Management Committee on 23 March - I read you - in a statement - not in a statement, in a communication - states: "The criterion of the time available for the SPAs is a major criterion..." - the main criterion, Minister! "... since there are several of our colleagues who do not have a main job in the academic workplace..." - is not a scientific OAED of the Hellenic Open University - "...and this is indeed a pursuit of the current administration due to the increased demands. This direction, excellently academic, serves well.’ In other words, the main criterion is the availability, not the academic qualifications of the candidates. And that will be based on a court of court either on the insurance measures or on the appeal. What else does the board say? The committee of directors, while characterising the previous procedure, also tells us in the communication: 'We will not be talking at present about the letters of gratitude and gratitude of tens of worthy colleagues who have for years been out of nymph'. Minister, there are candidates in and out of the nymph before the evaluation process begins at the time they are running. Listen, because I don't think you've read it, you haven't been sent to read it. "You are probably joining..." - responds to the members of the U.S. club - "...the prevailing traditional conception, yes to renewal, but starts from my next side, that is never to happen." And it accuses some of the candidates of having a conservative criterion in terms of academic ethos, a backward criterion in terms of refusal of the renewable effort, and that is why the act of availability, that is to say, judging the other if I am available - there you are wrong, Mr Minister, if I may be allowed - is in response to a criterion of social justice. Social justice, of course, and equality is one of the criteria. But there are others in the academic evaluation. Because you may not have been sent by the president of the administration some of the posts and comments he has made, I will tell you this, Minister. The President of the Governors - because you have previously covered him - to fighters - the mistake is correcting you, fighters are - who are allegedly cut off for the level and values of the academic status of the U.S.A., saying: "You simply do not want to change anything, because you fear that the twenty-year war of many will be lost and that none of the new ones who leave every day migrating abroad will be lost. You are talking about principles here, and that is exactly what you are missing. Minister, the President of the Governor is addressing this in the midst of the process of applying the candidates and before the evaluation begins, when the commander will be the final judge of the evaluation. One more thing. It reads: "Some people today who think they are the owners of the country." It is addressed to those who are candidates. And it goes on to say: 'From me they do not expect me to resign because I am in the field of 'terrorism of universities'. Their management colleagues are threatening to disciplinary or otherwise oppose me. They're forming a block of unholy alliance. And all of this, because we dared to form a proclamation opening the doors of the OSH to new scientists." When, Minister, these are the subject of or are they the subject of any request for insurance, any appeal, do you know what the future of the notice will be for that? And because I personally have the concern that this notice should not be withdrawn, that the specific notice should not be declared invalid, because then when the decision comes to be taken, the students who are going to be in the themes, the thousands of students will be left without an EPA, so I have told you that we expect your intervention so that there is no such decline in the functions of the administration. It's not a self-sufficient university, U.S.S.A. He's with an appointed commander. It's a decay, it's an unorthography. So what we ask you to do is to correct the irrationalism, administrative and policy that you can correct, because the authoritarian unorthodox writings of the President cannot correct them. There's something else.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u41	Finish, Mr. Papatheodorou.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u42	I shall conclude with that, Madam President. Please see which company has uploaded the bid platform. Do you know why? For a simple legal reason. Because when you ask the candidates for sensitive personal data - such as the name of their child or the name of their wife - with a simple appeal there is no longer a notice, it is void. And all this, fundamental, elementary, childish, should - and now you must - intervene to change them, so that you can, firstly, raise the authority and credibility of a university, which has served very bright names. And secondly, Mr Minister, in order to end this situation, which does not seek honour either in the academic community or in the way in which universities operate and, above all, does not serve the Foundation's merits and academic credibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u43	The Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs Mr. Konstantinos Gavroglou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u44	First of all, the communication you referred to is a communication from the Management Committee rather than from the President. It's important, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u45	...(not heard).
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u46	No, no, it's the board of directors. Signed by the Management Committee. I checked on my computer now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u47	That's exactly what I'm tabling in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u48	The second is that I understand that you did not want to respond to what I said before, about how the academics were elected or the provocatively large number of people who had a second job. It is your choice not to want to comment on it. Thirdly, on the subject of the Greek Open University - as we have said here in Parliament - we are in a consultation with the administration, so that we can see how it will be incorporated into its operation, but also in its structure, the experience of the past twenty years. You know, it's been founded in 1996, it's been twenty years, it's been with the same legal status basically...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u49	And he had to have been separated since 2014, according to the law.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u50	We believe that open universities should have a different status, because they are doing something different. This must also be reflected in its structure and function and as it is. It's a university different, like in all other parts of the world. Now, I insist that it is good not to resolve these matters in the courts. However, if some want to go to the courts, the courts will decide within the laws that exist and everyone takes their responsibility for any inconveniences they bring. We consider that there is absolutely no legal problem, but there is a new approach, academic, which at the moment seems to have upset many people. And it seems to us how a regulation that finally opens with much greater generosity the doors of such an institution in the young scientists, how this thing in the well-sitting is being attacked. This is a matter of discussing it out of order if you want. Because you talked about the many publications, what happens, how etc. Mr. Papatheodorou, as you know, the subject is not the many publications. It's good publications. And nowadays there is a multitude of publications that raise many questions. Finally, for the first time, a quality approach will also be launched and not the quantity. Let's think of it as a good thing. Secondly, with regard to the issue you raised about availability: Look, the issue of availability for such things must now be an academic criterion among us. Is it possible for someone to run from work to work and want to go to teach? The day has twenty-four hours and we know what academic work means. Because we will discuss the same when we bring the Postgraduate Bill. Is it possible to run from a postgraduate to another - where are these things going? - and want to get paid already? If he has availability, with his joy, to offer his experience and within the rules of the game, if he wants to be paid. Availability, though, means how serious you're doing your other business. So here we cannot be open to everything, say 'yes' to everything, as academics. That is why we think that is not going to be cut off. It is an essential and academic criterion and it is the beginning of the renewal of a course at the Hellenic Open University, which I hope will bring to the space many young and very good scientists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u51	Thank you. We will discuss the fifth under number 553/3-2017 the topical question of the second question of the MP of Heraklion, New Democracy Mr. Eleftherios Aygeakis...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u52	Madam President, if it is possible to put my question forward, why do I have to go to another committee to which I am rapporteur? I don't just want to watch her.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u53	Do you have any objections, Mr. Ausgarian?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u54	No objection, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u55	Therefore, we will now discuss the seventh with number 430/31-1-2017 a topical question by MP II Thessaloniki of the Democratic Association of PASOKs - DIMAR Mr.Georgiou Arvanitides to the Minister of the Interior, concerning the significant reduction of firepower in the Regional Unit of Thessaloniki. Mr. Arvanitides, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u56	Madam President, I shall use my dentistry as well. Mr Minister, although very late, it is a good thing that we are discussing today in Parliament a question which remains a timely one. As you well know, for 2017 the decision of the Chief of the Fire Corps provides for the reduction of ninety-nine positions of the organic fire-fighting power serving at the Thessaloniki Fire Service. In this decision the number of three hundred sixty-five firefighters serving in 2016 is reduced to two hundred sixty-six. So the main question you need to answer is on what design and what criteria you have taken this decision. I say this because, with the data available to me, a 27% reduction in staff is not justified either on the basis of the distribution of fire extinguishers to the ground or on the basis of the proportion of population and fire extinguishers. In particular, while the population of the regional unit of Thessaloniki amounts to 10.26% of the country's total population, the proportion of fire extinguishers taking, on the basis of the new decision, the new distribution is only 3.56% of the rate of fire extinguishers they serve. To make a comparison, I will tell you that at the same time in Attica - which has 35.4% of the total population - the distribution is 27.75% in the number of fire extinguishers. This misrepresentation, Minister, is so intense that I do not think there are any misinterpretations. Even if we take another indicator, however, the relation of firefighters to the residents, again the figures show that Thessaloniki has fewer firefighters than the ones it really deserves. The evidence here is revealing. In the Regional Unit of Thessaloniki, it accounts for twenty-six firefighters per 100 thousand, when in Attica this ratio is fifty-nine firefighters per 100 thousand inhabitants. And, of course, these distortions do not exist only in Attica, they exist in other regions of Greece. In Achaea, for example, there are seventy - two firefighters per 100 thousand inhabitants. I hope this has nothing to do with the origin of the former Chief of the Fire Corps. The evidence I'm using is from the Association of Firefighting Officers in the region of Central Macedonia and I can, if you like, submit it for the Minutes. So you realise, Minister, that the concern that exists in society is absolutely justified, since firefighters are not only essential to the suppression of fires, but also contribute to other important issues such as natural disasters. I will only remind you of the great contribution of the Fire Corps to the catastrophic floods recently struck by the Municipality of Thermaikos, which left behind a dead and huge material damage to homes, businesses and public infrastructure. So such a significant reduction in the power of the Fire Corps makes sense to employ the local society, which is also awaiting specific answers. In fact, you have received a letter from the Regional Association of Municipalities and Communities of the Municipalities of Central Macedonia on 24 January, while statements in this direction have also been made by the Regional Governor of Central Macedonia. So I want you to explain why Thessaloniki from 365 firefighters in 2016 will have 266 firefighters in 2017. And, of course, state whether you intend to review your decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u57	The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u58	Madam President, Mr Arvanitidis, there has been a debate beforehand on the organic force of the Fire Corps, but let us put things in place and try to explain how the distribution is being carried out. Therefore, on the basis of Presidential Decree 170/1996 in December of each year by decision of the Chief of the Fire Corps, the allocation of the total service force, not the organic, personnel of the Fire Corps in each area, is made. When we say a total service force, we not only mean the permanent firefighters, we also mean the officials of the other categories, we also mean the firefighters of a five-year term. What's happened so far? It has so far not been based on the criteria laid down in the Presidential Decree that I have mentioned, but it has been done with other criteria, and this has been coupled with the very many distortions I have mentioned on several occasions and concerns the Firehouse. It is a body of government which, unfortunately, contains very different backgrounds. They entered doors and windows for rospheric purposes and for the service of party interests - we all know that - so that conflicting guilds are created to a large extent and mutually advantaged. Why am I telling you this? Because there's a certain charge coming, the charge of permanent fire extinguishers, and he says the staff's down. But let me mention what happens in the figures. There are 353 officials in the district of Thessaloniki - I speak with the current figures in March - general duties, 35 officials in special duty, officers in firearms, officer firefighters, officer firefighters. That's what we're looking for. What's there? There are 517 permanent, 36 permanent and 200 year-old firefighters. As you can see, it's not just the 366 you mentioned. They are the 517 plus 200 plus 36, where all these people are the potential of the Fire Corps in Thessaloniki. So we should not isolate one - one category and see the fluctuations. There were reductions in Thessaloniki and Athens and in other areas due to the obligation to manage airports. But in this particular case - I shall say the word - the region of Thessaloniki is not shattered. It is an area in which we have allocated too many powers, and that is how it should be. And we've made more use of it. You know last year and last year about the disposal of the firefighting helicopter during the summer season in order to serve the aerospace. We therefore need to see the overall figures and that is where to draw the conclusions. I'll tell the rest of it in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u59	Mr Arvanitides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u60	The question is all these categories you mention how they were in 2016 and how they are formed in 2017. Regardless of whether there are different internal numbers, the total number, as you mentioned it, about 2016 and 2017 how much is it? Has the sum of all these categories been reduced between 2016 and 2017 to what extent? I mean, you told me that other permanent people, then we had the other charges, we had a number in 2016. For 2017, this total number, with the sum, how is it formed?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u61	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u62	I told you that both in Thessaloniki and Athens, this figure was indeed reduced by ninety-nine people, but it is almost twice the number envisaged. Instead of the three hundred sixty-six are eight hundred existing firefighters in Thessaloniki. Therefore, please see the total number, because all these firefighters are and serve the common mission, the common purpose. It is therefore wrong to take only one charge, but we should take the total number to draw our conclusions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u63	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after taking part in the Educational Programme of the "Democracy Workshop" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, sixteen students and students and an educational attendant from the 8th Petroupoli Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We now move on to the fifth under number 553-3-2017 a topical question by the Member of the Parliament of the Republic of Heraklion, Eleftherios Aygenakis to the Minister of the Interior, concerning the problem of road accidents, the strengthening of traffic education and the better implementation of the Road Traffic Code (K.O.K.). We all know that for Crete. Mr. Aygeakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u64	Madam President, before I address the Minister, I should like to address you as President-in-Office, since every day and every day it is increasingly weakened and discredited the role of Parliament and you, of course, are responsible both for you and the President of Parliament, Mr Butsi. When dozens of amendments are tabled to unrelated bills even in sanctions such as today, when there is no timely programming, so there is no timely information for Members on their parliamentary work next week, when dozens of topical questions which are tabled and which are not being discussed - only today we have nineteen, if I am not mistaken, and four or five - are to be debated - when dozens are the topical questions which are never planned, then parliamentary control is indeed weakened. Why is that? I would ask both you and the President of Parliament to give us a convincing answer. And I'm getting to the point. Minister, unfortunately life itself is beyond us. When I tabled this question, that is, about two months ago, the tragic traffic accidents in the Higher Viotias with four dead last month and Euosmos of Thessaloniki had not occurred until the day before yesterday with four dead and a very seriously injured one. Unfortunately, the question we are discussing a few weeks after it has been tabled is even more time-consuming. Ladies and gentlemen, traffic accidents are the most important wound in our country. The blood tax we pay for asphalt is the highest and heaviest that Greek citizens pay for. Costs in human lives, especially young people, are invaluable. In our country deaths as a result of an accident on an annual basis reach about two thousand, while severely or slightly injured touch the fifteen thousand. Here I am referring not only to those who lose their lives at the place of the accident, but also to the deaths that then follow in hospitals as a result of the accident. Every year a town is destroyed from our country, while a provincial city needs hospitality. At the same time, however, there are other important dimensions of the wheels beyond that of the value of human life which is not appreciated. It is estimated that traffic accidents cost about 20 billion euros a year for treatment, rehabilitation, compensation to relatives of victims, wheelchair pensions from car, environmental destruction, depreciation of the tourist product by travel instructions and others. It is also estimated that 40% of the cost of health is from the roads. All of this increases the costs of the EMCDDA for first aid, while a very significant cost is borne by the costs of materials, medicines, chronic rehabilitations, etc. According to the World Health Organisation, lost GDP from road accidents in Greece amounts to 5%.The cost of road accidents and accidents is dramatically borne by the central government budget, both due to the burden of the national health system and the insurance funds as well as the costs of repairing and restoring the infrastructure that is being destroyed. What, unfortunately, happens every day on the Greek streets is a national tragedy. We're all candidate victims. Unfortunately, we are also uraguas in the issues of road safety in Greece. The problem is complex and there is no magical solution. Let us be sure of that. The problem is also national and it is certainly beyond party and political differences. Road safety is a national issue and it must be addressed as such. After that, Minister, I would like to ask you: what action does the Government intend to take to deal effectively with the problem of road accidents and to better implement the Road Traffic Code? What is the government's planning to strengthen traffic education and, of course, what means? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u65	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u66	Madam President, Mr Aygeakis, firstly because the problem is a national one, and it is indeed a matter that concerns our society and our state for many years, so we must be very realistic and accurate in terms of the numbers and numbers of accidents so that we do not create impressions upwards or downgrade the issue. In 2016, in Greece, seventy-five fatal traffic accidents occurred, in 2015, seventy-three, in 2010, at 12. The reduction is at 2%, and it is the European Union that has set the target. Of course, this does not satisfy us, because no death and no injury are acceptable and is not described by numbers. But we have to describe this situation in a number. With regard to the measures included in anti-crime policy and to address road safety problems that were implemented both during 2015 and during 2016, these involved identifying and mapping dangerous signs, defining control points - and then I will tell you what measures were taken after this tragic incident on the national road some time ago - intensification of controls and targeted controls. The website of the Hellenic Police describes the dangerous points. Will you tell me, everyone sees them? We are doing everything we can in terms of informing the world. They also involved distribution of brochures with useful instructions, special courses and advice during the school period. We collaborate with the Ministry of Education and take courses in both primary and high school for proper road behavior. Continuing interventions are also being made by the Directorates of Carriage. In the past year there were a thousand forty - seven lectures in schools throughout the country and seventy - one thousand four hundred students were informed. In your constituency, in Heraklion, twenty-eight lectures were held and a thousand seven hundred ninety-eight students were informed. At the same time, we are studying technologies such as'smart policy', a programme through European funds, which will control the driver and previous infringements. Following this tragic accident on the highway, control measures have been taken every sixty or seventy kilometers, so that there are continuously twenty-five vehicles during the day and nineteen vehicles during the night for road traffic control. In addition, we tightened up the controls, so the confirmed infringements last year for the red signal breach increased 11.6%, for the non-use of a 8.6% belt, for the use of a 28% mobile phone, for drunks 5.8%, for non-use of children's seats 28%, for an irregular overrun of 12% etc. As far as the proposals for changing the KOK fines are concerned, they concern infringements not significant. First of all, the Ministry of Transport is responsible. We have made our proposals. The House's Committee on Road Safety has made its own proposals. We are in constant discussions with this committee. We're in constant discussions with the Transport Department. I will tell you then, because I see that I do not have time, where we are focusing on our proposal, because there has been a mistaken impression about the overall proposal on fines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u67	Mr. Ignace, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u68	First of all, we agree that the issue of road traffic prevention is not just your responsibility as the Minister for Public Order and Civil Protection. It is, of course, the responsibility of the Ministry of Transport, but dominantly, I would say, it is the responsibility of the Ministry of Education. Minister, it is a question of what kind of policy we are pursuing in order to eliminate the roads and what we are doing to stop the war on the roads. We all agree - or almost all - that particular emphasis should be placed on prevention, public awareness and education for proper road behaviour. Minister, you referred to the COK Review Committee. According to the reports, among the measures you propose are the immediate reduction of fines for serious infringements of the Road Traffic Code. You say even that only fines for a red signal violation and excessive alcohol consumption remain as they are. All other KCM fines are planned to be reduced by 50% due to their inability to pay by the offenders. Minister, the KOK fines are aimed at developing proper road behaviour, along with all the other ones you mentioned, but they are not enough. He wants a lot of work. The government reduces fines, tackling citizens' road safety as another source of revenue. Instead of doing so, it would be advisable for the government to draw up a comprehensive plan to prevent and prevent traffic offences. You have done well, and you have referred to the committee which operates here in the House. However, he has said many other things that you probably did not have time to report or have not taken into consideration. Road safety means traffic treatment, excellent road infrastructure, proper maintenance and control with a view to complying with and developing good road behaviour, and it is not something that should be limited to EUR 50 probably. We in the New Democracy, with our President, Mr Mitsotakis, also have the intention and will to put the question of road safety very high in our political priorities. Already, we have begun in the next few days to present a structured plan for the New Democracy to improve road safety entitled 'Presidency'. Our vision of road safety has a primary objective: the neutralization of deaths and injuries by road accidents. So we strengthen and propose changes and measures in a wide range of activities. Specifically: Remodeling speed limits, speed monitoring systems and addressing without a diploma-free driving problem with changes in the COK. We are proposing changes in substantive penalties and fines. We are shaping a framework of change in the part of the infrastructure. We modernise and automate services with a great impact on road behavior. We adapt the function of the Greek Police, giving the greatest powers and flexibility, of course, to the implementation and control of the institutional framework. We are proposing reforms in the educational context. So, together, and always with the Greek Police, let us come up with a structured strategy on road safety, so that we can make it possible in some years from now - automatically cannot - to have measurable results and say that yes, we all saved human lives together, improving safety on the road. We firmly believe that road safety issues do not have micro-party separations. As far as the number of deaths is concerned, this debate is not at all pleasant. I beg your pardon, Minister, let us not stay in the way, because the way in which we register and measure has just been changed, but in the number. In fact, deaths are much more because, as you well know, only deaths occur at the time of the accident and what happens immediately after the hospital are not filled in this table. However, it is of little value if it increased by 1% or 2%. It is important that thousands of our fellow citizens are lost on the streets, and we are all candidates since we are on the streets of our country.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u69	Mr Minister, before you speak, I would like to make a statement because children have come from a distance. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty students and students and two educational attendants from the 2nd Department of the Kounupidian High School of Chania. The House welcomes them. Mr. Toskas has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u70	Mr Ausgarian, in fact, the debate on the numbers and deaths of the roads is not at all pleasant. The figures I mentioned are the figures mentioned by the European Union.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u71	The way has changed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u72	These are the current numbers of the European Union. As far as fines are concerned, and I am always talking about the proposal from the Ministry of Citizen Protection to the Ministry of Transport, it does not concern infringements related to drunkenness, overcoming the speed limit, a red signal breach, a stop or compulsory concession, dangerous manoeuvres, the move to the opposite current, an anti-standard overcoming, improvised races, reversal of the motorway, reversal of a tunnel, rejection of objects, breach of supply hours, destruction or alteration of signs, mislabelling of works, alteration of tachograph elements, use of mobile phone and technical control of a CTEO. All this remains as it stands, according to the proposal. We will see what eventually chooses to amend the transport ministry's existing bill and from there we can discuss it. All the constructive proposals are welcome. Our proposal, therefore, is not about serious infringements. It concerns minor infringements, for which it is reasonable to reduce fines. From that point on, I will agree that it is a major issue that does not fit in. It is an issue that has to do with changing attitudes in our society, in our schools, anywhere, because I do not think that any of us can be gazed at driving in the way they have to. It is true that these attitudes must be changed. There is an intensive education programme, as I said before, in schools from the smallest grade, in municipality and then intensified by this programme, as will be intensified by controls. I told you that they were already on the national roads. We will go further and see what we can do on issues related to the technical support of these checks, because you know - it has been mentioned lately - how after 2010 the control systems intended for the national roads have ended up in other areas and there are gaps that exist now. We will, however, see what we can do in these difficult circumstances and in the technical support systems, because there is indeed no justification for a single drop of blood on the national roads or on any road. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u73	Thank you. Now we will discuss the tenth question under number 506/20-2-2017 on the second question by MP II Athens of the Democratic Association of PASOKs - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdos to the Minister for Administrative Reconstruction on recruitment under the procedure referred to in Article 63 n.4430/2016. Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u74	Good morning and thank you, Madam President. I don't want to have a legal debate here. You're a scientist in another industry. We will, however, discuss the political tops of a political issue, which concerns your competence. I do not want to talk in general about the increase in the public sector through advisers that is taking place on your day. These are discussed. You've been asked and answered. I would, however, like to raise another issue of violations of the Constitution and of European law on the part of your Government. You're already sinners. Pappa Law. Heads of hospitals. Hospital commanders. Heads of units of education, schools. There's more I don't remember. You have one more thing to do and you have time to solve it. I speak to you in honor. I have brought this matter to the House for about a month or so, and we are giving you a solution, that is to say, listening to what is to be done, realizing that it is beyond what your colleagues have been telling you. You're a doctor. You're listening to the lawyers. You're not in complete position to judge who's telling you the truth. I'm gonna tell you something that's like I'm telling you and you're gonna weigh it. L.4368 mentioned by the President is a law concerning the Ministry of Health. I remember that it is an amendment, because I spoke about it. I was against. The Minister at that time - I do not remember which of the two - replied: 'We have in our programme an end to the government's relationship with the cleaning companies in this regard and to go to recruitment'. That amendment was intended to talk about fixed-term contracts. Thirty people from Kalamata are now coming from the hospital and they say: "No, you're wrong. The Constitution and Union law shall be violated.’; And the Suspension Committee of the Council of State comes along and says: 'Yes, there is a serious risk that two Community and Union directives might be violated'. Why are they being violated? Because the issues of public procurement are issues relating to Union law and have been addressed in the Member States of the European Union as a whole. It shall not suspend the validity of acts for health reasons in order to clean hospitals. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm closing, Madam President. That's not good enough. You come with a new law - I think with Law 4430/2016 - with an amendment again and you generalise it throughout the public sector and the public works with this legal framework. However, since the Suspension Committee of the Council of State has defined it as it has been defined, it is certain that you will lose, Minister. It is a matter of months to come to a decision and to put this institutional framework out of hand. What are you gonna do then? The Council of State has warned you. In the meantime, however, you have to make decisions. These arguments that we are the Greek Government and we will do what we believe, because they are our programme, etc., have a framework of legitimacy. What are you gonna do? How do you prepare to resolve the matter if this decision of the Council of State is ultimately the case? You will not have the argument 'I'm surprised'. You're warned. I really want from your replies and from my second speech to see how much public support there is at the moment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u75	Thank you, too. Madam Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Loverde, I'm glad we're having this conversation today. I think it may be a good start to discuss a huge issue called 'contractors', which have not suddenly emerged in Greek reality since the country's government took over by SYRIZA - ANEL. You raised the question with a question of compatibility. However, Mr Loverde, without being a legal person, I really can read a few things and reasonably deal with them, with common sense, that is, rather than legal knowledge. Reading a few things, I saw that you raised the question of the compatibility of Article 97 of Law No.4368/2016 and Article 63 of Law 4430 in relation to Union law. You are also asking whether we have taken into account the objections made by the Committee of Suspensions of the Council of State, but also by approved law. These articles relate to individual fixedterm contracts in the field of feeding, storage and cleaning, where unforeseen and urgent needs are met. So, as far as the compatibility of these contracts in the field of feeding and storage with Union law, as you know, there is obviously no question, namely the Committee on Suspension of the CSCE itself. Refers - I quote - 'Public contracts for security and feeding services fall under both European directives into special schemes, so the question of the legal question of the agreement with the European Union is not raised'. In other words, food and storage services do not even raise a question of infringement of Union law since they are not governed by Union law. It is therefore too much of a way to renounce us that we have not taken into account Union law. Now, I come to the issue that concerns only workers in cleanliness. You are well aware that Union legislation on such contracts applies beyond a minimum amount. The exact amount of EUR 209 000, which individual contracts do not always exceed. Of course, with regard to these individual contracts, it is important to say that this did not occur to us all of a sudden today, and it is not the SYRIZA Government that has been dealing with it, but it has been treated in the same way over the past twenty years and over. I will remind you of the laws of 2012 and 2013, which were not our government. The first recruited by way of derogation New Democracy - PASOK in 2012 and 2013 the contractual cleanliness and, of course, the hostage status were handed over to the government of SYRIZA, the law of Stournara - Stournara in 2012 and an amendment to Stournara - Stakoura in 2013. In fact, for some twenty years until then, governments and PASOK and the New Democracy signed monthly individual four-day work contracts to serve cleanliness needs. Were they not violating Article 103 of the Constitution and Union law then? This practice was not related to a certain period of time, such as that of SYRIZA, but was extended over a period of time, that is, twenty years. That's all about the past. Also, I did not think of this alone, but there are in your explanatory statement of your own law, of L. 4099/2012, and I read out self-evidently: "The continuing reduction of cleaning staff has made it problematic for the services to be staffed immediately in order to deal with the problem. In consultation with the relevant departments of the Ministry, four-month work contracts with cleaners were signed for some twenty years. In this way, credits were saved, since the remuneration of contract staff is far less than the cost of regular staffing. After the General Accounting Office document of the State, the remuneration of such persons shall not be paid. It is therefore necessary to vote on the proposed provision in order to pay the salaries of persons working in cleaning up to 31/12/2012.’ So, Mr Loverde, with this law, the government at that time, New Democracy - PASOK, I would remind you, has legalised these individual contracts so that the contractors can be paid for cleanliness. The same was done in 2013, allowing individual contracts to be concluded by the end of the year, but also payment of the accrued contracts until then, Article 23 of the Law 4151/2013. At the same time, a large number of workers were made available in 2013 by raising the problem of lack of staff in important areas, such as cleanliness. At that time, the government also began to conclude contracts with the private cleaning workshops, of course increasing the cost of providing these services. The paradox has emerged: Private workshops have been changing through the competitions and workers have remained exactly the same. A suffocating situation has arisen. So here we came sometime later, through all this regime that I describe, with which you managed the matter accordingly. Obviously you could not do otherwise, just as we have problems today in dealing with this big issue. That's why I'm telling you it's important to talk about it. We are receiving a situation that is really suffocating, where we are dealing with a low-cost exploitation regime and, on the other hand, a growing problem of lack of staff in the clean-up sector. In order to deal with these issues in a transparent process, we have therefore proceeded with the conclusion of individual contracts of private works of a fixed term. In addition, it was explicitly established that the cost of concluding should be within the limits of the operator’s respective appropriations in order to avoid the budgetary burden. Madam President, I will continue later.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u77	Mr. Loverdos, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u78	Madam Secretary, I'm not a psychologist. I'm a lawyer. I don't understand how you answered me. You responded to me by service, and I don't know why you did this. I warned you in my first place that I would like us to reach agreement on the political tops of the issue, because the law presupposes that both parties are lawyers or lawyers. You're not. You're a doctor and you're fine. You answered me in a way that is none of my business. You said PASOK, New Democracy, SYRIZA. I didn't talk to you like that. I told you I could talk to you, because you are a government that violates the Constitution by systemic means. Every day there is a decision that judges your laws unconstitutional. The list is long. That's not why I came here. That's what the news says. This is a National Representation. Can we help you on a subject? We can. How can we help? Come on, let's see. I'm not telling you about contractors. Contractors are an old story. He tried to solve it by Mr. Pavlopoulou and put three hundred thousand people in public. He charged the Greek State with what he did as Minister of the Interior then Mr Prokopis Pavlopoulos. That's well known. I didn't come here to tell you about it, who was it, who started it, who finished it, what Mr. Pavlopoulos could do then. I have come to tell you that you have made a choice at the beginning of the Ministry of Health on cleanup issues which do not concern emergency and unforeseen needs, but constant and lasting needs. You made a start on leaving public contracts with the companies and making individual recruitments. You have brought an amendment and it has been reproduced for the whole of the public again by an amendment from the Ministry of the Interior before you. You pay for this, you haven't done it, but you have to give solutions. So SYRIZA comes in and says that "I will go to the logic of individual project contracts". Mrs. Gerovali, the law tells you about project contracts, not work. And they appeal to the Council of State and demand this arrangement, that it violates Union law and Article 103 of the Constitution, which you have said. I didn't mention them. What does the Suspension Committee say? Don't make you say things that you'll be paying in a while politically. You can't afford to say you're surprised. It tells you that these European Union directives are being violated, that it does not suspend the validity of acts for the recruitment of these people, for reasons of public health, namely safety, and that it warns you to change it, because when the final decision of the court comes out, all these people will be 'in the air' and public services will not be served. So I ask you how you will take advantage of this interim period. Do you have anything on your mind? If, after a few weeks, months, the court tells you that all this is illegal, that provisions of European, Union directives and the Constitution have been violated and, if you want - which you mentioned, I did not mention - what are you going to do next? How are you gonna solve the problems? The Committee on Suspensions is talking about covert employment contracts, not to address - and I say again, listen to it - exceptional and unforeseen needs, where such a contract of employment would be permitted, but to cover work contracts for fixed and fixed needs. What are you gonna do? Will you come here to say 'Do not justice let us do our job'? Will you call the judges? Will you make announcements to the associations of judges and prosecutors? What are you gonna do? And even if you do this and cover the news reports with such a news report. What are you going to do in practice? So you - and I'm closing up with it, because I really want us to agree, I understand that you understand - if you understand, I have nothing else to offer. You'll give solutions. What will you do if that happens? You'll tell me it won't happen. Good. I'm telling you, I'm not a psychologist to figure out why you're telling me this. You're telling me why you don't understand, or why do you understand, and when you leave and go to the Ministry, will you solve the matter? It's yours, I can't figure it out. But tell me here: If that happens, what plan do you have to deal with these issues?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u79	Here, Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u80	Mr Loverdos, I obviously did not try to make a legal controversy. However, I mentioned the history for reasons - I think - of good, that is, to say, that in the last few years - and not all of a sudden - this issue has not been dealt with. I would remind you that you cannot be surprised and that we did nothing but treat emergency and emergency in this temporary way. We understand that this way cannot be permanent. At the same time, you know that the financial margins are not enough to allow us to solve this problem directly by permanent recruitment, as we all understand, the need for cleanliness can only be to its greatest for fixed and permanent needs. Therefore, there are these two unsolved issues. That is why we are discussing and saying that it is a big issue that needs to be addressed and for which there should also be wider dialogue and intergrouping, given that it has also dealt with the previous governments - and the PASOK and the New Democracy - and it has not been resolved. Of course, the same problem is still going on until today. So we have done nothing but tried, by means of a call for tenders, in which the independent authority, the AACC, with mobilisations and so forth, to deal with this tender - this is what the Health Ministry has done in its latest legislation - by a transparent procedure, of course, for a period of time, i.e. provisionally with fixed-term contracts, the issue of cleanliness, which, as we know, is not a fixed-term, but a fixed-term problem. That is what I tried to tell you in the first part of my answer. I have read in detail, of course, without being able to interpret all its lines really, the decision on the interim measures of the Council of State, which says a lot of what you mentioned. However, it finally considers that the execution of these signed individual project lease contracts should be temporarily authorised - it is also for the Messinian Hospital - for the period until 31 October 2016, so that the hospital can take the place on a temporary basis. In other words, the reasoning here - I understand, politically now - says 'yes, there are problems'. We understand where it is, but there are problems, and that is why we are not taking this as a matter. But I only wanted to say that we now have, from the Ministry's point of view, cooperation with other mandatory bodies, so that we can map the whole area of contractors to all the ministries and to all Greece, which, as you know, are fragmented in time. Other contracts are four months, eight other months, 12 months and more. The show's gone. We are trying to do a mapping in time, to see what is happening, so that eventually we can find a way - that we may sometime later, we will have to discuss it - so that we give a permanent, final solution to the issue of the fixed and permanent needs that are always resolved on a temporary basis and on contracts. So that is our objective and intention, to resolve it definitively, naturally respecting the Constitution and Union legislation at all. That's our intention. We will of course also need constructive proposals here, Mr Loverde, which, as you said, are not me, but you are the ones, to discuss further matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u81	Thank you, too. MEP Rodopi Ilhan Ahmet calls for a short-day absence from abroad, namely in Istanbul, for family reasons, from 30 March to 1 April. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u82	The House therefore approved the requested permission. We move to the debate of the first under number 3732/24-2-2017 question of the Deputy Lakonia of the New Republic, Athanasios Davakis, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the preservation of the archaeological sites of Laconia. The question by my colleague will be answered by Mrs Lydia Conniordos, Minister for Culture and Sport. Mr. Davakis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u83	Thank you, Madam President. In the summer of 2016, during the summer that passed us, the new Naples Museum was inaugurated. Naples is a town near Kavomalia, if you have any thoughts of it in the southern part of Laconia, opposite the Elafonissos. It's a very beautiful building, which was given by the city's municipality. In fact, his inauguration - the inauguration of an excellent museum, as the whole effort has finally been - took place with the presence of the current Secretary-General, Mrs Vlazaki. I have made this small foreword, because since then the permanent problem, which you have also felt as a man of culture, and as a political leader of the Ministry of Culture, the preservation of our archaeological sites and our museums, the lack of personal security, or even the mismanagement of personal security, has proved so. Until November - December 2016 this museum - which I would like you to visit, Minister, is an excellent museum, showing how museums should now be from museums and from museums and from museums - worked with a craftsman as a personal guard. In January, two positions of archbishops, of which one remained until now, now of which the convention expires. The question that is being debated today because of the delay in answering - and that is better - was tabled before the announcement of the positions laid down for guards throughout the country. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Nevertheless, the distribution announced - and I am closing, Madam President - has not shown that there is a guardian for this museum. It has not been defined, that is, that this museum has not been provided for personal security. Because, unfortunately, the museums in Greece are closed when they must be open and open when they must be closed - due to hours, etc., which are combined with the hours of the ancient guards - I would like to know whether this discrimination exists at the expense of this museum. This is a new museum, which we must all see, to visit the society, the visitor of Naples, which especially at this time of beginning has a lot of visitability. Why can't you expect him to have a guard? In my speech at the time, I pointed this out to Mrs Vlazaki, for her congratulations, to her that it is an important effort that has been made with the money of the Peloponnese Region. I told her, however, on the other hand: "The bet for you, Mrs General, is how much this museum will be kept open, what will be done with the security staff." You've felt it. I think that it is a fundamental issue of life and of the visitability of our archaeological sites, and I would like you to answer why other spaces remain without care. We raced to have the Ceramic Castle a guard and now a guard came out for the Ceramic Castle. Why don't you take up the position of guardian for the Naples Museum, when we have eighteen - fifteen last year, and right - guards for Mystra? Why is there no rational distribution in the others? Thank you, Madam President, for tolerance and I will come back to my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u84	Madam Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u85	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Davakis, as you will know, today in the archaeological sites of the Antiquities of Laconia serve thirty four guards. More specialized, they are fourteen guards in Mistra, three in Monemvasia, one in Mani - Gerolimenas, two in Mani - Areopolitan, one in Gythio and one in Gythio Laconia. For the immediate future and the time that you referred to, that is to say, from 1 April to 31 October, there is clearly a need to cover gaps in museums, monuments, archaeological sites, where it is implemented - mainly on the basis of the needs of the IGC, but also the visitability of the sites - extended working hours. It is of great importance that the issue of accessibility in the placement of the guards is handled. We have taken the following steps: The Lakonia Antiquities Agency will be strengthened with twenty-person prisoners for seven months. Of these guards will be nineteen in Mystra, eighteen days a day and one night and one more in the Hawk. The issue of keeping the Archaeological Museum of Naples - Boeon is intended to deal with it by launching recruitment procedures in addition to four hundred guards. We had already proposed to hire a thousand seven hundred, of whom we took the three hundred sixteen. We have restarted our effort to have more, because what you are currently projecting, we have dealt with it from all parts of Greece. It's not just a Laconia thing. We understand the increased need. Because there are ever new excavations and new restorations, there are growing needs for archaeological sites. Recently I was at the Messology Museum, presenting the findings of the Ionia Road. It is a huge excavation work that is done there and a great deal of need for care. Therefore, through this effort to recruit additional individuals, one of our priorities is to place a guard. But for the time being, as will be the case last year, there will be a temporary assignment of security and employment of one of the officials of the Department of Antiquities. Also, there is long ago the energy to fill two hundred more jobs. This procedure is under way. It has already passed through the General Accounting Office and we expect a final act of the Ministerial Council to be done to that end.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u86	Mr. Davakis, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u87	Madam President, I have seen the reply from the Minister that he refers to the case that I mentioned earlier, not to the Romans now, but to the Greek bells that have exceeded the Romans. Because I am a good intent, I would like to believe that these four hundred will be recruited immediately and not after the April-October period, which is the tourist season. I hope it has the Museum of Naples, but also the other archaeological sites of Laconia, the appropriate prison staff. I shall now refer to the other leg of Laconia. When you say there is a guard for the Mani area, with the scattered Byzantine cultural stock of churches and other archaeological sites, medieval and classical, you understand that things are very difficult. Finally, this place - I break open doors when I say this to you - has something still standing up, which is its cultural reserve. However, we are making twenty prison posts for Laconia - for me very few, but in any case, they are the data we have - and they are not expected to exist for Naples. Why should the intake of the guard or guard not have taken place at the first dose? It is noted that there is also a ticket publisher at the Museum of Naples. We can't have museums open with doses. Imagine opening the museum a few days. It does not mean this in a country, and indeed with this tourism that is intended to come, but also the visitors and the world that will go to see its cultural heritage, the locals, because the locals must slowly begin to love museums. We say 'Museums and museums' and, ultimately, it is a matter of education. We cannot, however, have museums open in doses. Because you're a man of culture, in the broader sense and in the narrow sense, I'd say, meaning, it's good to look at that. It cannot, in the presence of the Secretary-General, open the gates of a museum and have no guard. We've been closing for a year now. You told me this had happened. If this call doesn't approve of the Treasury and tells you, will you get a hundred? With the Acropolis and two, three other districts, the hundred left. So the Naples Museum will be operating again with the craftsman. Warm request, Minister, because I feel like I'm talking to a man who understands these issues, even though you are now involved in bureaucratic gears and information notes sent to you by the services, see this. It's an excellent museum. Visit it. Especially at this time, it is God’s joy that the region is. Visit the museum. Look at it and you come and tell me why this museum is closed and not open because of the lack of a guard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u88	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u89	Mr Davakis, I would like to assure you that it is in my immediate desire to visit the museum, as I have begun to visit other places outside Athens already. We agree with what you are saying that we are all in pain with the issue of the emergence and preservation of archaeological sites. It is a very difficult issue, especially in the current circumstances, because there is no possibility of permanent staff being recruited. However, one key criterion, which we can really have in this area of cooperation, is the question of the visibility of the sites. We know very well that the archaeological site and the Museum of Mystras have an impressive increase in traffic in recent years, which we must respond to, because there will also be problems there if we do not respond. There is not much visitability yet in the museum, because it is new and they probably don't know it. There I come to the point that we can have a very good cooperation - and you have raised it, I think - of an area of this kind, an inspiration and encouragement from the local bodies, powers, associations, local authorities, and a campaign for the people of the region, the local population and also the wider through the Ministry of Tourism, so that this area can be projected. So when there is greater visibility, and the Ministry must respond to this need for people to visit. At the moment, we are trying to meet the forces that exist as far as possible. I want to assure you - and I see it now and closely - that the inventions are making huge efforts to organise museums so that they can be open to schools. In particular, a debate has begun with the schools to visit them on educational trips. Already there is a museum website, which is excellent. The intention of us is to work together. When visitability is increased, therefore, it will also be practically increased. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u90	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u91	Madam President, would you excuse me for five seconds?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u92	There is no tritology and we are too late, Mr President. You can tell her privately.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u93	Allow me for three seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u94	Oh, no. The Rules of Procedure do not allow that. I'm all you want. We are entering its final debate today under number 3063/1/10/2017 on the question of the question of the question of the Questions of the President of the Republic of Heraklion, the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the sustainable regulation of late payments to the public, the insurance funds and the municipalities, depending on the possibilities of the debtor. Mr. Kegeroglu, Mr. Petropoulos will answer. You have two minutes for your first talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I had tabled this question in writing, waiting for a written answer to the Ministries of Finance, Home and Labour, on the intentions of the Ministries, so in total, of establishing a sustainable regulation of late payments concerning the public, the insurance funds and the municipalities. I got an answer from the Home Office. I have not received an answer from the Ministry of Finance and Labour, which is why I am bringing it to plenary. I think it is very important that you do not rest on what is called an out-of-court compromise. I tell you beforehand, because the framework of the extrajudicial compromise, as it seems to be forming, will not serve three main reasons. The first reason is that the company must have at least one year with profits to get in. It excludes freelance professionals, except for small businesses, which are usually owed by EUR 20,000 and below, and, of course, requires that the company does not have 85% of its debts to a creditor, that is, not an example to the insurance funds. If she only has toward the insurance funds, she is excluded. Of course, there is the big point that it is called upon to come to the extrajudicial compromise - which, in my opinion, will result in extortion - the debtor, without having ensured that an irresponsible account is held in the meantime. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll take a minute from my second. In this sense, I ask you, as the Ministry of Labour, if you have studied the possibility, based on experience, of sustainable regulation. Why am I saying "on the basis of experience"? Because of the three hundred and fifteen thousand debtors with 17.5 billion debts, active arrangements remain for forty-five thousand essentially and concern 10% of the amount, namely 1.7 billion. To say that of the forty thousand debtors who lost the 2015 arrangement, the improved percentage of doses voted in 2015, only the five thousand were integrated into the fixed arrangement and only the three thousand have completed the process. Therefore, on the basis of this experience and the results published by the CRL in the past few days, I think that you need to move forward with a new sustainable regulation, taking into account the reality, so that we can move forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u96	Mr. Petersburg, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Kegeroglu, I have answered from this position in Parliament to your previous questions and I think I have given all the explanations. I'll do it now. Let us not downgrade the importance of the extrajudicial compromise. It provides the possibility for debts of more than 20,000, of course, in total, of being able to join this process and, with the convenience of involving at least 50% of creditors, which, with a majority that facilitates decision-making, 60% of the participants being able to face such debts. So we have taken a big step, which will largely clarify those cases that can be dealt with by viable companies, with a plan which is of course sustainable, because the solution to which creditors will end up is a long-term solution that will reach ten years for a debtor, as it will be about a hundred and twenty monthly instalments, with a minimum payment of 50 euros. It is therefore a great step that we must support. The business world needs to be made aware of this possibility in order to exploit it. I must also say that all the issues relating to economic development have been identified on a number of points, which we will see over time, based on the information I will tell you. This is not only a question of what facilities you give for debts, but also of what conditions you create in the economy, to deal with these companies and their obligations in future. At the end of 2008, Mr Kegeroglu, we had toward the Free Professional Insurance Agency - I will take it as a typical example - EUR 3.5 billion in debt. From there on, every year this debt exceeded one billion euros, resulting in us reaching 10 billion euros in 2014. We had over a billion euros every year. In 2016, the debt created for the OAU was EUR 600,000, i.e. about half of the annual amount formed every previous year. Be assured that in the way the contributions to the professions are now calculated, we will have a tendency to zero this phenomenon of debt accumulation. In fact, with the result that we have in the extrajudicial compromise on large debts, we will see what remains. I have said, moreover, that the question of the clearance of debts is an issue that we will deal with for those who, for reasons of complexity, complexity and the multiplicity of social security, were indebted to more than one insurance fund for the same insurance period, because each institution claimed the security of the citizen. This has been the case with all funds other than IKA, the former OAU, EBRD, OGA. These things will bring us into an image that we have already anticipated, as well as the law on the clearance of these obligations, which will be more specific. We will apply scientifically and methodically systems which in a credible way approach the debtor's debt and potential to meet the obligations on the part of the debtor. This system needs work, and I think we're going to finish it this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u98	Mr. Kegeroglu has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, you haven't kept them today. You have referred indirectly to the remarks of the professionals and entrepreneurs about your insurance contribution scheme. Look, this is one look. The other aspect, the real one, is that the system you selected has two features. Besides transferring the burdens to the small and medium-sized enterprises that produce and create - without a corresponding pension, don't tell me - it creates a poverty trap for everyone, as it says to them "stay at low incomes because, once you smell, we take your head with the insurance contributions". Secondly, it is the best incentive for tax evasion and tax evasion. There was no way any other system could be found that would give rise to tax evasion, except what you chose. Statically, if you test it for a year, of course, some pay lower and some pay higher. But look at it over time. There has always been an incentive to the young man and to the professional and small- and medium-sized enterprises to increase their income and thus increase national income. You give an incentive to reduce income. It's an antistimulator. It's also an incentive to tax evasion. He's got two sides, because they're not all tax hunters, they're also the poor. But there are also the poor who have the opportunity to raise the income and tell them "no, don't raise it, I'll take your head". So this debate - you will see it in the next few months - has already begun within SYRIZA. There are already things that are obviously not in the way of those who are supported by you. But I'd like to tell you something. We have the extrajudicial compromise you have put forward to support. So we have a professional or entrepreneur or a small business with 19,000 euros in debt and you tell them: 'No, you can't adjust, you will go with the twelve instalments to the fixed arrangement'. We have a business with 100,000 euros debts, and we'll take her to the hundred and twenty instalments. We have a business which, unfortunately, has been damaged in the last three years and has been profitable in the fourth or fifth year and we tell her that it is not part of it, because it is not sustainable. As if sustainable within a time of crisis, it is only the presentation of profits. If that's possible! That is, if he had no profits, but take care of the three, four, five years to put money on what he had created in previous years, you say to him: "No, you can't join." But this is something that we will discuss and prove in the next few days. I ask you this: One who is before retirement, a self-employed person, a professional and owes 50,000 euros - before retirement, is a specific question - you tell him that you will regulate the EUR 20,000 and the other EUR 30,000 to pay them cash? You're telling the other guy he'll have a hundred and twenty doses? Does it make any sense to each other? Is it an equivalency? Does it have a isology? How can I say it? Does he have justice? So it is an issue that you need to see for yourself or at least - take note of what I will say to you - for those who are excluded from the extrajudicial compromise. Those who will be excluded from the extrajudicial compromise - which will be many thousand of the three hundred and fifteen thousand debtors - can join a new sustainable arrangement. I am talking about those who will not be able to join the extrajudicial compromise. Because we've crossed the line, I'd like specific answers. For example, to a pensioner candidate who is before retirement and who owes 50,000 euros, what do you have to tell him? You'll say to him: "Get the 30,000 euros in cash." You have actually promised me another solution. But you didn't. For the candidate retired who owes 50,000 euros you told me we'd get a solution. Where is he? It's been a while. Isn't the Minister leaving you? Tell me you're going to make another kind of intervention. Don't look at the former minister. I'm asking if the current Minister won't leave you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u100	Mr. Petersburg, you have the floor. Let's finish, so we can get the legislative work started.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u101	You are pervading your word and with something else to make comments, Mr Kegeroglu. The policy we have been implementing is a policy which gives details of the problems that have arisen over the years. I told you some evidence before. I would expect this information that I gave you to find a barrier and not to say what you said afterwards. I say this because all these problems that you call on me to deal with are problems caused by the political choices of the previous governments and by your legislative arrangements. You have called for arrangements to deal with the problem for those who owe up to EUR 20,000 to receive a pension - and with our own government, we raised the limit, EUR 15 000 was, and we took it to 20,000 - for the OHIM and for it to be repaid over three years, paying the balance that was due, as the law has always provided for.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u102	You don't remember well. He went 30,000 euros against the army and returned to the 20,000 euros that we did.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u103	That was it, that's what we're doing. However, with regard to what you say about tax evasion because of our system, I have to tell you this, which is very reasonable and you will understand. This amount is obtained as a contribution today - which is so low for the free traders - is shown because it is calculated on the basis of the revenues of 2015. In 2015, the reported revenues were those that were declared by the contributors of this low contribution, without being motivated by a system, as you now say about our own that it will cause them this tendency to hide profits, to hide incomes. Therefore, there is no convincing argument in what you are saying, because L.4387 was voted in 2016 and no one knew in 2015 that it should hide incomes, so that it does not have a higher contribution. What I'm telling you to do will be confirmed. That's the trend. However, because net revenue is now to be shaped with an even more concrete control by the tax authority, and since, with the measures we take, I think we will put an effective barrier to tax evasion and tax evasion, we will have better results, which is something that also shows the way in which contributions are collected. As I told you, the debts reached for the first time, after so many years, about 600 million instead of over 1 billion in previous years. I'm talking about 2016. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] From this point on, I have to say again to the insured and to all the institutions - something I do every time you ask them - and to tell those who could not make contributions, to hurry to make them. Tomorrow is the last day to pay contributions for the month of January. With this achievement, which may be really very big, revenues go very well, despite the various rumours. Revenue is therefore so encouraging that it will encourage the insured to support social security, so that we can take other measures, just as you have mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u104	Madam President, I would like to table a document that I forgot about the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u105	Here, Mr. Kegeroglu, file the document.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u106	Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u107	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how it operates, thirty students and students and two educational attendants from the High School of Kounuppidians of Chania (Third Chamber). The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Here I shall read the questions which will not be discussed in the document of the General Secretariat of the Government. The first question under number 651/27-3-2017, the second question of the Piratos II Group of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Irinis Kasimatis to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, concerning the completion of the performance of the exempted areas of the concession agreement between the Greek State and “PAS SA”, in the municipalities of Piraeus Keratini - Drapetsonas, Perama, Salamis, and the Municipality of Piraeus, will not be discussed, due to the absence of Minister Kourublis abroad. Also, the second question under number 646/24-3-2017 of the New Democracy MP, Andreas Katsanotis, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, concerning the delay in the procedures for the application of Subsection 6.1 ‘New Farmers’, will not be discussed due to the absence of Minister Apostolos abroad. Furthermore, the fourth question by number 446/18-10-2016 question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Kingdom Kegeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the serious problems faced by farmers, will not be discussed either, due to the absence of Mr. Apostle abroad. Furthermore, the third question by No 3223/7-2-2017 question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Kingdom Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the announcement of the results of the Social Tourism Programme for workers, unemployed persons and their families will not be discussed, due to the consultation of the Deputy Minister, Mr. Antonopoulou, with the MP. Also, they will not be discussed as a result of an impediment to the competent ministers and will be redefined for discussion the following topical questions: The first under number 650/27-3-2017, the first question of the first cycle of the Member of the Dodecanese Coalition, Mr.Ilia Kamaterou, to the Minister of Finance, on the OPCW contract with the agents, will not be discussed, due to the impediment of the Minister, Mr. Tsakalotou. Cause: workload. The fourth question under number 647/24-3-2017 is the first question of the Athens MP of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr.Ilias Panagiotarou to the Minister of Finance on the legislative arrangement for extending approved expenses beyond hospitals. The third, with number 644/23-3-2017, a topical question by the MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Finance, on the subject of "The Government is preventing the investment for the development of the former airport of Greek", will not be discussed, due to the impediment of the Minister, Mr. Tsakalotos. Cause: workload. The second question under number 645/24-3-2017, first question by MP Halkidiki of the New Democracy, George Vayonas, to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the problems facing the bakers' industry in Greece, will not be discussed, due to the absence of the Deputy Minister Mr. Haritsis from Athens. The sixth question under number 556-6-3-2017, the second question of the Athens Parliamentary II, George Amyras, to the Minister of Finance, concerning the taking over by the Greek State of the outstanding loan contract of the Athens Concert Hall (MOMA) will not be discussed, due to the obstruction of the Deputy Minister, Mr. Juliarakis. Cause: workload. The eighth Question No 402/27-1-2017, on the reduction of the cost of diagnostic tests for breast cancer, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Deputy Minister, Mr. Polakis. Cause: workload. The fourth question by number 648/24-3-2017, by Evia MP of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Nicholas Michou to the Minister of Health, on the "strengthening impediment to the fulfillment of a covenant that provides for the establishment of an oncological clinic in Chalkida", will not be discussed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u108	Madam President, I would like to take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u109	Here, Mr. Constantinople, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u110	Today I had, once again, a question about the Greek, as you said and...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u111	I can't answer that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u112	I'll tell you what.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u113	What are you going to tell me?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u114	What's the matter with the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u115	I don't know, Mr. Constantinople.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u116	Workload!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u117	He was just out here in the hallway, and I said hello to him. I don't know what a coma that is. But look, Madam President...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u118	Mr Constantinople - I have told you again - she seems afraid of you and does not come to answer you. What can I say?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u119	And Mr. Cameroon!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u120	And Mr. Cameroon. Do you want me to answer you now? Is that my responsibility? Please! We must not delay legislative work any longer.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u121	Madam President...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u122	Mr Constantinople, there is no procedure on questions which are not discussed. What am I supposed to do? Can I invent her? Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u123	Ladies and gentlemen, we are now on the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: "Following the Framework Agreement on Partnership and Cooperation between the European Union and the Member States on the one hand and Mongolia on the other". The draft was adopted by a majority in the Standing Committee. It is introduced to the House in accordance with the procedure laid down in Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure, namely those who object to the ratification of this agreement. However, because a ministerial amendment has been tabled, 1003/12, I would firstly suggest that those who voted against or expressed reservations, as well as the Minister responsible, for five minutes and then that the amendment should be discussed with the Parliamentary Representatives, the rapporteurs, the Special Rapporteurs and the Minister responsible should speak for five minutes. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u124	Madam President, I would like to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u125	I hear you, Mr. Kefaliannis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u126	Thank you, Madam President. As you have rightly said, we have a special procedure today, as we proceed with ratification of an international treaty and in accordance with Rules 108 and 112 of the Rules of Procedure of this House, only those who object. However, unfortunately, we are once again witnessing a late amendment when, in fact, we had the express commitment of the Bureau last time that at least in such specific procedures, no amendments will be tabled. You know very well that this - as far as it is late as the fact that it was tabled in an unrelated bill - is also unconstitutional and unconstitutional, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the House. That is why we are proposing to withdraw the amendment. If this is not accepted by you, we call on the President of this House, Mr Voutsi, to come to Stephen, to speak and to say whether he is accepting an amendment which is irrelevant to the draft legislation to be discussed - in fact - to tell us whether he accepts it and whether or not his express commitment is validated that he would not bring an amendment which is irrelevant and delayed. You will forgive me, Madam President, but if we speak on criminal terms, this is a rape of the parliamentary procedure by means of the customary and professional conduct on the part of the government. And, unfortunately, we are witnessing this process as a whole and by a majority. Unfortunately, there are delayed amendments. We have measured that 70% of ministerial amendments for 2016 were delayed. For 2017 this number tends to be 80%. I think that under no circumstances should the Bureau and you personally accept it. We therefore call for the withdrawal of the amendment. And if not, we call on Mr Voutsi, the President of Parliament, to address the matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u127	Mr. Kefaliannis, as far as I'm concerned, that's wrong, but it's because we're in emergencies. You did it yourself, all the previous governments did it. Don't show any innovation in SYRIZA's government.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u128	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u129	These amendments are coming for specific reasons and they are urgent and are being made at the last minute. The Minister will explain it. I, at the moment, know that this is a constant tactic, I do not have the power to say that I do not accept. I don't even have the power over this. On unconstitutionalism now: If that were the case, there would be no law of law in Parliament over the years.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u130	Madam President, the floor, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u131	So, don't put that kind of thing on. Unless you're putting them on the table for reasons of amazement. But we have made such a misuse of the argument about the amendments, which I think the public is also aware of what SYRIZA is doing with the amendments. Did he have a bad cause? He couldn't bring it? So, he wants to give you a vote? What exactly is it worth? It doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u132	Madam President, I would like to speak for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u133	We're not going to have a dialogue. You spoke. You'll talk again.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u134	Madam President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u135	Let's hear Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u136	Madam President, you are speaking right. But you are speaking in part. We didn't come here to make it difficult for you...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u137	Let's say it one more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u138	...and personally put you on issues, which you can't get over. But, while you are right to say what you have said, you are wrong with regard to the specific procedures of Rules 108 and after the Rules of Procedure of the House, which have to do with the abbreviated legislative procedures. There is a brief discussion procedure here, because the text is a simple ratification. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u139	We have also dealt with this, Mr Loverdos, and I was in the Bureau asking for a list of speakers and others.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u140	Oh, no. In the past, Madam President...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u141	We've said it a thousand times.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u142	Please. No, I want to tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u143	Don't cut glauca...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u144	I want to tell you one more thing. Because in the past I happened to be here and to know that by excessive exception these articles had been used, we have an innovation of your own, a modernism to do this as a rule. And we have said that since you are doing so as a rule, until the Rules of Procedure change, you will also change the procedure for the debate. And because you don't even do that, you're forcing us to hold reservations. We're going to vote on the draft law brought by Mr. Katrugalos. But Mr Constantinople has been forced and made a reservation to have the right to speak, because you are doing this to us. And we will exercise that right. But you must propose another procedure to this House. We therefore disagree with the procedure you have proposed. We have the right, because we have wisely done - I have initiated this practice - to express reservations on texts that we wish to support. And we have the right to speak and Mr. Kegeroglu and I...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u145	Mr. Loverdo, all right. We get it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u146	Oh, no. So I suggest you change the procedure you suggested...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u147	You said the same thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u148	...as an economy we have interpreted the Rules of Procedure with other colleagues there and once with you, in consultation with Mr. Voutsi. So now change the procedure you are proposing, to get all the parties the right to speak - and what was not provided for in the committee - otherwise...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u149	And the MPs.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u150	Of course the MPs too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u151	Mr. Loverdo, you didn't hear what I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u152	Mr. Kegeroglu wants...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u153	Did you hear what I said? They will all take the floor and rapporteurs and speakers and parliamentary representatives. You didn't hear.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u154	To be a normal process, then.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u155	Sure. I propose a procedure...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u156	We're leaving the brief procedure. That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u157	So I suggested the procedure, but you've come, because you're always badwilling to the Bureau...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u158	Open a list.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u159	Wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u160	It'll open a list.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u161	All three of them will speak, not only the parliamentary representatives.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u162	It'll open a list. Is that what you mean?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u163	No, there's no listing in the contract.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u164	No, there's a list. But this is our disagreement.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u165	I said, those three, if they want, will ask for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u166	No, Madam President, that's not the case.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u167	How not? That's what we're suggesting.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u168	After bringing an amendment, do you accept...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u169	I told you, international conventions don't have a list. So they'll talk to those who are...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u170	Contracts never had any amendments!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u171	But it's not a contract! Don't go crazy on us now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u172	Calm down! They will be speaking against and against the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u173	Oh, no. So you're not okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u174	All those who want to talk about the amendment will talk about it. It's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u175	No, Madam President. To formulate my proposal without speaking on my voice.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u176	Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u177	My suggestion to you is as follows...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u178	All right, I heard it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u179	No, you didn't, because you talk when I talk. How did you hear her?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u180	If you don't hear what I've said.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u181	No, I heard what you said, and it's wrong what you said.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u182	In your opinion.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u183	I invite you to apply the Rules of Procedure on an economic basis, as other colleagues have done once in my experience. As an amendment has been tabled late, and so on, and so on. - it was said by Mr Kefaloniann - that you accept our proposal to open up a normal list, to take the floor and the parties that have agreed to - apart from rapporteurs and parliamentary representatives - and to make a normal, democratic parliamentary procedure for Mrs Gerovali's amendment. If you refuse to do so, you must tell me which article in the Rules of Procedure you are supporting your refusal. Otherwise, I'm going to put forward a proposal to take the floor...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u184	So you're threatening me?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u185	...for the violation of the Rules of Procedure, and this debate will not end, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u186	It won't end. It's okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u187	Madam President, I would like to make a clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u188	How many times are you gonna talk now?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u189	The minute you owe me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u190	We all understood it, Mr. Kefaliannis. So if everyone takes the floor to say the same thing, what will it help?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u191	To facilitate the debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u192	I'm listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u193	Madam President, in addition to the issues that have been raised, we believe first of all that this amendment should be withdrawn. In the absence of a withdrawal, however, the procedure proposed by Mr Lovers must be followed. From that point on, however, even this will follow, because it creates a precedent and a bad precedent...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u194	Is this the first time?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u195	The SYRIZA Government is the second and third and fifth and sixth times. This is the first time in this parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u196	On the contrary, we suggest that those who want to speak should speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u197	It is a bad precedent, which, unfortunately, is the first time in SYRIZA Government. There wasn't that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u198	All right, when we change the Rules of Procedure, we'll do that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u199	Madam President, there may have been derogations in previous parliamentary periods, but there was no such procedure in international sanctions. It's a bad precedent, and we denounce it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u200	Do you want me to tell you how many have happened in the past?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u201	Yeah, tell us. Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u202	Dozens.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u203	Ask the services and you'll see what happened to sanctions.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u204	All right, I'll have them here to come get them, so we don't have to open a dialogue again.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u205	Ask, because you were not here to see what was going on, Madam President. You weren't a congressman at the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u206	Do you want me to take a picture of them, see on the terms of your own governments how many amendments there were?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u207	Sure. And we'll compare.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u208	No, no. In international sanctions you can tell us.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u209	Well, come see them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u210	None.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u211	In international sanctions to tell us, not in bills.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u212	On the contrary, this time...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u213	None of you raised an insurgent then, Madam President. But you weren't here to see what was going on.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u214	Don't expose yourself. The Rules of Procedure say that it does not open a list when ratification of contracts is made. We must respect this.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u215	Because there are no amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u216	It's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u217	And the Rules of Procedure say that no amendments are tabled to such contracts.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u218	We say, those who wish, that is, the Parliamentary Representatives...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u219	One part of the Rules of Procedure will be applied? I don't understand!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u220	...the speakers, the rapporteurs of all the parties, if they want to speak on the amendments, to speak. What's your problem now? What do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u221	I, Madam President, as a Member of Parliament, would like to take the floor and place myself on the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u222	He won't open a list.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u223	As a congressman, I want to speak. You will not apply half the Rules of Procedure! You will apply the whole Rules of Procedure!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u224	Mr Georgiotta, raise your hand if you have so great a point to say about the amendment, as well as other colleagues, and here we are. List won't open. Raise your hand.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u225	How am I supposed to talk? I am neither a parliamentary representative nor a rapporteur...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u226	Where does this come from?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u227	Here, it's the Bureau. List doesn't open. Okay? That's for granted.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u228	Madam President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u229	The Minister wants the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u230	Madam Secretary, tell us about the emergency.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u231	Three hours we ask the questions, five of the procedure. You seem to have a problem listening to your voice. There's something wrong with you. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u232	First of all, I would like to ask you not to make a hypocritical fuss because it is mainly done for reasons of impression. However, I understand that we have a sanction and I come here today with an amendment. And, of course, I know the rules, as we all know them, and the Bureau of course. However, for hypocritical purposes, I would like to remind you of a few things. I was here before discussing the topical and urgent questions and from a number of questions, outside the question of questioning, raised again the question of the amendments brought by SYRIZA, the bad legislation and how much the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure of Parliament and so on. I just want to refer to two elements in order to stop the tale, because it is a great story that you have never seen them before, and so on. In 2016, three hundred three amendments in ninety bills...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u233	Mrs Papanatsiou told us that yesterday.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u234	I'll say it again because you didn't understand. Repeat.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u235	Every day, the same tape!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u236	In 2015, a hundred thirty amendments to twenty-four bills over a total of thirty-four. In 2014 - which was not SYRIZA, but was PASOK - New Democracy - two hundred sixty-seven amendments had been tabled to forty-eight bills. By analogy, from the two years of the SYRIZA government, the amendments are less than in proportion to the fact that there is an increase in the number of bills. And I will put forward in the Minutes many of the practical features of where these amendments have been brought down, which exceptional issues have been settled, so that there can be this information in detail for anyone who needs it, so that this debate can finally be stopped. And, of course, all the bills submitted by the government in recent years follow good legislation rules. We have never had an article, ladies and gentlemen, a bill, so that no one can disagree with an article. This was the case in the PASOK-New Democracy conflict. This government legislates with good legislature. There are articles, abbreviations, as in the bills.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u237	And then we woke up!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u238	These are for the part of the impressions that we want to create. I will also table in the minutes the detailed list of amendments tabled by us, when, in what drafts, figures, rules and so on. [[Mr DIMITRIOS KRIMASTINOS]] As far as urgency is concerned - for the substance of the amendment I shall then speak, since we agree - as you have seen, ladies and gentlemen, the issue of this amendment is the crises.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u239	Mr President, could I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u240	To finish, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u241	I'm not addressing you. I have addressed to the President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u242	I should now like to explain the urgency of the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u243	Madam Minister, we have not reached the amendment. Then.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u244	No, I'll explain the emergency.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u245	Whenever the Bureau says. I'm continuing with the emergency.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u246	There's a president. Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u247	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u248	Mr. Loverdo, there's a president.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u249	Mr. Loverdo, I've been in love.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u250	Do you have a president, Mr. Loverdos? Please. We need to find a solution. Let's have a class.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u251	Sit down!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u252	Sit down? Who are you, Mr. Loverdo? Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u253	Mr. Loverdo, I fell in love with colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u254	I invoke the Bureau. Mr President, a class! Has Mr Loverdes taken over the Bureau, and did we not understand that?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u255	Wait a minute. Sit down, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u256	We need to find a solution. We all want to find a solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u257	Sit down!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u258	Please. You're going to tell me "sit down". You're not ashamed, Professor! Get out of here!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u259	Mr. Xydakis, sit down, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u260	Mr. President, we were in the...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u261	Mr President, I ask for the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u262	Let the Minister finish first.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u263	What do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u264	I ask the floor after the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u265	Good. Please, Mr. Loverdo, what do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u266	He spoke abusively on my face. I want to talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u267	Yeah, let me figure out what's going on. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u268	Mr President, I was interrupted. I didn't have time to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u269	Let the Minister finish and then, Mr. Xydakis, you have the floor. It's not over.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u270	No, no. We should have been somewhere else.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u271	Will you interrupt me, Mr. Loverdos? Why? I'm talking. You'll talk in a minute. Nobody told you not to talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u272	Mr. Loverdo, finish and then you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u273	I have asked my colleagues why the amendment is urgent. I'll answer that. I will not go into the substance of the amendment. But I will answer my colleagues as I have to. As you have seen, the amendment concerns a number of technical arrangements, mainly concerning the preparation of the Crisis Communication of the Directors-General, horizontally in the public sector, for the Directorates-General for Economic and Administrative Affairs. It is a proclamation which a suffocating framework obliges it to come out in the next ten days. I made a great effort to table the amendment yesterday. There was a delay from the General Accounting Office of the State and some other such technical procedures, as you know, while my amendment was here yesterday. It didn't make it possible. Next bill, as you know, we will definitely have a vote after at least ten days. There are commitments, as you know, not just from our own programme. We must therefore be consistent. That need forced me to come to ratification. It's not pleasant for me either. Trust me. However, I can explain to you and nobody wants to break regulations, it is an amendment which does not have any substance as a matter on which one can easily disagree. They are technical arrangements, because there is a law that preceded it and the debate took place there. Here we can see two technical issues and move on. This whole story, and the 'extortion', and words that are heard in here, I think it is just for impression.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u274	Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u275	Mr President, we had a debate on the Rules of Procedure. You were not here, and you were quite surprised by this inconvenience. The position of the Minister in the debate on the Rules of Procedure, which is not a matter of her own, is not a matter of the Government, it is a matter of Parliament - it has made some basic misunderstandings that all Members, all parties, must have them in mind in the same way. The most important misunderstanding is that we are not discussing the subject of the amendments here. If we talked about it, would I have to ask her, of the numbers she mentioned, how many are late and how many are time-consuming? Do you understand? But we are not talking about what you did not say in full. We're talking about something else. Mr President, you know very well that we are here on the basis of Rule 108 next of the Rules of Procedure on the abbreviated legislative procedures. It is in this spirit that the Rules of Procedure come under the Rules of Procedure. Only those who have raised objections or reservations speak. We have said that, since the government has put a weapon to the abbreviated legislative procedures to make regular legislative procedures, we will be reluctant to have the right to all of us here. You understand the difference, even though a doctor. Other extraordinary, other concise, other tactics. The Democratic Alliance will be placed with Mr Constantinople and me. We are on this side ready to deal with government smuggling. We are also addressing the parliamentary majority on this issue today, which is once again happening. In the past, as an old parliamentarian, you remember that the amendment to summarised legislative procedures came very rarely, and here is the rule. If we agree or disagree, the debate will show it. We might disagree.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u276	Obviously.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u277	Because this is not about the Democratic Alliance, which has intelligently done what it has done, but is about the House, we are asking you to give this House the opportunity to sit down. To take the floor beyond the rapporteurs and parliamentarians, who were a retreat right of the previous President, but whoever other Member wants to be able to speak and express himself. We ask you to do this, because otherwise the subject of the procedure will stop the whole debate. I have sent you a request from me and from Mr Kegeroglu to put on a point of order. We will play this debate for a long time. On the contrary, we shall proceed, although distorted at the initiative of the Government, to the debate, if you will also give other Members who have expressed their views on the question - Kegeroglou, Georgias and others - to be able to say their views as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u278	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u279	You're welcome, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u280	I asked for the floor on staff for Mr Loverdou's open-minded style, who called me "the polluter". I'd expect it to withdraw. That's not what I'm asking. Mr. Loverdos, defender of social automation, might also be a medal for me to call me that. I want him to stay here. It's over. Let him take the weight of the characterization himself if he wants to withdraw. I'm not asking him. I want a solution. I do not want this bad climate to exist in Parliament. Indeed, it is important to put an amendment on the ratification. The Minister supported the urgency of the matter and the need for the implementation of the new law, for the administration to be renewed, for administrative reform to do its job. Secondly, I would remind my fellow Members that in past sanctions - I was a parliamentary representative here - we did not have any amendments and the ministers refused to put an amendment to ratification. We are trying to keep working on measures of parliamentary order and regularity. We're constantly trying. We're not trying less than previous governments, rather more. In emergencies there were past governments, in emergencies, and now. So find a solution. Mrs Christodoulopoulos has created a situation in Skopje before you, Mr President. I recommend that you continue this proposal and set a reasonable number of Members so that this debate can be concluded. From each party to join one or two MPs to speak. To respect the Member's right to speak and to stop this interlude, because I very much fear that there is a hypocritical tension and we are creating issues from where we could very easily fix them. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u281	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u282	You're welcome, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u283	Mr President, I think hypocritical is not in tension. The hypocrisy lies in the reasons on which the government claims. A law passed fourteen months ago I don't think it's going back four or five days, when it went to a normal process. There is now a late amendment, as I said before. The bodies have not been heard in committee to express their opinion. In a procedure of special circumstances we are in fact called upon to violate the Rules of Procedure. We as a New Democracy expressly say that we will not regard it as a precedent. We are, of course, condemning this process. Nevertheless, if this process continues, of course we will be involved, but we expressly state that this process will not be recognised as a precedent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u284	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u285	Please again, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u286	I would only like to speak on the personal matter, by the majority parliamentary representative. Listen. There was a conversation. In the first designations Mrs Gerovasili began with the'synthetics' and the others. That's what it sounds like in the House. It's not the end of exaggeration. They sound. You're talking about
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u287	Extortion doesn't sound, Mr. Loverdo. I did not say "extortion" myself.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u288	Okay. You're talking about Mrs Christodoulopoulos also said some of hers. These are heard in the House, they are not personal, so the proceedings are still going on. However, the majority parliamentary representative exploded. I don't have anything with him or want to offend him. And since I reacted, I don't know how now, but I reacted to his surprise. All this must be forgotten and move on. But if I wanted to describe him, because he also made a political designation, I would call him a champion of the political asshole. This is Mr. Xydakis. That's him and that belongs to him. But that doesn't have an affluence on his face. I speak politically.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u289	You called me a pillow. It's a personal designation. Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u290	Champion of the political ass!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u291	Mr. Xydakis, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u292	Social automation.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u293	But you did, but you were saying here. In the rhythmics of going not here.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u294	And here you are a slander. You should go tell other women suffering from AIDS.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u295	Please, Mr. Xydakis. Please! The designations should be stopped on either side, and I hope, Mr Loverdo, that the matter will be closed, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u296	Mr President, on the Rules of Procedure, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u297	Please explain.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u298	I would like to compare the figures that the Minister and the State Secretary yesterday, who said what was happening in the past. I just want to remind you of the revolution that was taking place here when they came, some late amendments but not international conventions. Here, Mr President, there is a complete violation of the Rules of Procedure. Sanctions for international conventions shall be carried out in accordance with the procedure laid down in Rule 112 of the Rules of Procedure. And what exactly does 112 say? "The House approves or rejects bills and legislative proposals that ratify international treaties or international conventions, without changes in the content of the treaties and conventions. We do have a ratification here, where, firstly, there are no more provisions. It shall not penalise contracts, such as on other matters, the words 'and other provisions'.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u299	Mr Bourras, Mr Kefaliannis has been expressed on this, so there is no point in our debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u300	Yes, it has been said, I just want to point out that it is now the Bureau's responsibility. The Bureau must not go any further. And I want to respond to what the Minister said about urgency. If there was an emergency, the Rules of Procedure provide for that. That the government should submit a bill - because this could be an urgent bill - so that in two days' time - one day in the committee to follow the procedures and the next in plenary - we can discuss it rather than run into the accounts, which gives us a vague report. That's the situation.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u301	All right, Mr. Bourra. Although the amendment does not open up the list of speakers, those who want to speak, ask for the floor and will speak. In other words, we are going to end this.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u302	Mr President, I would like you to put me in the system to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u303	Good. You'll have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u304	Mr President, I too request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u305	Mr. President, may I say something?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u306	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u307	Mr President, we as a Democratic Alliance have the floor, because we have made a reservation.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u308	Good. Mr. Constantinople, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u309	Thank you, Mr President. We had made a reservation because we understood that the government would bring in a bill, an article. In fact, we had no objection in this regard. But I would like to make two comments on the cynicity of the government. What does the government say? "After the previous ones, we'll do it." It says the government cynically: 'Since the previous ones have done so.' But are you here to legitimize any mistakes and omissions made in the previous period? You came to change the data and to be the same as the previous ones, you've become worse at all levels. And I'm telling you this because cynicity is about the latest statements, that is, two typical examples. Mr Tsakalotos and the cynicity you are addressing, he said the last time you voted for the tax: 'If he goes to 890, I will go to Maximos, I will resign and end the matter'. He'll reach it in five and a half, and he'll still be Minister. For Mr. Skourletis has been answered by the Prime Minister himself, Mr. Ministers, in unsuspecting time, as Chief of Police, do you know what he said at the time? That those who disagree, that is how Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras, the Prime Minister, had said about the Members of the then government majority, who disagree, but vote, play with the people's intelligence. You'll pay everything here, everything you've said, what you're doing today, you'll pay it, and people will understand it. And a third I have to tell you. Minister, you voted for a law and you vote for it. Fourteen months ago we told you that this law needs to be changed, that ADEDY told you, that the WTO whole thing told you, and you said that there is no problem, and you come now and you vote out your law, gentlemen. You vote for them yourself, you vote for them yourself. And the worst is that in order to build a party state and stay a little longer in power, you will vote everything - there is no problem, I am not nervous about it either for accidents or for nothing - you will vote for it by a law with an article.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u310	That's what you did.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u311	With a law, with an article you'll vote for it all. Easter Sunday? Easter Sunday! But you'll vote for it all, Mr. Catrugale.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u312	That's what you did. In an article, you only do it. You have a patent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u313	Mr. Catrugale, you'll vote for everything. Mr. Katrugale, I do not want to remind you of what Mr. Kammenos said about how to vote on them. I won't remind you, because it's insulting to the Chamber. Mr. Catrugale, we were here, if you remember, after you brought them...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u314	You were afraid of your MPs.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u315	Please, Mr. Catrugale, don't have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u316	I apologize, you're right.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u317	After you bring them in and vote, no problem, Mr. Catrugale, I understand you have to vote and you have to say something. What can you do? I understand that. And what are you doing now? Trying to build a party state. These choices you make, Mrs. Gerovali, through the bill you bring, you try to set up some friends, make them chiefs, party friends or anything else. And thirdly, you have a suspect device. I wonder why you change the status code of civil servants at the n. 3528/2007, which counted the service time of officials who travelled to the Permanent Greek Representation of the European Union or to the institutions of the European Union; These servants, Minister, don't they have the qualifications they went to these offices? Why is it photographic for what? Just for one reason, Minister. From now on your Members will vote, you will only bring provisions to the public administration to set up even a few friends, to give them a party position, so that you can have the alibi of staying in power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u318	Mr. Kouzilos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u319	Mr President, with regard to ratification with Mongolia, it is a formal ratification for partnership and cooperation between the European Union and various countries. These framework agreements between the European Union and various countries cover various areas, such as trade development, security, economics, environmental protection issues, migration issues, tourism and health. This shows the role the European Union has and what it wants to achieve. In the explanatory memorandum - we read - Mongolia has experienced impressive growth as a result of exploiting its huge mining resources. What does the European Union really want? He wants raw materials cheap. That's it. Now we also see Articles 17, 18 and 19, which are customs cooperation facilitating trade and investment. That is what the European Union wants. Now, with regard to what you have said, Mr Minister, it has indeed been seen in this particular convention who have their differences with the European Union. We're asking for something else. We want the Europe of nations, as you want something else. We want Europe of nations and not the Europe of taboo and Brussels. To continue with the amendment, Mr President, or to speak afterwards.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u320	Finish the contract. You will then ask for the floor with the other Members.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u321	I'm done with the contract. Our difference is clearly against the European Union and we are voting against ratification.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u322	Mr President, we are positive on the convention.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u323	Let me read, Minister, a letter from Mrs Manolakou to the President. "Mr. President, Since I cannot attend, because of the work of the 20th meeting of our party, today's plenary session on the debate and vote on the principle, the articles and the whole draft law: 'Undoing the Framework Agreement on Partnership and Cooperation between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Mongolia, of the other part', I would like to inform you that we are voting against the draft law for the reasons we have developed in the debate on the relevant committee. Congressman II Piraeus of the KKE Mr Manolakou Diamandou." Now, Minister, you have the floor. There is no other speaker on the contract.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u324	I'll talk about the contract. I'll say two words later on the other thing. As you know, the title of the Convention is the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and Mongolia. It is therefore a wider agreement than a simple trade agreement. A trade agreement had been concluded between the European Union and that country since 1993, and since 1996 we have had a development cooperation agreement. The difference in this new international treaty is that there is a need to deepen relations and economic and political relations on the part of the European Union. The three main topics to be safeguarded are the broadening of the scope of relations and cooperation with Mongolia in general, as the European Union usually does, the influence on the institutions and democratic governance of that country and, thirdly, the increase in trade and economic cooperation and the exploitation of opportunities in that country. Our country ensures its interests where they are crucial. Let us say, there is a provision to protect products with geographical origin and we have also guaranteed our participation in relevant working groups. As the previous speaker has already mentioned, the differences that were expressed in the debate before the committee were not on the content of the agreement itself but on the position that each party has in relation to the European Union. In view of the above, I think that Parliament should, in fact, ratify this agreement. As a footnote I agree with what has been said before, that respect for the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure is a precondition for ensuring this level of parliamentary dialogue that we want, and yet the style of the debate must be in line with that. And I am not just talking about exchanging personal characters and insults - which we have heard from you and from what you can see is fuelling the enemies of parliamentaryism - but also about the substance of the argument. I heard the amazing argument of the accusation to us that we were cynical, because we were not much better than the previous situation. It's the arsonist's argument that accuses the fireman that he didn't quickly erase the arsonist fire. Indeed, in two years' time we have not been able to correct forty years distortions, delays and multiple violations of parliamentary legitimacy. Let there be restraint, however, on those who led the country where it was led. Already your percentages just justify the consequences of your actions. Self-restraint is therefore necessary, not for your own image - which is known, will not improve or worsen in Greece - but simply to safeguard what I hope is in the minds of most of us here, the need to safeguard the level of parliamentary dialogue. Irrespectively Savages!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u325	Mr Kegeroglu has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u326	Mr President, will the rapporteurs not speak first?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u327	Aren't we gonna talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u328	Am I not going to talk about the amendment first?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u329	On the amendment? You want to talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u330	Am I not going to propose the amendment?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u331	The rapporteurs first speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u332	The rapporteurs on the amendment do not exist.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u333	There are.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u334	I had the impression, Madam President, that you spoke earlier, that you had finished.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u335	I talked about the emergency.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u336	If you want to talk now, talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u337	I think I should explain two things about the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u338	Of course. The Minister for Administrative Reconstruction, Mr. Olga Gerovali, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u339	Before I spoke only of the emergency, of the emergency, Mr President. I would like to say, however, two things, in order to understand what I mentioned, that this amendment comes more technically to correct, rather than interferes with the substance of the law. In the context of our efforts to rebuild public administration, we have undertaken an extremely important commitment, to form a transparent, worthwhile and operational system for selecting heads, a system for selecting heads with clear and specified selection criteria, with a view, of course, to highlighting the most appropriate ones to take up these positions of responsibility. In this context we are already in the final straight ahead of the issue of the relevant notices on the positions of directors-general, and today we are conducting some regulatory interventions aimed at speeding up the process, clarifying the selection criteria and extending the number of candidates who can apply. These are issues that have also arisen after discussions and problems that have appeared since the law was passed. More specifically, the regulations we are introducing today extend the scope for mobilising the training of officials by certified bodies. At the same time, the conditions for participation and mobilisation of responsibility are streamlined when selecting heads. It is clear that a real exercise of responsibility is required in the posts to be filled and not the fact that the standard of law is fulfilled with it. Mr. Constantinople, at the same time I answer your question. This is where the system needs to be streamlined. There were thousands of provisions that said what they were qualified for. It is not forbidden for anyone who you have mentioned to be candidates for these posts, but when there is no relationship to your pre-service with the subject for which you are called upon to perform your role, it is a fictitious term which should not be taken into account. Where there are special cases, of course, we predict how to deal with them. So that's clear. We are also taking action to save time and cost. In other words, in the event of a head of office being established during the first year of the term of office, this post shall not be re-opened but be placed next to the list already chosen by the committee responsible for the remainder of the term of office. In addition, with a view to speeding up the procedure exclusively for the first general addressing notice pursuant to the Staff Code, as replaced by L.4369/2016, it is laid down that the examination of applications for pre-service recognition of candidates who are pending at the time of the issue of the notice should be completed within 10 days of the end of the deadline for applying for candidates to the notice, so that it will then be taken into account in the process of selecting heads. Ladies and gentlemen, as I have already said, we are in the final straight for the start of the process of this great, great project that is before us and is a challenge for all, not only for today but also for the future, the radical renewal of the public sector. Contrary to short-lived systems of selection of heads of government - not to recall and without a choice - which have failed and remained inapplicable, our intention is to go through the theory in practice and to make judgments, to build administrative services with merit, with transparency, equality and, above all, a priority and a project for the interests and services of citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u340	Thank you. They have said that Members will speak of the amendment. Kegeroglou, Georgantas, Kuzilos. If they want others to say they want to talk, they can do it. Would you like to speak next or now, Mr. Loverdos, as a parliamentary representative?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u341	Let our colleagues begin.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u342	Mr President, the rapporteurs should start on the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u343	First let colleagues speak and then the rapporteurs speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u344	That's what I said. The rapporteurs and the parliamentary representatives can then speak if they want to. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u345	Mr President, first of all let Mr Katrugalo know that the bill cannot be voted on if he is gone. He'll be back. It cannot be voted on in its absence. But let me comment on what the Minister said. Let me repeat that the re-writing whether they want it or do not want it by some centres trying to rewrite history, it has achievements, successes and, above all, economic and social progress for the people. At the same time, of course, problems have been created or have remained inherited from the past inherited by Transmigration, strangleholds and dark sides. SYRIZA today, instead of trying to deal with distortions and problems, only copys the dark aspects of post-multipleism and does nothing to stop or support successes and achievements. That's his characteristic. And because Mr Katrugalos said so, one of the mistakes of postpopulation was that he used people like him, who only look at their personal positions in key positions, as he himself was placed by the PASOK government. I move on to the issue of Mrs Gerovalis, who, in the past few days, did not come here - badly - to answer a question which I put to her about the policing of molecules in specific notices, saying she is not competent. And I have to say, once again, that the Minister for Administrative Reform, who is "inspecting" the ASAP, is responsible for everything that is happening in connection with the notices, modulations and recruitments at our place, regardless of the individual ministries. I shall therefore submit to the minutes of this House officially two of the five notices - and the others are at your disposal, and I do not have any applause - and of course the modulation of specific candidates who, by means of a notice, differ even three hundred modalities in order to show exactly what is happening today with the modulations made by the various bodies. These specific notices are two. I'll get the other three, though, because, really, the Department of Administrative Reform really needs to see the matter. Mrs Georgiovasili, how did you have time, the whole bill and politics to give it to the 'NATIONAL' yesterday and to have it first page today and you did not have time to bring the amendment forward? Is it possible to tell us that you did not have time to work with "NATIONS" or with any other newspaper to do this job?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u346	Didn't I tell you?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u347	Someone tells me in the morning charming: 'But since what Mrs Gerovas says, have they already been published in the 'Government Newspaper' and you're talking about it in Parliament afterward?' I did not understand the charm he made, describing "NATIONAL" "Government Newspaper" and I thought he had already taken FEC the subject. In any case, the amendment...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u348	We're not there yet.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u349	Why does the Rules of Procedure say that there should be no amendments to international conventions on internal matters? But so they don't know our ribbons abroad. Now they will learn in Mongolia that, in order to put the Director-General of Economic Affairs in the Ministry of Finance, we have abolished the requirement that he be the head of department, that he has made director, that he has five years' pre-service, and we say that three years is enough, but if there are none of our own in three years, they are both enough. Do you understand what we are going to export to Mongolia through this amendment to the international convention? We are also being humiliated outside, which is why the Rules of Procedure have provided for this. In ratification of an international convention there is an amendment to the previous parliamentary term, because you are invoking it alone. In this period there are plenty of them. But it is not a numerical matter. We will either decide that in international conventions we do not - but it is a matter of one or two days - or we will decide that we are putting in a different process. So, if today, by concession, we have taken the floor. We disagree with the farewell article, because it is an amendment with five articles, the whole bill. We fully disagree with this reduction in the qualifications that one needs to have to go for the Director-General of the Ministry of Finance over the two years, i.e. two years' time may also be a pedigree - I am now going to the extreme - without any rules, without any conditions. Unfortunately, we are downgrading the issue of public administration and the need for upgrading and armouring. In other parts of the articles, there may be someone with whom one can agree and, of course, other articles have been published or published. But when in a proper institutional context there is the 'bouquet' window, then what will happen? Is it possible to believe that all the other things you say about a worthwhile placement can be applied? It can't be done. That is why we call for the amendment to be withdrawn, and if you insist, because of the specifics it contains, which we shall obviously not vote on. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u350	Thank you, too. Mr. Georgiod, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u351	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the previous tension could have been avoided if, in the public administration at least, we all understand that they are very important and are distributed at all levels of policy, there was a timetable on your part, a timeframe, a time-frame that would be possible for stakeholders, scientific bodies and, of course, for effective consultation on matters. You have tried to justify tabling today's amendment on urgency, in a way that I at least could not understand. And, of course, I could not understand it, because there are certain data on your legislative initiatives in relation to public administration. The specific law you are amending today is 4369/2016. Modified in February 2016. Fourteen months later, in essence, no part of this piece of your legislation has been implemented. Only some circulars have come out, some directions have been delayed. To tell the truth, they were given by you, they were not given by the previous Minister. However, the implementation of either the organograms or the lists of positions, either the selection of heads or the evaluation, is still on paper. And while this whole process is on paper and while all the dates you have announced are practically overrun, you are bringing us as an emergency today's issue, which I cannot understand, but I can understand its feasibility. These are interventions which have to do with the choice of the Directors-General and, in particular, the horizontal positions, i.e. economic and human resources, the most important positions. And while you have announced that there will be a notice within the days, you come at the last minute and you change the data, you change the terms in an unexpected way, which I think could have been avoided. We are talking about a government, which is the law on the State Staff Register - which you have voted for and you have voted for as a major reform - even today you have not implemented it. It is a law that had to function as of 31 July 2016 and in any case as of 1 September 2016 to fill gaps in positions in the agencies from that register. It doesn't work, we don't hear anything about it. Do you think this isn't important? Has he been there? It's the same law. It has been a long time since it had to be implemented. And suddenly there is an amendment to ratify an agreement on the relationship between the European Union and Mongolia - public officials will laugh, as if there were no other way of legislating Parliament - and with specific provisions that I do not have the time to mention, I think there is, in fact, an intervention in the process as they knew it and knew it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, in a minute. In particular, the proposed regulation 3 for me is a regulation that conceals serious feasibility. It is essentially an authorisation granted by presiding decrees to the Ministers to define a parallel evaluation system. Madam Minister, I do not think there is any reason to make this whole process. You could, in fact, - because I did not really understand the urgency - to withdraw it, to consult it, to listen to the institutions. You say the civil servant must always be heard. Well, bring it up, for civil servants to hear, for their bodies to be heard, for their collective bodies and then for us to have an organised debate. It is a very important matter. They are not the five paragraphs of an order. It is that on the basis of these interventions, the Directors-General will be appointed for the coming years. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u352	Thank you. Mr. Kouzilos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u353	Thank you very much, Mr President. As far as the amendment is concerned, it is indeed a mini bill. It has five articles that change important issues of L.4369/2016. When he had come to the committee for a vote, several of his articles had voted in favour. We had, however, noted basic ambiguities that existed in this law. This is where we want a lot of clarification. That is why we say it is a mini bill, because too many clarifications are needed. We now see that you are changing the molecules from 60 to 40. What's actually happening? Are you trying to promote some people? Why is that purpose? Some people have given very great weight to the seminars, some people have had to attend some seminars. What about these molecules now? With regard to Article 1 of the amendment, we have a position of leader. Is it foreseen? Why is this all done with ministerial decisions - that is why we are talking about ambiguities - and they have not been foreseen so far? With regard to Article 2 of the amendment amending the provisions of Law No4369, no clear deadlines are set again and - as it goes on - the heads are appointed by a ministerial decision. This actually increases - as you accuse the New Democracy and the PASOK - the responsibilities and roles of each Minister. We do not consider Article 3 to be a bad provision, but we will still need some clarification. With regard to Article 4, which is an amendment to Law 4178/2013, who will define specific qualifications and what will they be? Article 5, in fact for us, is the continuation of what you have been doing for many months when you are legislating. You're trying to build a party army, a party state. You understand within two minutes how many questions have been raised from a simple amendment, which you say, which is a mini bill for us. We believe that this amendment is not so innocent and is photographic on several occasions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u354	Mr Saridis, have you asked for the floor on the amendment?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u355	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u356	What's the show? Are the Parliamentary Representatives first?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u357	I am rapporteur, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u358	As a Member you will speak. Do you want to speak as rapporteur?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u359	Let the procedure be observed, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u360	We had a list of MPs. If he wants to speak as a Member...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u361	I am rapporteur, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u362	Good. Mr. Loverdo, would you like to speak as a parliamentary representative? The rapporteurs should be able to speak, and then they should speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u363	Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u364	Backwards, Mr. President. First the rapporteurs and finally the parliamentary representatives.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u365	Look, if Parliamentary Representatives are asked to speak after the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u366	I'd prefer it. It's better.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u367	Mr Constantinople, you have the floor for five minutes as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u368	Thank you. I am given the opportunity to speak on two points relating to the procedure for the timely questions. Look, Mr President, before I saw Mr Tsakalotos go around the hallways of the House and at the same time he had to come to answer questions and stated a workload. I think it is insulting to both you and us.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u369	Mr. Constantopoulos, I will interrupt you because you have put it on staff. This workload has been repeatedly explained that it is not a workload reason and is invoked by many ministers, not one. We've seen it repeatedly, so don't break doors open. Please, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u370	In my speech on the ratification of the convention, two issues which I think Mr Kegeroglu has explained very well. Madam Minister, what you are saying today will prove to be in a few months' time, namely who will become directors-general and whether or not they will become directors for two years or three. Whatever you say today, no matter what we say, it will prove very soon. But, Mr. Kegeroglu, I don't know if you've read it, if you've seen what he's testifying to you, do you have it in front of you? - He submitted to you in his speech a comparative table. I would ask that the relevant Minister be given. Here we have this - to see the merits of SYRIZA, Syrizacracy and evaluation - the same persons in structures that operate on your own responsibility, have five different structures of five different ratings. Same face!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u371	Don't you understand how that works? They're other criteria.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u372	No, Minister. It's a symmetry of this. I'm telling you something, I'm telling you to get the list. Same face, it's not something that's hidden. Mr. Kegeroglu submitted this to you a moment ago. Demetra, not to tell you the last name, which is a social worker, took six hundred molecules to the Municipality of Transformation nine hundred molecules, to the Municipality of Greek – Argyroupoli nine hundred molecules and to the NGO "Hedra" seven hundred thirty-five molecules. What's that? You, where do you want transparency, ladies and gentlemen? I understand that the MPs have a responsibility, but they haven't put their fingers on. Her finger has been put into it by the leading team and the government to have these. How can we trust you? And you're saying it's plastic? So, those who have gone to the European Commission - for the years that have gone - and have worked on an object which we all think could help the Greek administration, were their years fictitious? If you say so, okay. So these people won't score? Then why would someone go abroad and come back? Do we not want people to send abroad, with transparent procedures, with evaluation, to use them to get more qualifications, experiences and return to public administration? Or aren't they ours? Aren't Annell here, SYRIZA, is there anyone? What does the law you have to do with it - and now you are voting out - a year and a half ago, indifferent to the provisions of the Staff Code, procedures, criteria at all levels? You voted for him, you said we had to change him. When he told you - let us, why did we tell you that this law - the ADEDY and the WTO, why were you not convinced then and give me an explanation why you, the Members themselves, will vote and you will be voting? What changed to what we told you then and now? He wants an explanation, Minister. Otherwise, all the rest is in your mind, to build a few more general directors, while we're in power, to have a party client list. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u373	Thank you. Mr. Ioannis Saridis has the floor and I am told that Mr. Katrugalos is coming back.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u374	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, you're legislating, as if you'd abandon the government tomorrow. You're negotiating like you're a one-day government. You rule, as if you were not interested in the national interest. You have brought the division into political life where consensus is required. Enable a law that we have passed fourteen months ago, you have had it inactive, and you change with the activation of terms and rules, building an entire party army. That's what you're doing. Ladies and gentlemen, we have heard the words 'urgent' and 'urgent' in here so many times, and I reluctant to use them. I do not think it is necessary to stop this infringing behaviour in this Chamber, not showing respect to the representatives of the Greek people. This is because there is a serious chance that you will not take them seriously. However, this amendment with a general number of 1003 and a specialist 12 clearly proves that you are not taking your very critical and vital obligations for democracy. The only reason why the Centroon Union has not left this Chamber today is respect, which we still have, in the face of the responsible efforts of the Foreign and Defence Ministers, to keep a serious, measurable and, above all, honesty in the work of the very critical Committee on National Defence and Foreign Affairs. However, Mr Katrugalos today accepted this amendment. With respect, therefore, in an effort which all the members of this committee are making to maintain the necessary climate of understanding among us, we remain in order to explain in every way and every tone to the members of the rest of the government that we must keep from their legislative tragedies the bills of these two critical ministries, foreign and defence. We demand that you withdraw the amendment immediately and find somewhere else to put it. Is that the emergency today? In my opinion, it is urgent to find a solution to this tragedy, which is progressing daily in the Armed Forces and is called the result of the sloppy and violent imposition of the military union. That was another tragic amendment, the unacceptable amendment of last July, like the one you tabled here today. These are a sad sight. They're harming our executives' morale, and this thing should stop. But how can it stop, when those who can do something, eat together? The surprise you have caused, with the acceptance of Amendment No 1003/12, torpedoes many months and laborious efforts. There's got to be an end to this somewhere. I have nevertheless decided to remain in the Chamber and to ask you two - three questions and to make some comments, to which I expect an answer. Have you wondered, ladies and gentlemen of the government, what can it mean by the fact that you are leaving Members of Parliament from parliamentary procedures? Have you wondered, gentlemen of the government, why the seats of this House are permanently empty? On the other hand, you did some research to find out why the Greeks don't vote? Have you tried to understand why it is far from the democratic processes so much of the Greek population? The disrespect of the Rules of Procedure, the abuse of exceptional legislative instruments, the lack of respect for the work of the parliamentary committees there lead to these results. They promote citizens to indifference. That's why they prefer to see reality than to know what we're voting in here for them without them. Tell the trade unions that! Tell them that it is your policy that the world has dismantled and is now consciously indifferent. But you're served by this too. It finally works for the first time on the left to sit on the couch, from where you've been supposedly for their own good. And after they gave you power, you tell them your way now to indulge in, to do what they don't see. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will conclude in a minute, Mr President. You disappoint the world and convince him that it's not worth trying, since you too are using the past's tactics, and that's how you legalized them. That's the greatest evil you've ever done. If the amendment is not withdrawn, we will vote against it by refusing to comment on its content, which, of course, has been understood, is just as unacceptable as your legislative behaviour. Gentlemen of the government, you are fully responsible for how our fellow citizens have come to feel that they have no choice, as with your so-called and your actions they have understood that it governs a SYRIZA – ANEL, which is opposed to a good right digestion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u375	Thank you, too. Mr. Stamatis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u376	Mr President, I will be brief. I would just like to add to what the previous Members have said about the way in which you introduce bills and amendments to the House, that you have replaced the first formula you had found with the acts of legislation and after you have seen that the PPP cycle has been completed, now enter the new method with the amendments. Yesterday, Parliament suffered a terrible blow once again when discussing amendments which had nothing to do with the bill being discussed and which most of which you cannot justify, as well as the haste that you have to discuss and vote in the House. And today we have one, but it has all the elements of the previous method. You are introducing an amendment which attempts a section in the field of public administration. The simple question that can be asked here, ladies and gentlemen, is: First of all, is there something urgent? Second, you change your own law. Can you explain why you voted for the previous and why this change is needed? Thirdly, when you passed your own public administration law a year ago, we also heard the views of the trade unions. Now why did you get over that? Why have you avoided this process, so that we too, who are not civil servants, can hear what is happening? I conclude by noting that there is a contradiction, Minister. You claim that those who are to be promoted to carry out their duties in the matter should be promoted. And you come to the last layout and plan a three-year or two-year reduction in pre-service. In other words, you say in the first place: 'But is it possible for someone who is absent from their duties to be placed?'. And when in the latter provision it is decided to place someone in a very important position, that is where you reduce the conditions. That's a contradiction. It's obvious that something suits you. There's something you want to serve. You must know, however, that what you are doing today can be sorted out. Do not think that these will go unnoticed, neither will the goals you want to serve. I would ask you very much, because there is no sense of urgency and precisely because it will be voted on by an article, with a treaty, to withdraw it. Bring it to another House session. That won't hurt you. It'll do you good.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u377	Mr President, may I have the floor, please?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u378	Mr. Catrugale, would you like to make a legislative improvement now?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u379	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u380	Improving where, Mr President? Improved sanction?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u381	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u382	No, just in the title. It is precisely because this amendment will be included, if it is voted on, that the words 'and other provisions' should be added to the title. That's the legal improvement.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u383	Mr. Katsikis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u384	Thank you, Mr President. I apologise to this House for my late arrival. There was an obligation on the subject of information on the negotiation by Mr Tsakalotos. That is why I am taking the floor late. I would like to say that we fully agree with the amendment tabled, the one and only amendment, believing that the Staff Code, Madam and Minister, is the highest legislative text which regulates the operation in the public sector in its full range. Therefore, because the public sector with its pathogens is what it has been working and continues to employ the current government, we are happy to accept this amendment. We justify it as legitimate. Of course, the issue of urgency, if and if so, indeed, and personally and as Independent Greeks, we believe that it has had to be here for a long time, because structural changes through modifications to the Financial Code will be the starting point and the incentive for better functioning of the public sector, public officials and all those who, in any case, are currently serving the closest and wider public sector. With the proposed provisions, ladies and gentlemen, these amendments are therefore introduced on the selection procedure for heads, following the arrangements introduced by No.4369/2016. These regulations, in particular, aim to speed up the process and clarify the selection criteria, as well as to extend the number of applicants who can apply. Article 4 of Law 4275/2014 on the measurement of the service time of officials for the purposes of applying the provisions of the choice of Heads of Staff. They are regulated - and are important - topics relating to the examination of outstanding applications for pre-service recognition for graduation at the time of a notice of Heads of State and Directorates-General. There are also issues relating to the establishment of the Selection Board for Bodies in which no Head of Directorate-General is provided. Finally, it is foreseen that a member of the staff who is selected and put in a position of responsibility shall not have the right to apply for a candidate's place of responsibility for his or her choice of own or lower level of responsibility if he or she has not spent two thirds of his or her term of office or for any level of office if he or she has not elapsed for two years as Head of Exemption. And I close by saying that I believe that this amendment will serve and give the opportunity to test those who are assessed as such who can offer their services. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u385	Thank you, too. Mr. Dannelis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u386	Thank you, Mr President. I think few now disagree that one of the main malaises that have led us to many and bankruptcy is clientism and partisanism and that the abundance and the predominance of the state, starting from our national aging to our day, has led to this bankruptcy that I have referred to. So, whatever it is about the restructuring of the public and administration, I imagine, we all agree that it requires a different and serious approach, a comprehensive design, thought and, obviously, consultation. It is no coincidence that we are amending this proposal decisions that we have only taken a year ago. This alone shows that the desecrated, the fragmentary leads to failures. The reasons for Parliament's methodology, which does not allow us to vote in favour, nor to discuss, as we should, such legislation, I do not think they promote and help to deal with such serious issues and, of course, to reach agreement between us. We cannot vote on this amendment. And because it has a particular seriousness and gravity, as I have said before, in the redesign and restructuring of the functioning of the administration, I think it is worth, Minister, withdrawing it and discussing it as we should discuss it in the next week. That is not the delay, which is damaging the functioning of the public sector. I do not think, therefore, that such an important amendment can be annexed to the ratification of an international agreement, which we must vote on in today's sitting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u387	Thank you, too. Parliamentary representatives have said that they want Mr Loverdos to speak. Please, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u388	I must have the time of the normal parliamentary procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u389	We said five minutes to everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u390	I need to talk more.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u391	And the Minister said so. If you want more now, we'll see. But that's how it was decided.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u392	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, Mr Deputy Minister, I would like to remind you - and you, colleague, who was the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs - that the Democratic Consensus, first of all, on the issues of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but also on the issues of the Ministry of National Defence, where the Minister is like a man of law, and we have a profession, but also on that, because of the nature of the issues you are dealing with, we are very positive. We have rarely made criticism, at least in public, aggressive or with cases that may have been of interest to us. And Mr. Xydakis and you, Mr. Katrugale, have happened together at the National Foreign Policy Council and you have experience of how we are sitting there and you have experience that neither from the other parties nor from us has half the leak from our meetings. In other words, we have contributed to protecting the very nature of the instrument and the need to speak more openly there. Even since the meeting, behind closed doors, the Committee on Foreign and Defence Policy has not leaked anything. And where we stand and where we are in international organisations we are doing our national duty, as we have to. I'm not saying that to be self-professed. I say this because that is how we understand our obligations. And we are addressing you for five years in which we have been dealing with the crisis, whether alone or with others, you have hit us in the worst way. I would therefore like to ask you, Mr Minister, to beg and address you for this, if you can, I do not say that you have the absolute discretion or the possibility, but if you can protect the legislative procedures from the government's overall work, because we would have completed it, we would probably have made two - three more general references - I will do one for the insurance - but that would end. If we have an amendment today, ten other times, you understand that other things that change the nature of Rules 108 and the next of the Rules of Procedure of this House and the nature of your work are added to your responsibility. Let us say, in order to be able to deal with the amendments, we are looking for contracts that we do not want to do. And you know now that the ambassador of the country you reserve hears it. How can he now understand that this House is being smuggled into Rule 108, and that is why we have the opportunity to speak? I would ask you to see this in this sense the subject we are raising today. Mrs. Gerovali didn't know that. It has generally referred to the subject of the amendments, with its own amendments, but we have another kind of discussion with you in this Chamber. And Mr Saridis, I think, from the Central Association has asked you to protect what we have won for two and a half years, to have another way in foreign and defence policy. It's over and out. Now, since this morning, we have a loose end, Mrs Gerovali, from the timely question. You said at the end that every contribution to what is to come is welcome. I'll tell you you don't have any other way of getting away with the trouble you'll have. And when I talk trouble, I don't mean politics. I mean, when you have a problem to solve, how are you gonna solve it? Once the decision of the Council of State comes out and tells you that these laws have been wrongly adopted and wrongly made, such recruitments have been illegally - in this sense badly - what are you going to do? It is a large number, it is a lot of services, it is, as we agreed, crucial to the issues of cleanliness and security. What are you gonna do? You only have one way to get into the logic of collective agreements with companies of all kinds. I say it 'every form' because I hear that some things are being done, not by you, on the subject of the COMPAs. I am not sure, so I am not presenting it. But the COMES can also participate. But it wants a competition, Mrs. Gerovali. It's not the way you do it today. If you can't do this because you're contradicting your last night's self saying "We're going to hire permanent employees for cleaning, etc.", that's your issue. But your point of view is your political contradiction and the political perception you are forced to do, it cannot be a problem either of the country, of the governors, or of the public administration. Let's go now. You have had to make some general references to public administration issues. Members who support you, such as Mr Katsikis, have also entered the general issues of public administration and the need to make changes. These political positions, which you are obliged to do, you realise that it is in complete contradiction with the work that the House is doing today by ratifying an agreement. However, you cannot recommend an amendment in technical terms. You should say something political. So listen to our own policies: you have the responsibility of the most important ministry in Greece today. There is no question of the country which is not related to the economy and growth, the bread of the citizen, human beings is related to the economy and development, the major obstacle of which is public administration. Eight of the ten questions put to her are negative. Either he's late or he's never answering. All six of the eight relate to economic activities. Untie me that now. Nobody solved it. Your law came here to abolish authorisations and is not applicable. Our government Samara - Venizelou brought law in 2013 that was also not implemented. And what's the fault of the citizen now that we can't? You have this bracelet personally and your speeches must provide solutions. While you're getting big on public administration issues, you're coming here to change the Vernardakis law. Because I do not think it was you who took the legislative initiative, parts of which you are changing today. We have told you since that you have voted and you will be voting. We told you that this mistake would do it again. And here's no Skourlet and Army issues with the insurance company, saying what they wanted, and one turned out to be consistent and the other from cybersis. We were all voting here together on pension and insurance, and you got everything back, and you did what you did next. Here are issues where the Hellenic Republic operates without supervision. It is our issue, the 'A' and the 'O', and it is in your hands. And what are you bringing here now? You want to change criteria according to which evolution is taking place in the administrative machine, the state mechanism. I'm not saying you've changed all the criteria. I'd blame you. I say, however, that I am getting a message from a change - Mr Constantinople mentioned it - which concerns criteria and qualifications for those who have worked in the Permanent Greek Representation of the European Union or other international organisations. And you remove them from the opportunity to invoke this qualification. Why? The most sensible man would say you're doing it on purpose. There's someone you don't want. It was an older law, the addition of this criterion was made to Minister Mitsotakis in 2014 and you change that. Why should this not be taken into account? Answer me. What do you mind? Do you have a message from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or a message from your own, from employees who are not diplomats, but who work there and you want to pluck them? Why are you doing this? We think you're doing it because you have that kind of party feasibility. Answer us. I am referring to the time when the law that you are amending today and I see that that is where all the trade unions have denounced you. In other words, you, too, have realised your responsibility as a bureaucrat of bureaucracy. The Minister is a "supporter", a servant - do not misunderstand the word, by its nature, means - but not the Greek people, but red tape. What are we talking about, ladies and gentlemen, in the jiki-jiki ball? That's it. How the years of 'jik-jik-jik' will now be passed, i.e. not with a frontal response to the problems. And tell a Greek citizen that the problem of public administration is just this one and nothing else. So the wording is suspicious. That's the first. Secondly, there is a complaint against the previous, the Bernardakis law, I think. Thirdly, we ask you questions and you do not come and answer them. Our group has touched on this. And what Mr Kegeroglou and Mr Constantinople raised about the different moulation of the same people from different municipalities. they are requested. This issue was the subject of a question. I heard you say from the seat that the needs might be different. I asked what you said, too, and I was told, 'No, because there was a check on these criteria'. And yet, the Municipality of Saints Anargyra and Kamaterou cannot have much different needs from the Municipality of Aigaleo. Don't go crazy now! From a NGO to understand it. However, our research has been there and it shows that the moleculosis, which you call for, is not such a moleculosis, but allows political, party policing. I'm hanging up. If you were not today to force us to talk more generally about public administration and we were normally, we who had reserved ourselves to deal with the limitations of the Rules of Procedure before - this government is in breach of the abbreviations, I would take the floor and say a word about ratification and a word about insurance. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] With that word, Mr President, I am closing. Mr. Catrugale, you are now here by chance, but listen, you have made a law. You were not the next colleague - I do not remember who was here - when we saw that you had about 800 million to give the only ones of the pensioners who are waiting for. And you had a deadline, which expires in October. I have looked now - I am not entirely precise - and I have seen that you have not done a single processing of a specific dossier. Not even one! And the law was passed in November. You've changed. And we were here with Mr. Brutsi saying, "Don't waste any time. That money will take you back. You have a deadline to use until October, for the sake of people. Hurry up, because you won't make it!' And he assured the Ministry: "What are you talking about? We will be able to make progress and give it up."
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u393	Please finish, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u394	I shall conclude, Mr President. And we are in the Salvation Year 2017, we are close to April, and an envelope has not been handled! Colleagues, I'm not saying about the mathematical type that the ministry did not do and went to ELSTAT, ELSTAT did not know about it, and all that we've lived on, and it's about sixty thousand cases. I refer to the eighty thousand cases sitting and waiting. And we're close to April. October will be here. We'll be fine. However, if this obligation of administration has not been met, then the money will not be paid by the Hellenic Republic. He has to return it. This is the conversation we had in November here and the ministry promised speed. Your insurance is all in trouble. It is also technically involved, in addition to the political issues on which we have been confronted. The technical level is the enemy of any reform. In addition to our disagreement on your main political objectives, there is a huge problem in the day-to-day application of insurance. And while I was saying this yesterday in a public debate, a newspaper, "ELLEROS TYPOS" came out today, and it publishes...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u395	Please, finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u396	I'm done, Mr. President. ...a document from the EPC, colleagues, which says, "We can't handle it." Let's put some brains on! See what your obligations are, beyond the supposed negotiation you don't do of course! Let's see what the daily needs of government work are, because here in the House the controversies must be not on staff! I don't want it to have happened this morning. But political controversy will be very great, ladies and gentlemen. And we are not telling you that you are traitors, german germans, as you were telling us, nor are the members of our party beating you, as you were hitting us.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u397	Please, finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u398	Mr. Konstantopoulos ate a reel going for me - he stayed for two months at George Gennimatas - from members of your municipal combination at St. Anargyros. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, we don't. But confrontation here will be very hard, and political assholes are political buttocks. Apart from this, however, we also have day-to-day management. Here, do your best, because so far you haven't done it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u399	Mr President, I would like to make a clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u400	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u401	First of all, I would like to thank the honourable Member for the correct and correct way in which he raised the matter with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Indeed, they must remain outside party controversy. I must say - not from your party - that I have seen one, two questions at the last time that seems to be getting out of this rule and we really have to keep it. Although the matter is no longer my responsibility, because it has been raised and because, in fact, where we can, we need to speak with facts that can be crossed - it is not just at the level of the arguments - to tell you about the ones. No single one has been given since 2013, because the existing mathematical formula was wrong. It's inaccurate that we didn't give a single one at all. We've given thousands. I don't know the exact number because I'm obviously no longer the operator of the files. So the correction I want to make in your remarks is that there were indeed major technical failures, which we tried to correct to the extent that we could. Proof of the maximum technical failure of the past is what I said to you, that from 2013 until we took over, not a single one could be issued. I also disprove - and you can cross it - what you said not to have been given a single one. Thousands of singles were given. As far as the exact number is concerned, I asked the Ministry to issue a press release for the truth of the data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u402	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, thirty-three students and students and two educational attendants from the 3rd High School of Chania. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Barbaroussi, you have the floor for five minutes. But in order not to complain, if you need more time, because Mr Lovers has spoken more, I will give you more time. But speaking time has been agreed at five minutes from all wings. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u403	Thank you, Mr President. That's enough. We have another sky-based amendment, which is too late. You brought her last afternoon at 19:00. The way you legislate, gentlemen, is unacceptable and worse than what you blamed. You are bringing an amendment, which is, in fact, a mini-legislative bill, as our rapporteur quite rightly said. You could table this amendment, along with what others deal with public administration, in a separate bill, since the problems are huge and the changes that need, are necessary. You've given some explanations on this matter. From what you said, it is clear that you are people of the last minute because you had fourteen months to correct everything that was wrong with you in the committees. Legislation by means of amendments to build a party army. If you do not understand it, you have definitely reached over four hundred amendments. We do not wish you, of course, to overcome the New Republic of Samara, which remains the first in this matter. This fits the glove of the "teacher you taught and reason you do not prevail". Now do the same and worse than you blamed PASOK for. Of course, that was expected and no impression was made, since in fact SYRIZA is nothing more than a PASOK Imitasian, since most of your ministers come from this place. It is a good thing that the New Democracy and the PASOK are not complaining, because they did the same, and even though - in fact - you go back to government, we are sure you will, perhaps worse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u404	Thank you. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u405	I will be speaking very briefly in remarks which have been made and which have to do with the amendment. I would like to repeat that the objective of these arrangements I have brought today, in this exceptional form, does not change the substance of the current law. Really, he's coming to solve technical issues. What's he doing? It broadens the number of persons entitled to apply for directors' posts and, at the same time, rationalises the qualifications in this post. The enlargement of the candidates is, therefore, completely contrary to the logic of which we are accused. Here we are trying to limit and determine who will become directors-general. I would like to remind you, therefore, of some things to those who built this state, who delivered from the state after forty years. And how many bad things to describe? We all agree on evil, except some people can't get themselves out of it. I am not addressing anyone personally, but as representatives of the PASOK and New Democracy parties you have responsibilities for this state. You made it. We didn't fix it. We come to solve problems forty years and, indeed, difficult issues, as you know very well. The client state, with mathematics, built it and managed it both by PASOK and New Democracy. So I understand why you think wickedly and try to find out where the evil is, what SYRIZA is going to photograph to hire his own people. So you've learned to think. We don't think that way. The chiefs - you will remember it very well - in December 2014 - because in 2015 SYRIZA was going to get a government - changed, nights. What crises are we talking about? From the phone they switched horizontally across the public, with Minister Mitsotakis. Doesn't anybody remember that? We came on January 25, 2015, but on January 26, we did not avenge these people. We said we shouldn't be vengeful. It was our fault that Mr Mitsotakis was the coup d'état of the PASOK-New Democracy, but we did not want to attack people and so they remained in their positions. Are we accused of kicking them out? Were they all ours? We put them there, and they're still there? So just so we faced these people with neither vengeance nor saying, "Go away because you were the New Democracy and come because you are with SYRIZA". And we've proved it for two years. Today, then, we come to this evil, the hard state, which has difficulties and discomfort, which you all know, to deal with some issues. You all know how many difficulties there are when you try to make a big change, because we have a polynomiality or why many in different ways may interpret things. But we did not create these. We're going to deal with it. This is all about the general framework, so that we know who is speaking and why it speaks and why everyone should assume their responsibilities. We'll take it from here, but for the two years we've been ruling. We won't take care of them for the previous period. Obviously, someone has responsibilities. There's no guilty man in here! They're all innocent! How is that possible? It can't be done! Common sense. You're very good lawyers. Mr. Loverdo, you're excellent, but he needs a doctor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u406	In my case?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u407	Not to you! But I guess she needs a doctor, as far as I can see. So that's about who's making ruffles. When we mobilize for positions of responsibility, a qualification that does not correspond to this position, which one is called upon to serve, must one be reduced, should it be strengthened? I have, in other words, a master's degree in English and the position is for the Finance Directorate. Is it supposed to be modulated because it's postgraduate? I'm asking. I say no. Therefore, no plastic qualifications in relation to the position. It is a qualification for the man who has the Master's, but not for this post. Is it right to be a public official in the European Union? Of course it is. This place needs this qualification, or if I do it, do I ruffetti to them? What if it's inverse? I think we should think about this. If I have friends who serve in the European institutions? I do. Is that the criterion? We must therefore see the highest qualifications for this position, because with their qualifications people will be judged there. These qualifications must also be defined and be relevant. Who's gonna judge all this? The Minister? No, it's not the Minister's judge. The Minister does not have responsibility for this. The Chief Selection Board has been built - and this is the first time that this institution exists, we have now established it by law - which has two members, has a Legal Adviser of the State and all the guarantees of independence, so that there can be no political intervention. This has never happened in the Greek state. But they are now with the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. So we do not want to intervene, because we do not want to avenge anyone for what they are voting on. We are barely very well aware of what this means, because we have suffered it for years as a political body. We do not want these days to be repeated at the place and we never did. SYRIZA doesn't build party armies. These are for impressions. It's a competition. It's S.H.I.E.L.D. Why is the molecules different? There was a question that Mr Kegeroglu put, and I said that I am not responsible for answering. A competition is opened by a Ministry and has under its supervision the AACC, which controls it. I, of course, am supervising the Ministry for SAEP. However, the AACC, as you know, is an independent authority and I cannot interfere with its work. If I do, then you'll blame me right. Therefore, I cannot answer and judge how the AACC worked. It can't be done. Now, I didn't study Mr. Kegeroglu's list, because it hasn't come to me yet, but I'll see him later. I heard it's for municipalities. I don't know if they're municipalities with SYRIZA mayors or other parties.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u408	Does it make sense?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u409	It's important to say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u410	Yeah, it's SYRIZA's, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u411	They're also SYRIZA's, but there's others. So we should ask the CEDEFOP the question, I think, and not me. So I thought well - it was a spontaneous answer, Mr Loverdo - that when I make a position, I say that I want it to be seen and qualified, so these qualifications are limited. Somewhere else he may have needed another qualification, and another one may have been numbered, which he probably had. That doesn't mean there's gonna be a poaching. That's what I'm thinking. Maybe it's not. I can't prove it, but I'm saying a reasonable version. And of course, I would like to close up with what was at first heard by a newspaper yesterday was talking about this amendment. I think Mr. Kegeroglu said so. Really. I told you I testified her yesterday. It's a little late for the accounting office, and it's all happened that, you know, it's happening. For my part, yesterday I intended to come and not ratify today. And what he said yesterday was in the paper and publicity, proves the truth. My word is true. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u412	Thank you, too. You didn't say a doctor's specialty, Mrs. Gerovali.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u413	We shall see this together, Mr President, as colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u414	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u415	What do you want, Mr. Loverdo?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u416	After the statements made by the Ministers, I have the right to speak from the Rules of Procedure for two minutes. I don't know if we're gonna close, but it's my last place.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u417	The deal was another, but the deal has been broken.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u418	Mr Deputy Foreign Minister, when I made a reference to insurance, I mentioned two issues: delays in one-off, which you cannot question - and I think you did not question - and delays in the issue of pensions. I talked about a hundred sixty-two thousand cases. They are the hundreds of two thousand who refer to pensioners before your law and the sixty thousand after your law. The ETUC's document says that they will not be able to deal with these cases by October. I knew what I was saying. And yesterday morning, before I even see that the FBI reacts in this way, from the remarks we make, by controlling the government, we see that this matter is in the air, it is pending. And it concerns you as manager before your law, but also as author of your insurance policy. These are not disputed, since the FBI says so. If the FBI doesn't know what he's saying, I don't know what to say. You did him, you sent him in. That's what I'm talking about. Madam Minister, listen, the misdemeanours also create jobs, especially in politics. I'm talking about malicious things, I'm throwing two demagogic suggestions, and I'm taking it off. That's not our job. Our job is to say - you two years and something - what we did about malicious things. I, for example, can tell you - and I am told by the President-in-Office - the law of infinite Penponsibility for the SAP, the laws for completing the powers of the municipalities, the advisability of the decisions which the central government controlled. I can also tell you about the prefecture of prefecture and regional government, the "Kapopesistrias", the Citizens' Counselor, the "Kalikrati", the Transparency, which is recent and which you have been rocking. Tell me a change in the two and a half years, with which you have come to correct the bad texts. If you tell me a balance with what I mentioned, then I'll tell you you're fighting it. You don't even have half! But, as I said in my protology, you care about who will become the supervisor, who will not become the molecules, that, the other, which the act shows is not so clear. I mentioned, Madam Minister, two municipalities. In the Municipality of Aigaleo, the mayor is yours. He's a mayor, though. What "yours" and "mys"? By making the assessment, his municipality - correctly - said "so much molecules". The other mayor - usually he is the one of Kamater - is something between 'which...', etc., 'That's what I say...', 'I mean...' and 'them'. He's a friend, too. Another molecule says he's saying. So it's not local self-government, it's your creation. It's legitimate, so the Opposition tells you that somewhere you've put your hand in there somehow to shape it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, the debate on this will take place when a draft law of the Ministry of Public Administration comes. The amendments and the burglary of words do not make any difference. Let the Minister responsible make an effort here to bring about the changes that need to be made to the matter of the state and then we'll talk about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u419	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u420	Mr President, could I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u421	Mr Minister, we have to end this, however, because the debate has to be a debate. It was agreed this morning that the ministers should speak for five minutes and this has been broken.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u422	You are right, Mr President, but I do not have to invoke the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u423	Can I give you a minute then?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u424	I'm gonna need less.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u425	But you realize that every four minutes we have to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u426	Yeah, but don't keep going like that. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u427	The insurance reform bill wasn't for details. It was for principles, in order to have the same rules on all insured persons, which is the basic principle of equality. However, because, first of all, you referred to technical issues and, secondly, because there might be a reliability criterion in this respect, I have repeatedly talked about the misinformation cloud of the insurance company. So here, because we have numbers and it is easy to cross-check numbers, I will repeat what it is about. You said it wasn't even given once. I have been able to cross-check between my position that a thousand and fifty have been issued to date, and according to yesterday's statement - which means, regardless of today's debate - Mr Capotas, the commander of the responsible body, another two thousand will be given in April. How much has been issued since 2013 and for another three years due to the failure to implement the mathematical formula? Zero! On the question of pensions, you were right to say that a hundred thousand pensions were being delayed over your days. I don't mean on your own days, but before we take the lead. Furthermore, when you are accusing us of the fact that no definitive pensions have been issued yet, you must know the obvious fact that we never have a permanent pension in time. Time is always longer. So what we have done is self-evident: the chaos of the hundreds of thousands that have been pending, to try quickly to promote them and at a similar rate to move on to the next.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u428	You won't be able to...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u429	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u430	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u431	Here, Minister, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u432	In a minute, I'll try to answer the last ones heard by Mr. Loverdos. In fact, nobody said there was never anything positive. We have never said any harm to the law of Peponnes or to the SAAP or to the JEPs. I remember them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u433	And you're doing very well.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u434	I remember the very serious interventions that have taken place. In fact, today we are in a phase, taking these positive and one step further and building their continuity, because they have also reached a limit. You said more. Indicate ‘CARRIAGE’. But, for example, yesterday, Mr Kegeroglu - from your own political body - brought changes to spatial planning. So it's not all perfect. We're keeping good. Let's move on. However, this state does not only have what we said as well. He's got all this bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u435	The Citizen's Counselor didn't like you?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u436	Very much. And that's what we're going to do, so we can get another mediation. We are therefore expanding this all further. However, we must remember that in this state today, we have received what you say - we will do it below - but we have also received billions of digital systems with projects that have never been received. What's been received doesn't work with any other system. This has never happened before, not to cooperate with a system and to look for them to cooperate, so that we can finally abolish bureaucracy. Infinite billions where did they go? Definitely not in the systems. That's not what we built. We come and heal them and move them forward. In any case, however, the piece of legislation we are implementing today, I would remind you that it was when Mr Vernardakis was Minister. Significant laws have been made, which are laws - sectors, such as the Civil Service Officers' Registry, to build executives who will be merited. Today is a technical improvement in the law, without changing its essence. So that's where we are. So we're not coming to legislate. We've legislated. Today we are implementing. Is there a delay? Yeah. It's a disgusting state. He wants money to be done. And you know it. I'm talking about digital systems now. Efforts are being made. I think soon, the results of our work will be visible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u437	Thank you, Minister. The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u438	Mr President, I have asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u439	Mr. Xydakis, now you've asked him. Excuse me! The Minister spoke twice. Now you've asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u440	Excuse me! I think it is self-evident, Mr President. I didn't ask him now. We agreed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u441	Are you addressing me?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u442	We agreed that the parliamentary representatives would speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u443	It had been arranged from the outset, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u444	You didn't ask for it from me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u445	Together we agreed to the procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u446	Yes, but you didn't ask to speak. The process is that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u447	All right! Could I speak? It is an economic process and we have all agreed to talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u448	I agree. But, Mr. Xydakis, I'd like to explain something to you. It has been agreed by all parties that the amendment will speak for five minutes by the Minister. This has been agreed by all the wings. In fact, we did some, if you like, arrangements. You didn't ask me for the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u449	Mr President, I may not have told you by name. It was, however, the procedure agreed at the outset with Mrs Christodoulopoulos, which you extended and improved.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u450	Exactly, that's what I'm saying. You didn't ask me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u451	I'm asking you. Give me two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u452	Okay, but now you're asking me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u453	I'm not asking you any more. It was agreed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u454	It was agreed for everyone, but to ask for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u455	There's been a misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u456	You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u457	Thank you, Mr President. To close this meeting, which began with a small storm, to end with calmness. First of all, I had heard about sanctions days ago the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Javara, who said that some kind of sanctions may not need to be introduced into the legislature and ratification by Parliament. It could be a simpler process to cover Greek democracy, to have the same strength, to ratify the international convention and not to trouble the House with a job which simply spends time and effort. From there on, in the essence of the amendment, which has raised the slight storm in water at the beginning of the sitting, I would like to remind my fellow Members, in particular from the Democratic Alliance, of the PASOK colleagues who participated in a government in 2010, of the legality of Giannis Ragosi. Yiannis Ragussis first introduced the evaluation committees with some advanced criteria. General managers were appointed. The evaluation committees have worked. Then, in another government, in 2014 with Minister of Administrative Reform, Kyriakos Mitsotakis, the co-governing ministers of PASOK voted for a law and, above all, approved or refused a practice of the then Minister of State Kyriakos Mitsotakis, so that the transitional provisions would cancel all the substance and all the work done by the Ragosi Act, effectively delegate and appoint general directors, without any criterion. At the Ministry of Administrative Reform, one of the thirteen judged in 2010, the Director-General was appointed in 2014, number 13, the less molecules, while number 1, the one judged with most molecules, was found as a simple employee. These are detailed and Mr Ragus has submitted them in October 2014, with the full award of the 2010 and the entire legislative framework. They have been described as "the night of St. Bartholomew". The Association of Graduates of the Public School of National Administration described the period from summer 2014 until the end of the year as a return to Ottoman law. Can we understand these things? I and by this Step, when the Vernardakis Act was being discussed - which improves, supports and implements the current Minister - I said that over the past several years in this ruin called "Greek state", which is hostile to the citizen and friendly to the parasitic elites, we honour the memory of Sakis Pepongis for the SAP, as well as the work of Yiannis Ragosi in 2010 on "DIANIA". We are effectively renamed, things that collapsed at the end of 2014 by the current Chief of Police Anti-Population. And now I'm going to say two words about this unfamiliar style and this rhetoric, which suddenly erupts and have a more general interest. We're talking about the Migration, how bad it was or how good it was. Most of us here are children of Postpopulation, people who were man-made in the 1970s and went through all this unprecedented prosperity. But it was also a well-being with borrowers, a prosperity that led us to pain, a prosperity that led us to this historic divide that we live in. It was the Postpopulation which continued and partly justified the desires of the people in the 1960s, the lost spring of the '60s for justice, iso-politicalism, for pretext, for education. It was the Postpopulation, which brought the lust national reconciliation and recognition of the National Resistance, and the political forces went up to Gorgopotamos together. However, it was also the republic with the spirit and method of 'Bareladian', 'Nitro' and 'Flash'. It was them too! And that's in the bill and we're paying for it. It was the "supply" of the stock exchange, for which no one paid, for the 100-120 billion, which were moved from the savings of the small and medium-sized class to the bags, to the stock exchanges of bankrupt enterprises with wealthy entrepreneurs. It is the Mobilisation of Diplomatic and Corruption, which has been the subject of international studies and international mocking. It is the shift of prosperity with borrowings, for which we are all responsible. But those who ruled, little more, to make self-criticism, to be redeemed against the great judge. And it's the Meducation of bankruptcy, which we're living in in a seven-year strial now. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In this Chamber we are, let us consider not only how many responsibilities we have for the 40 years that have passed, but what responsibilities we have towards the people who come before us, to the young people of fifteen, twenty, twenty-five, thirty-five years old, to those who suffer the Brain drain and the third large circle of immigration in a century and see whether we have the mental stature, but also the mental reserves for self-criticism and go to a new national composition. As far as all the others are concerned, with the beauty demagogues, cubes and intercategories, here are the people who are listening to us, our Greeks, and let us be judged. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u458	Thank you, too. I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, thirty-three students and students and two educational attendants from the 5th High School of Chania. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles, amendment and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is hereby concluded: 'Following the Framework Agreement on Partnership and Cooperation between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Mongolia, of the other part, and other provisions'. Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u459	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u460	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u461	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u462	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u463	The Communist Party of Greece is absent because of its conference. The Communist Party of Greece in a document by Mrs Manolakou votes "No". The amendment is absent because it has not submitted a document.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u464	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u465	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u466	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u467	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: 'Following the Framework Agreement on Partnership and Cooperation between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Mongolia, of the other part, and other provisions', was accepted in principle by a majority. We are entering the vote on articles and amendments. Asked by this House: Can Article first be accepted as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u468	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u469	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u470	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u471	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u472	The Communist Party of Greece votes "No".
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u473	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u474	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u475	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u476	The first article was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept the amendment with a general number of 1003 and a special number of 12 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u477	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u478	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u479	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u480	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u481	The Communist Party of Greece is absent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u482	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u483	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u484	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u485	Therefore, the amendment under a general number of 1003 and a special 12 was accepted by a majority as it stands and is part of the bill as the same article. We are entering the vote of the nominee. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u486	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u487	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u488	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u489	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u490	The Communist Party of Greece votes "No".
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u491	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u492	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u493	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u494	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: 'Following the Framework Agreement on Partnership and Cooperation between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Mongolia, of the other part,' was accepted in principle and in Articles. We are entering the vote of the bill as a whole. Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u495	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u496	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u497	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u498	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u499	The Communist Party of Greece votes "No".
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u500	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u501	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u502	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u503	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: ‘Following the Framework Agreement on Partnership and Cooperation between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Mongolia, of the other part, and other provisions, of the other part’, was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, on the principle of Articles and of the whole and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u504	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u505	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-30-S1-commons.u506	With the consent of the House at 14.24 hours the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday, March 31, 2017, at 10 a.m., on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
