ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour to announce to the House the news sheet on Monday 13 March 2017. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Evros of the New Democracy, Anastasios State, Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, about the delays in the completion of the vertical road of the new Egnatia Road of Astranios - Ormenios. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 551/2-3-2017 by MP Aitolakaranna of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Konstantopoulos to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on the deterioration of the services of the Single Social Security Agency (ESFKA) of Nafpaktos. 3. The timely question by MP Achaias of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity concerning workers and self-employed persons with service permits. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 563/6-3-2017 by MP Magnesia of the New Democracy Mr Christos Boukorous to the Minister of the Interior concerning housing assistance for the restoration of damage to the Municipality of Alonissos. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No 572-7-3-2017 of the current question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the extradition of Presidential Decrees on the recognition of professional rights of TEI graduates. 3. The Question No 535/24-2-2017 by MP Evros of New Democracy Mr Anastasios Prussakis to the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy on the establishment of a Port Academy in Alexandroupolis. 4. Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on the problems of contract workers in cleaning at the National Technical University. 5. The current question by MP Magnesia of New Democracy, Christou Boukorou, to the Minister of Economy and Development, concerning the increase in the unemployment rate in Magnesia due to deindustrialisation. 6. Mr Spyridonos - Adoni Georgiadis to the Minister of Finance, on the meeting of the Prime Minister with representatives of the Rothschild Investment Bank. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The Question No 345/16-1-2017, by MP, Athens, Nea Spyridonos - Adoni Georgiadis to the Minister of Finance, concerning mismanagement issues in the Hellenic Defence Systems (ESA). 8. The Question by MP I of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs about the licenses of assistant teachers. 9. The Question No 504/20-2-2017 by the Member of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Pappas to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs about the fulfilment of the nation's battalion. 10. The Question No 513/21-2-2017 by MP II of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on the reconstructing of the Workers' Housing and Workplace Organisations. 11. Question No 530/24-2-2017 by Evia MP of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Michou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the retention of part of the OPEKEPE grants due to a failure to pay contributions to the GEO. 12. The 527/24-2-2017 topical question by MP Lesvos of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Stavros Tassos to the Minister of Health, about Tilos' Polypowerful Regional Medicine. 13. Observations of the Court of Justice The Question No 552/3-2017 by Z' Vice President of the Parliament and Mr Spyridon Lykoudis to the Minister of Health about the degraded state of health. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Question No 3025/31-1-2017 by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMARK KEGEROGlou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the new pension cuts for pensioners, farmers and not, employed on farms. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No. 1481/24-11-2016 question by MP II of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Georgios Diaras to the Minister of Health, concerning the complaints of high rates of Cesarean in Greece without medical justification. 3. The question by No 446/18-10-2016 by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassiliou Kegeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the serious problems faced by farmers. I have the honour to inform the House that the Standing Committee on National Defence and Foreign Affairs presents its reports to the draft law of the Ministry of National Defence: A. JUDGMENTS OF THE COURT OF JUSTICE AND THE COURT OF FIRST INSTANCE OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES "Privatization of the technical arrangement between the Swedish Armed Forces and the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic for the Cooperation of the Swedish Armed Forces with the Hellenic Navy in the Sector of Exchanging and Training of Special Forces". B. Other: ‘Preparation of the Military Cooperation Agreement between the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Armenia’. The Standing Committee on Social Affairs also presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Health: "Reforming the administrative organisation of mental health services, centres of expertise of rare and complex diseases and other provisions". Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS I would like to inform the House that they will not be debated as a result of a hindrance to the honourable Member, the following topical questions: The fifth question, under number 405/30-1-2017, is a topical question for the second-cycle MP Grevenes of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Christos Beyalas to the Minister for Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, concerning the transition to the digital signal for large parts of the province, will not be discussed as a result of an obstacle to the questioned Member. The sixth question under number 543/28-2-2017 is the second question of the Member of Parliament of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos, to the Minister of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, on the recognition of a pre-service at ERT SA. for the officials of the B.64/2006, it will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Member of Parliament. The fourth, with number 573/7-3-2017, top-stage question by the Member of Parliament, Eitolokarnania, of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Moraitis, to the Minister of Interior, on the danger of the national network of Amphisia - Lefkada - Preveza - Igoumenitsa, will not be discussed due to lack of competence. They will also not be discussed as a result of an impediment to the relevant ministers and will be redefined for discussion, the following topical questions: The first under number 560/6-3-2017, the first question of the first cycle of the New Democracy MP, Athanasios Davakis, to the Minister of the Interior, on the restoration of damage from natural disasters in the Municipality of Eurota, will not be discussed and redefined for discussion due to an impediment by the Minister of the Interior, Mr Panagiotis Skourletis, because of misappropriated commitments. The third, with No. 568/6-3-2017, top-level question for the first cycle of the Parliamentary 2nd Athens of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Helen Zaroulias to the Minister of the Interior on the subject: "The Municipality of Kavala legalizes the pseudos in tourist exhibition in Constantinople", will not be discussed and redefined for discussion due to an impediment by the Minister of the Interior, Mr. Panagiotis Skourletis, due to misappropriated obligations. The second, with number 564/6-3-2017, the first question by MP Achaias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Theodoros Papatheodorou, to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the anti-constitutional and extra-academic criteria for the selection of candidates for PSY at the Hellenic Open University, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Mr. Konstantinos Javroglou, due to the workload. The first, with number 561/6-3-2017, a topical question by the Member of Parliament, Mr Georgios Vlachos, to the Minister of Finance, concerning the proposals and requests of the Municipalities of the Mediterranean in view of the consultation on the renewal of the Athens International Airport Convention "El. Venizelos with the Greek State for the period 2025-2055, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister of Finance, Euklidis Tsakalotou, because of the workload. The second question under number 569/7-3-2017, on the activation of the decision on the pilot study of the Argolia zone (ZOE) of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Maniatis, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the basis of the workload, will not be discussed by the Minister for the Environment and Energy. The third, with number 575/7-3-2017, timely second question by the Member of the People's Association - Golden Dawn, Ilias Cassiri to the Minister of Finance, concerning the provocative reduction of the special solidarity contribution for political persons, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Ekaterini Papanatsiou, due to planned unforeseen obligations outside the law of Attica. The fourth question under number 571/7-3-2017 of the Independent Members of Parliament, Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the case of beer and if there are jurors in the Competition Committee, will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Minister of Economy and Development, Mr. Finally, Question No 2746/20-1-2017 by the Independent MP from Athens Mr.Theocharis Theocharis to the Minister of National Defence, on the dismantling of the Greek Defence Systems (ESA) with the concession of the destruction of old ammunition to a private person, will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Deputy Minister of National Defence, Mr. Dimitrios Vitsa, on the grounds of unsuccessful obligations. Ladies and gentlemen, there is also a letter from the Secretary of Government confirming the reasons you have heard. Let's make some wishful oil if we have more questions on Monday.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u2	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u3	Mrs. Zaroulia, you know these are out of order. The Rules of Procedure do not allow that. However, because it is common to give the floor - I suppose the question has been postponed many times - you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. The issue was for the Municipality of Kavala, who participated in a tourist exhibition in Istanbul and was with the pseudo-state. This act has exposed Greece worldwide. Municipalities do not have an obligation to carry out international tourist promotion, the competence of the EOT, but to deal with local affairs. On the other hand, there is a legitimate interest in the development of the economy through tourism. However, the constant interests of the Greek nation and Cypriot Hellenism precede. Since the exhibition was organized in Istanbul, and knowing the provocative policy of the Turks for indirect recognition of the pseudo-crats, the Municipality of Kavala should either come to prior communication with the EOT or the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or, after all, protest to the organizers or inform the Consulate of Greece in Istanbul. However, he did not do anything at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u5	But now you are developing your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u6	No, I don't. I denounce the anti-Greek attitude of the Municipality of Kavala. This behaviour is inconsistent with UN Security Council Resolutions 541 and 550 calling on Member States not to recognise, facilitate or help in any way this separatist entity, which in any way seeks to accept it from the international community. It is a great challenge and the government must do something rather than avoid answering, Mr President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving to the seventh under No 462/9-2-2017, a topical question for the second cycle of the Athens MP of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdou, to the Minister of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, on the Greeks and the payment of public debts. The Minister responsible, Mr Nikolaos Pappas, is present, who will respond. Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr President. What you have read, Mr President, twelve topical questions to Ministers, one of which is one, is unprecedented for Parliament. We're talking about an anti-democratic government. He doesn't want control. She doesn't want to be criticized. A question to the twelve with a series of State Secretarys, who can cover a weakness of their Minister, because he may be absent abroad, because he may have another obligation? A government full of Undersecretaries and of the twelve topical questions discussed? Anti-democracy for days SYRIZA and ANEL! I am very grateful to Mr Papapas, because he has always been here and we have been hammering him. But he was coming. And if he had any responsibility, his office would have informed him. Good thing I'm doing right now, because when you admit an exception, you also confirm the correctness of your criticism. Minister, my question was literal about it and populace. I don't have much to tell you in my first place. There was a practice that the trade union in the ELTA area gave the impression that ELTA is being deceived, in order to close at some point - because the government does not want him - and this also caused concern among Greek and Greek citizens, especially residents of remote areas, either in the mountains or in the island regions of the country. Today I am able to assure the House that you and the trade union have contact and yesterday you have been in contact with each other, after our conversation here you will be. In that sense, I recognise that you want to give a solution to the problem. The problem, Mr President - and this is what I am closing down - is two dimensions. The first dimension relates to a public debt, which ‘Pricewaterhouse’ for the years 2013, raises to EUR 200 million. Compensation for the provision of universal services is what this is all about. Secondly, as far as competitive procedures are concerned - and let us say others - there were phenomena either arbitrary exclusion of the participation of the ELTAs or the "reverse operation" of the competitions in order to benefit competitors. These were my two questions, Minister, and I want your answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u9	Here you go, Mr. Pappa. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Loverdos, I think that this government and the Prime Minister have shown that they are calling for and seeking parliamentary procedure and parliamentary control, and I think that the criticism you have made in your first place is unfair. The story of ELTAs is a story of abandonment - in my opinion - methodically. And even a story of drunken abandonment of the previous years, and I will explain to you what I mean. In 1998, 126 billion drachmas had been donated. That's 370m euros. One would expect such a "injection" from public funds, in fact, to enable the Greek Post to be rebuilt, directed to new products. Because you too realise that, with the advancement of technology, the epistle activity of letters is falling as activity and orientation and the large market share is in the package. That's not what happened. And the investments that were made were made in the machinery guided by the letter, which had precisely and constantly reduced market share. In addition, there was an attempt to privatise courier, i.e. break-up and took place in 2008. It has not been completed, of course, and instead of having an administration that will try to reconstruct them, to look at the financial problems and to deal with them, they parked them in the HELP since 2011 and were just waiting for their destiny. There is no concern, of course, about the universal service and, as you have pointed out, there is a lack of openness, which is very briefly - and I shall refer to my second position - we shall begin with it, so that it can be resolved in cooperation with the National Committee on Telecommunications and Posts. We do not forget, of course, that the ELTAs also lost their share of the Post Bank also in an orderly manner, and were also responded by the NSRF at the end of 2014. Two big programs. So this situation is beginning and reversed at the moment. We've got money saving. We have already saved 20 million euros. They are reconstructed internally because the appointments of directors and directors were made by transparent internal procedures. They've improved their automation because we had 40% of stores, Mr. Loverdos, which operated manually and have now been automated. They are opened in new markets such as the electricity market and already have their first customers. Many financial products can be traded and traded, because we have cooperation with Eurobank and the new approach to the package has increased the turnover by 20% last year. The Joint Ministerial Decision, which allows ELTAs to exercise the customs control from which both the public and the Agency have revenue, has been signed and is in force. Procedures for collecting public debts are under way, which is not a small amount. I have to tell you it's about 26 to 28 million. I don't remember the exact number. As far as the secretariat is concerned - which I had in my portfolio before the last reform - the General Secretariat of Information is concerned, we are in the last stages and the money, the debts, the 7 million, will be paid. In competitions, of course, there are phenomena that put us in wicked thoughts. I have to tell you that in 2016, a hundred ninety contests were won by ELTAs and ELTAs use every legal means to claim and win what we all think they are entitled. I will return to my dentistry with details, if you wish.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u11	Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u12	Mr President, the characteristics of the parties to the centre-left and social democracy may be a, b or c. Our debate is another. One of the basics throughout Europe is contact with the trade union movement. I'm saying contact, because the logic of manipulation is foreign to us. I therefore have the opportunity and opportunity to have frequent contact with the ELTA workers' union and with the President, Mr Vassilopoulos, but also with other executives. Mr President, I have tried to be very specific in my timely question, which is why I am a populist in my prototype, and I will do the same in my second language. Two questions, Minister. I understood well from your first answer in relation to the public's obligations towards ELTAs that you accept them. Do you accept the sum of EUR 200 million, or is that under discussion? It is not only the workers who identify themselves. It was defined by the ‘Pricewaterhouse’, i.e. by a third assessor, who, in relation to the universal service provided by ELTA, identified a specific debt. Watch out. This is not a debt that is under the control and control of the European Union, not to mention and is an unfair state grant. These things are clear. The answer must be: 'Yes, I accept that' or 'I accept it but the height is being investigated'. Secondly, as far as the competition is concerned, and what you are saying is that strange things have actually been found. You've been a government for two years. Funny things have been found. I identify the odds in two. I'm happy with what you're answering, but I want to have tabled the source of my concern. Firstly, it is the famous story of passports, where it was cancelled, the possibility of ELTAs - and it was finally excluded - was marginalised to participate in the first stage and this was resolved. Secondly, it is the case of the EEAS where the work was entrusted to the majority, while the procedure was tender, but this was also corrected by what we learn. Please if you can, be more specific about both in your dentistry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u13	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. I'll say something more generally, Mr. Loverde. I think that there is a lesson from the crisis, and that is, above all, about the progressive and left-wing forces. The lesson is that large infrastructures and large networks cannot produce the maximum economic and social result when operating exclusively from the public sector. One final example of this - and I tell you with personal experience - is the history of DIGEA, that is, the history of having a private provider of the digital television signal for our country. I've had a lot of tours lately. Do you know what one of the main demands people make to me in the province? 'We can't watch TV'. I am not talking to you about areas at the border, which, over and above the Constitution, do not guarantee a basic right to citizens, but there are national reasons for doing so. I'm talking about areas of Kalamata for example. Unfortunately, this is the situation. So I would like to point out that it is of great importance - and above all for our fellow citizens who live in remote areas, regions in which they will not be profitable, to develop these services - that the ELTAs not only survive, but that they can develop and provide multiple services to the citizens, because at the time we live, the crucial issue is to have a network. And ELTAs have a developed network of stores and can, in fact, continue and accelerate I would say on the road to the development of new services. I'm coming to the Catholic Service. We're at the universal stage for her signature. You know that in 2014, the General Accounting Office rejected a request from the Ministry responsible for compensation for universal service costs from the State budget because it required the vote on an amendment. The next period is therefore coming to the vote on the relevant amendment for the years 2013, 2014 and 2015.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u15	When is this going to happen?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u16	I think we can get it in the beginning of the month. There's no reason for delay. We are also appallingly completing the signing of the Universal Service Convention. The level is something for which you will allow me to reserve, to discuss with the National Telecommunications Commission and to obtain an opinion there too. I tell you now that the public directly and quickly will respond to its obligation. It is certain, Mr Loverdos, that many ELTA competitors would very much like an image of depreciation of the post, because they see the crucial role it plays and the possibilities it gives for profitability. I think, however, that we have very critical conclusions here from the whole process. Finally, because you referred to the trade union, the doors of my office will always be open. I'll see the union again today. We had a meeting yesterday at which we did not have time to complete and we will continue. I would like to say that in the postal sector there is a very great need to ensure the safety of work. And here comes the topical issue of the reintroduction of collective bargaining as a whole for our economy, in which the progressive forces should be associated and codified. We also had a tragic accident a few days ago, with a man who was working on courier transport, which precisely highlighted this unfavourable reality. We here, however, are not just to evocate condolences to our colleagues, colleagues and to the family - whom we are condolences - but to think together what we need to do to remove these phenomena, always protecting the public interest, as each one of us understands. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u17	None bad, Mr. Loverdos, because you're right about 12-1 score, that we'll start early on the question. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda for the INQUIRY Question No 12/10/20-2-2017 Ioannis Vroutsi, Panagiotis Mitarakis, Vasilios Economou, Nikolaos Panagiotopoulos, George Kasapidis, George Georgada, Christos Boukorou, Anna Michel Asmakopoulou, Fotinis Arabatzis, Charalambou Athanasios, Savva Anastasiadis, Maria Antonio, Eleftherios Aegenaki, George Vagiona, George Vlachos, Sophia Vultesis, Stergios Giannakis, Konstantinos Gioulekas, Nikolaos Georgiou Dendias, Stavros Kalafatis, Anna Karamanlis, Constantinou Ach. Karamanlis, Theodorou Karaoglou, Andreas Katsaniotis Simeon Kedicoglou, Christos Kelles, Niki Kerameos Konstantinos Kokodimos, Georgiou Koutsakou, Dimitrios Kyriazides, Christos Stakoumatis, Konstantinos Javara, Theodorou Fortsakis, Iasonas Fosila and Konstantinos Hatzidakis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on the subject: "Workers and pensioners experience the gaps and burdens of new insurance every day." On behalf of the government, the State Secretary, Mr Petropoulos, will answer. Although you have the paper in front of you, from New Democracy Mr.Metakis, Mr. Economou, Mr. Panagiotopoulos, Mr. Vlachos, Mr. Bukoros, Mr. Katsaniotis, Mr. Fotililas and the parliamentary representatives of the other parties as appointed by their parties. I don't have to mention them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u19	Mr President, I would like to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u20	The process is clear. There's no question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u21	I do not question the procedure that is being followed, Mr President. I would like to point out, however, one fact, which I consider to be very serious for the parliamentary procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u22	On a point of order, Mr Brutsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u23	It's a point of order, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u24	Let's hear it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u25	The timely question when it is tabled by a party and especially by the Qualified Opposition, is a very serious parliamentary event. It is customary - and this is unwritten law, and I am addressing the Bureau and all Parliament's wings - that this timely question be presented by the Minister or the Minister. The topical and urgent debate, Mr President, is addressed to Mrs Ahtsoglou and we are seeing Mr Petropoulos here today. I do not question your institutional status as a State Secretary, Mr Petropoulou, but the absence of Mrs Ahtsoglou in this topical process is tantamount to depreciating the parliamentary procedure. Mrs Ahchioglu, Mr President, we are constantly seeing her in Hilton. The House is deceiving her.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u26	This has nothing to do with the procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u27	It's a process.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u28	Completely, because I know what the process is and what the substance is.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u29	Very good. The Minister, Mr President, should be here today on the timely question of insurance, which falls apart, in the insurance sector which puts thousands of workers and retired people in an agony and which has been literally blown into the air. And instead of the Minister's being here, the State Secretary comes, discrediting both the parliamentary procedure and the Civic Opposition. Basically, it shows how respects the process and the government and the Ministry's political leadership. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u30	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u31	I would like to say, for the record, that Mr Brutsi's position has nothing to do with the procedure. It had to do with the stuff. If I wasn't on the bench, I'd make my place, too, if you can understand what I'm suggesting. But it had nothing to do with the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u32	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u33	Sit down, Mr. Undersecretary.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u34	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u35	The government's typically okay because it sends the State Secretary. Politically, Mr. Brutsis is probably right. It could have been Mrs Ahtsioglou and, of course, Mr Petropoulos and both of them taking the floor. But especially for Mr. Petropoulos, I want to say a word. I do not know if it has happened only to me, but I have never presided over that which has a timely question and is not here. He's one of those who's 90% present in the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u36	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u37	I saw you, my colleague. I saw you. And after I gave Mr Brutsi a concession, I will give you the floor. Otherwise these things are not provided for in the procedure. And we're old here. My colleague, so that I'm not mistaken about the tuna. Is she a broom?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u38	Bug, Mr. President. Unfortunately, I have nothing to do with the historical personality of the Friendly Society.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u39	Here, Mrs. Scouffa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u40	Look at you, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this battle on the part of the Officerial Response, by a party that has been ruling and knows that in a period of negotiation - and of tough negotiation - as far as a very important part of the work is concerned, the reintroduction of collective agreements against everything that is flexibly and pressingly put forward by the IMF and its accompanyings, impose on the Minister today that he is not, unfortunately, in the Chamber and that we have the material in charge of pension and insurance. So let's get it together. Those of us who have ruled, we know that in a period of negotiation, tough negotiation, things are different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u41	We've always been here, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u42	No, Mr. Brutsi, it's not like that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u43	The troika is better than the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u44	No, Mr. Brutsi, it's not like that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u45	They prefer the troika to the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u46	Calm down, ladies and gentlemen. There's no need. It also happened on a bad day with an emergency question score from twelve - one, my colleague. So let's forget about this and go further. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor for a minute. Please don't start litigation. To go to the essence of a very important question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u47	Because the essence is that it is of interest to the Greek people, I consider it an excellent honour to respond to such a top issue for society. And I expect the questioners to show exactly the same sensitivity, such as the one who urged them to submit this question. Therefore, to raise such issues from the outset, only pointless controversies can trigger and make no sense. How the government responds is a matter of its own choice and does not bring about a reduction in the importance of the debate, because I am the State Secretary responsible for managing and dealing with all matters of social security. On the contrary, if I were missing, the honourable Members would have a deficit in their information, because I have exclusive competence...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u48	Mr. Brutsis didn't personally remind you, though. Isa, you barely enjoyed it, and he said it clearly.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u49	I have to answer that it is unfair to punish the Minister, because there is no point in having a debate on who is responsible for answering, when the Vegetable of my definition as State Secretary shows that I have sole responsibility for this. Of course, the Minister takes precedence over political decisions, but I manage all these issues. But let us see the substance, which will then prove how we understand it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u50	Good. You did the duty, as you had to, to cover it. However, for the record, I tell you that three times a timely question has been cancelled to Mrs Ahtsoglou, which is not due to a workload. Mr Metarakis - first question - now has the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u51	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today in this Chamber we have to have a serious and substantial debate, with responsibility, arguments and evidence, because what we are going to say today concerns all Greeks, pensioners and workers and the unemployed, but above all the young people who want to be the workers and pensioners of tomorrow. I am therefore waiting, Mr Secretary, for you to show responsibility at this very last moment and give substantial answers. I will not repeat the unfortunate opposition and election crowns of Prime Minister Tsipras when he promised no reduction in pensions and respect for mature pension rights. I would remind you, however, that the famous email Hardouvelis was talking about 310 million new measures in pension, and you finally brought 3.6 billion more measures than ten times. Pick how you will characterize this political behavior. We here want to talk about the substance, the market that is suffocating, the pensions that are not issued, the professionals who cannot pay contributions, the farmers who do not even know where to submit the pension application. Ladies and gentlemen, it seems that we are living in different Greeces. In your world they stop you on the street and ask you to increase contributions. In the real world, however, citizens are drowned by new insurance contributions. They're waiting for the pension cut you're talking about in Hilton and they're pelagic in the EFCA chaos. The reality is this: you want to kill productive Greece, Greece that wakes up early, Greece of excellence, which you ideologically repulse. You have made unpleasant contributions to those who dare to continue working, to those who dare to have their seat here in their home country, to those who dare to be consistent and typical in their tax and insurance obligations. You have even made contributions to the free trade, to significantly increase the contributions to farmers. It cannot be tolerated, Minister, to buy such contributions. And, of course, the insurance policy of SYRIZA and ANEL, the insurance insurance company Katrugalo, is the precursor of major cuts in the main pensions by establishing the personal difference. Cut pensions in two stages. In the first, you define the personal difference in the second stage - in a few months, you tell us when - you will put this personal difference in the pretext of negotiating with the institutions. You are, of course, already cutting pensions for young pensioners, where the reduced pension is applied without the personal difference. Soon, too, for existing pensions! All we have to know is the time and the amount of these new cuts. I would remind you what you said: "Don't worry about the old pensioners. You won't have any reductions. Don't worry about the new pensioners. You will have some temporary reductions and after 2018, along with growth, which has parked in the corner and is coming, you will also have increases.” And now, of course, we see reality. And because yesterday, Mr. Secretary, you accused me of having not read the law, you who read it, I want you to tell me today, in particular, how, at what rate, you will recalculate old pensions. Specifically! With the consumer price index that you introduced yesterday with an amendment 20 months after dealing with insurance or with something else that is not provided for in the law? And then I'll answer you very specifically in my dentistry. In the meantime, however, I must stress that there is no progress in issuing new pensions despite your commitments to the contrary. Yesterday you filed the right indicator, because you haven't understood for two years that your main indicator does not exist. As I said yesterday, the bill was written on the knee, in addition to the paragraph with the index, apparently, which the institutions gave you, and you translated it, without, however, dealing with whether ELSTAT has been computing this indicator for thirty years, because each country has some specific features in the indicators that ELSTAT has been monitoring. You only knew yesterday to tell us this unbelievable, that New Democracy from Transmolitanism and then it was unable to imagine that Mr. Katrugalos would dream of a new index in 2016 to prepare him thirty years ago. You are the only government who, instead of dealing with your work, opposes opposition to opposition. Of course, Greeks are waiting when the situation is normalized and you will be able to issue pensions, when you will be able to clear the stock of accumulated pension applications. Over the last two years on your own government - 2015-2016 - ninety-five thousand people are waiting and not four, as you say you inherited the stock from the previous government. And you also voted for a special provision for this purpose, to start paying pensions in November 2016. It's only been two months to take off the circular. And tell me: How many applications have been cleared? Maybe nothing in December, zero in January, zero in February, zero in March? Do you pledge, Minister, that the money you say you have secured in the 2017 budget will not be lost from your own delays? Of course, Mr. Undersecretary, do you understand what is going on today with EFCA? Have you read our question about mistakes in the Insurance Register? Other insured persons have disappeared, others have been cloned, others appear double, others have lost whole periods of insurance, others appear with other addresses, because unification has taken place without any real plan. The workers themselves do not know what to answer the reasonable questions of the citizens going to the new ECA stores. And the citizens of course - and rightly so - are indignant that they do not know where to go for help. Of course, I would say that Greece also has the specificity of islands. You are reducing structures on the islands - I have asked you for this too - and you leave them without any essential service to both workers and the insured and the retired. The former members of the OGA continue to receive today's notices to pay contributions, pending their application for retirement. And they denounce me that the services are unable to answer them what they should do in this case: to pay? Stop paying? Should they come in late? What do they have to do? With regard to the organizational structures of the EPC, ladies and gentlemen, it is important to stress - I must say here that you are not originalising, many of your colleagues are doing so - that you do not have criteria for positioning in positions of responsibility and that they are ultimately done on the basis of party criteria. For example, you have appointed an elected trade unionist, the trade union party belonging to the SYRIZA, in the place of the Deputy Director of the FBI. Do you not understand the incompatibility between the unionist's status and his status as head of the branch making the posts and movements of officials? The free professionals will speak in detail. However, I should like to make it briefly: you have made sweeping changes that choke the real economy without genuine consultation. You have created a real album with laws and circular clipboards written, with error notices. Of course, I must also make a special reference to the famous issue of blocks that you have not yet found a real solution, because if you expect that on the labour market everyone will be going to the inspectorate to judge every worker if he or she works with one regime or another, I think that is inconsistent with the reality that exists in the workplace. And, of course, you tell some insurers that they pay less contributions. Of course, you haven't told these people what pensions they expect when they finish their working life. Ladies and gentlemen, the government has indeed achieved a great deal with the new insurance. He also managed to increase contributions and reduce pensions, but also to dismantle the revenues of the FBI. The first evidence - and you may have more recently - suggests that from 1.2 million alerts have only been paid half. Ladies and gentlemen, your new insurance system is not coming out. The House's Budget Office told you that too! We came here, Mr Secretary, to get answers not only to Civicism, but also to all Greek citizens, pensioners, workers, unemployed and young people who want to hope they will have a sustainable insurance system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u52	The second question, Mr Vassiliou, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u53	Mr President, the case of the insurance bill and the change made by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government is the most indicative case - it is also supposed that your initiative - failure of this government is also of major importance. It's the epitome of failure. Because I was the rapporteur of the New Democracy in May 2016 and because I had handled this issue at the time, I was overturning what I had said in the House, in the committee and in the plenary. And I remember, and now I say, are you a prophet? See what happens in the future? What you said verified 100%? No, none of this. No prophetic qualities, no reading of the future. It's just Greek and simple arithmetic. You put things down and you see what the government suggests can't stand. Ten months, then, just ten months later, the whole structure collapses. Ten months later! So rapid verification of what we had said here in the House, Mr Petropoulou, there cannot be. I think it's a global record of failure and a global record of prediction of what will happen. In fact, did I tell you about SYRIZA's fifteen fairy tales - do you remember that? - for the insurance policy, and I had called Mr. Catrugalo a great pimp. And Balaur, who was the chairman of the committee at that time - because there were two committees, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and the Committee on Social Affairs - says to me: 'Don't call him that man. We must not, it is not elegant in this Chamber to tell the Minister for the Falconer. I would like to say: 'Okay, a political tale'. I see the fifteen cases that we had at the time been straddled and put forward. There's no one in which we've fallen out. All those who talked about insurance - tax, have been vindicated. Those who said that the EKKA is the pharaonic insurance fund that you are preparing cannot be set up within six months, from May to June 2016, i.e., until January 1, 2017. You'll tell me now, open door. But it really is. We were telling you, make three funds, one for the employees, one for the free professionals and the scientists and one for the farmers, because you need to make a special policy to support both the primary sector and the productive part of the country. But you didn't listen. You put it all in a bucket. So this bucket didn't grind anything, it didn't make anything. They're also ready with old-fashioned horny. Why? Because, as Mr Metarakis said, infrastructures were not ready, the records were lost and we are looking for insurance. Health booklets cannot be renewed, and of course, nobody can find it in any corner of the country. There's no information because the employees don't know. In only one thing you have done quickly and effectively: you have set your parties in the management positions. You know this very well! All he has achieved in this reform, Mr Barkas, was to set up your own, your friend-in-laws, in management posts, by assignment of tasks. That's where you did very well. Well, actually, now. We told you you were going to give crumbs to the pensioners, especially to the new pensioners after May 2016. We told you you were making huge cuts. You have cut off the ESS, you have cut the widow's pensions, the disabled and the subsidiary. If you put them down, it's 4 billion close to the cuts and the increment you've made. I am putting all 300 million in 2015, which were the increases for the EEA - and I will tell you about the EEA to close - the 2.2 billion in the 2016 budget and 1.67 billion in the 2017 budget, increases in contributions and cuts. I'll put a personal difference of about 6 billion, which you would never cut! I listened to you here, Mr Petropoulou, from Step and Mr Katrugalo, then, and you said to your Members and your MPs, and they said it, and they reproduced it, that personal difference will remain and not only will it remain, but from 1-1-2018 and then we will also have increases, because - he says - we will have a positive rate of growth and these crazy things you have said. And today, all the Hilton debate Mrs Ahchioglu really does lack because this is negotiating, from what we are learning - do you know what she is? You know, but everyone knows. The debate is when and with how many doses you will cut the personal difference. Not if you cut it, that's for granted. In other words, 6 billion of the personal difference is finished for pensioners, for their main pensions. That's done. The question is when and with how many doses you will cut it off. The personal difference, everyone understands, disappears immediately. And to conclude, I will have my second speech, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u54	I wouldn't recommend it to you, because you're the second question, and you might have to answer for a second. I'll show everyone, and all of them, a tolerance, since we started earlier. Finish in a minute, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u55	Thank you. And since our insurance system, beyond pensions, is also health contributions, I want to tell you the following. You have made increases in the contributions for EEIGs to supplementary and main pensions, from 2% to the mains you did it to 6% and from 0% to the subsidiary you did it to 6%. That is, in the 2016 budget you entered 700 million and another 300 million that you received in 2015 - is 1 billion - and the 700 million you get in 2017. These, because they're contributions to the EEA, they're going to health. Is that not the logical consequence of your actions? So let's go, and we're looking to find out if these amounts went to health. Because, indeed, these are the new chapters of the EEA, plus the second subscribing that you received and paid, the 650 million, to say Mr. Paulakis "payed to hospitals". It is the 650 million that took the subscribed, 700 million in 2016 and 300 million that you made the first adjustment since 2015. I mean, it's 1,650,000. And I am sitting here asking Mr. Bercimi, the day before he came to the Committee on Social Affairs: Find a strong president of the EEAS, who is very good and technocrat, and everyone admires you, why don't you get the clawback and you have another 880 million there, a hidden bomb, which you want to serve in the next government, to tell you: If you have 1,65 billion, the outstanding debts you have as EPPY, it took 1,13 billion, it went 1,35 billion in 2015 and in 2016, it went 1,13 billion, i.e. actually it came back to the due amount - where did it go? Where did the 1.6 billion go that you've got in addition? Where did the 700 million that you imposed on me by the increases go? You have cut the subsidiary and the main 6%, you have put 6.95% health regulations on insured workers. All those millions, the fat millions, where did you do it? And I ask. Did you do it to the pensions? I probably don't know.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u56	And that's what you're finishing up with, Mr. Economou.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u57	I'm not saying you put it in your pocket. You have received the insurance funds owed ECU 600 million to the EEA, and today the debt is 2 400 000, Mr Secretary, because they increased the debts of the insurance funds to the EEA. Is that how the EEAH pays the providers, diagnostics, pharmacists, doctors, all this turnover in hospitals or in the free market? No, of course it doesn't. In that sense, therefore, we are witnessing an incredible political deception and deception. You're telling the world that we're giving you health contributions. However, only 120 million of the 700 million reaches health. With the rest of the money you probably pay pensions from the back door. I don't know what else you might pay. It's an investigator, and we'll look into it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u58	Close, Mr. Economou.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u59	And I'm closing, Mr. President. In this sense, therefore, we will not have any pensions, collapsed the health system, the hospitals are at their worst, the EEAY is not paying the providers, and at the moment the country is sinking. The demand for elections is more timely than ever. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u60	Thank you very much. It is known to the House that from the top Western theories we are attending our meeting, since they participated in the educational program "Work Democracy Workshop" twenty students and students and two trainers from the Greek School of Ursulins. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] You are following a process of controlling opposition to the government, and that is why you see the honourable Members present, the State Secretary and one of the other parties and not the whole House. Let's go to the third-questioned congressman, Mr. Panagiotopoulos Nikos. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, and my colleague, Parliamentary representatives of the government's majority, as far as I know the troika left Athens the day before yesterday. If the Minister of Labour is still in Hilton and is negotiating, he is not negotiating with the troika. Maybe he's drinking coffee, but the troika isn't negotiating. This argument, however, on constant negotiations - which has lasted for about a year because it should have been closed since February 2016 and still keeps at great cost all these delays for the country and for the final account that will inevitably come that you all wish to the Greek citizens - you know it is the main argument that we have been negotiating all the time, we have been negotiating for a year and the Minister is therefore constantly lacking. But this is not the right parliamentary practice. And I do not want to blame the Deputy Minister of Labour, who is therefore coming and responds to all these difficulties in insurance, which, unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, is now under collapse. We had warned you throughout the debate on the reform of the insurance system, the change of the architectural model, all the good things Mr. Kantrugalos was saying then, as did the re-election as you said - to use your own recent expression - at your meeting at the Athens Chamber of Commerce. I think more of it as an expedition. We told you this wouldn't come out. In May 2016, from this point of view, in a debate in plenary, I had mentioned an insurance policy that everyone is losing, whether they are old workers or new insured, whether they are old and young retired, whether they are civil servants or free professionals, either scientists, self-employed, either rightholders or widows. Everyone loses, more or less, now or later. Because this insurance bill, n.43787/2016, was nothing more than an additional taxation with socio-security cloak for budgetary reasons rather than reform of the system. I said it would lead to an extensive evasion. The evasion of the Funds would lead to an increase in the deficits of the Funds, an increase in the funds' deficits would lead to the need for new pension cuts. And I said in my abstention that whoever redistributes deficits today will be asked to distribute cuts tomorrow. Tomorrow's arrived. Some, in particular, the most productive and dynamic parts of the Greek economy - and this is the great shame - are really facing the new reform in terms of extermination. Minister, in Bulgaria, near the border with Greece, at the height of Promahona Serres, there is a village called Petritsi in Greek, Pettic in Bulgarian. This is at the moment a centre of economic activity. Dozens, not to say hundreds, Greek businesses, small businesses, not large, from northern Greece mainly and their accountants are working together, are in fierce transaction and consultation procedures with Bulgarian accountants and lawyers in order to transfer tax head office. They're leaving. It is not because they obeyed and complied with the former commander of the OAU by Mr Tsakir, who is now an administrative pillar in the new ECA when he urged them to leave Bulgaria if they cannot be here. They're doing it to survive. They don't do it to increase, maximize their profitability, but they do it because it doesn't go anymore. At the moment, the Greek small and medium-sized businessman is depleting his energy, his inventiveness, his ingenuity, not to gain more market shares, not to make business moves, but to get out and move his seat elsewhere, so that he can survive. That's what's happening. Therefore, tax evasion has become a systematic behaviour necessary for survival rather than for growth in profitability. The use of old-purpose income as the basis for calculating contributions for some groups of freelance professionals leads to a mismatch of contributions with the actual income of the year and, of course, to a real retroactive burden on the insured, especially on lawyers. We know that due to abstention, the income of 2016 is much less than the income of 2015, but on which the 2016 contributions will be calculated. This is irresponsible, it's distortion. Lawyers are talking about bleeding their incomes, because they are at the same time obliged to pay past year's contributions, as is usually the case in the first few months of this year, but also in current contributions, therefore, an extra burden. Others are excluded by circulars, especially those with the status of a legal partner, from the possibility of being insured as employees so that their contributions are shared between an employer and an employee. This is, I think, another unfavourable measure for this particular professional class. I wonder how two lawyers decided to actually destroy all the other lawyers. The advice of the lawyers is to express a written reservation to the EPC before the payment of the contribution. While your law, the insurer Catrugalo, is considered so perfect for the country's legal world, the plenary session of the legal associations has decided to proceed to lodge actions for every legal association before the Council of State for declaring this law as an anti-constitutional. Such excellence, such acceptance by the country's most legal world in your insurance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u62	Hang up, Mr. Panayotopoulos, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u63	I shall conclude in a minute, Mr President. We have heard about traders that they are little too happy and are happy to pay reduced contributions and perhaps some people are. But, you know why it's true? Because of their turnover that's gone missing. In other words, a reduction in turnover should be seen as a success, because it will involve reduced contributions even because of a hidden income with no proof. Anyone on the street knows that anyone who can save the receipt doesn't publish it. And this is not only because the dealer tries to be wicked, but also because the customer - both sides that trade - asks him to do so. And in the background, of course, it is the light of reduced pensions and no one is talking about it. Also, something else that is also not mentioned in detail: The switch to private insurance for health care. As long as they understand that this system will not provide at least health coverage services, it turns to the private insurance that you put in the system from the back door. And otherwise you're exorcising everything private and private insurance. If we are to do so - for me this debate must be opened - we must do so with the respective institutional authority and not through the back door, not as it is.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u64	Hang up, Mr. Panayotopoulos, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u65	And one last thing and I'm closing, Mr. President. A future scenario, a work hypothesis: While in the future tax controls a business and reveals a secret income. Will insurance contributions be paid, and on this? How are you gonna do it? I would like a clarification. Not to talk about the absolute aluminum with the FYROM blocks and malfunctions.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u66	In your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u67	The damage is too great and I am very afraid that when the next ones are called to handle it, it will be very little what they can do. In any case, however, this model has collapsed and urgently needs change, in view of the new reductions, which are, of course, likely to come and are under negotiation at the moment, not from Mrs Ahtsoglu now in 'Hilton'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u68	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, fifty one students and students and three fellow teachers from the 1st High School of Skydras Pellas. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the Greek Parliament that a proposal for a Special Parliamentary Committee has been tabled to carry out a preliminary examination under Article 86(3) of the Constitution, Articles 153 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament and Article 5 of Law 3126/2003 on the criminal liability of ministers. It is a multi-page proposal and will then be tabled in the Minutes. We shall proceed to the fourth question, Mr Georgios Vlavo.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will fully agree with the previous speakers on the major losses suffered by pensioners as a whole, but also on the desperation that has led to thousands of people being insured for the application of the new insurance system that you, Minister, have brought in and for which you are proud of. Unfortunately, once again, our concerns are fully confirmed. Our points that the ECA will face serious problems in terms of its economic viability have been verified by the morning. Revenue is considerably deficient. The collection of freelance professionals and self-employed people is very low, while many are rushing to close the blocks to save the high contributions. With the law that you brought, you have almost all affected the professional classes, including farmers, not taking into account the specificities of this sector. Changes in the contributions and in the pensions of hundreds of thousands of farmers from the application of the new insurance policy are swept away. Nearly all those insured in the OGA saw their contributions increased, as a result of their new method of calculation. But the rises don't stop there. Farmers, on the basis of the new insurance, will have to make increases, which for the main pension will be gradually up to 2022 at 20% and for health at 6.95% on their net taxable income. While farmers pay 2022 the total amount of contributions, they are entitled to the full pension in 2032. In all of this, it should also be taken into account the fact that farmers in the first half of 2017 will be doubled, as they will have to pay the contributions for both the first and the second half of 2016. The tragedy of the whole case does not stop here, since those who completed the retirement time by the end of 2016 and who have submitted a retirement file are invited to pay their insurance contributions for the months January and February 2017. And they will obviously continue, Minister, to reach the alarms for all the other months of 2017 until one of the few employees finds the time to deal with the submitted files. This is not insurance reform, it is suffering, it is insecurity for farmers. Farmers who are called upon to meet accumulated commitments at the beginning of the year, when they are known to have elementary contact with agricultural production that the first half of each year is considered to be an empty time for farmers' incomes. However, those who were anxiously waiting for tax refunds saw these sums not going to the irresponsible accounts they had declared, but to the tax office, in order to offset their future and regulated debts. This is fraud, it is theft, and no one has had the sensitivity, Minister, to inform these beneficiaries that the money they have expected should not expect. I now come to the retired farmers. With the provisions you have voted on in practice, you are shaping different pensioners' speeds depending on the date of retirement. The old system provided for the calculation of the pension on the basis of years of insurance and contributions paid, and in the last few years. The new scheme takes into account the entire insurance period and at the end provides the sum of the national pension and the pension. It is clear that new pensions will be considerably lower than old pensions and, as I said, the whole pension will be paid after 2031. Greater contributions, smaller pensions. This is not support for the people of daily fighting on earth, it's deception, it's mocking. Even today there are no answers about what will happen to pensioners who, at the same time, create agricultural incomes, continuing to deal with their small farms. To date, this provision for a 60% reduction has only applied to the self-employed in the other sectors of our economy. You have come and this regulation has been implemented in the agricultural sector. Really, is that love for farmers? So, having no procedures and control mechanism to identify and deal with within the framework of the law the employment of retired farmers, you will resort to horizontal measures, by sharing injustices and frustrations with retired farmers. Sloppy doesn't stop here. The application of the first paragraph of Article 235 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union must be interpreted as meaning that it is for the national court to determine whether or not it is for the national The correspondents were the link between the OGA, the insured and the pensioners. Today farmers do not know where they should be addressed and do not receive information and assistance from anywhere on their insurance issues. It is clear, Minister, that in addition to the major blow you have brought to the agricultural world and the imposition of such high taxation and high insurance contributions, you have left in the dark and without informing thousands of farmers about what will apply to them from now on. Farmers are a special category of professionals, but who are currently being treated uniformly, without any provision of the law on the specificities of the agricultural sector, such as the presence of many small farms and the fluctuation of their incomes, often due to unforeseen factors outside their control. That's the reality. Instead of supporting the primary sector, which can directly contribute to increasing production, the government is effectively punishing it. Instead of inciting him to make investments, extensions to his work, farmers impose additional taxes, wine tax, and everything else you think about in the future. And since I am talking about taxes, really, Minister, I would like to ask you today and I will be waiting to hear your answer: will you cut the farmers' tax now in the context of the closure of the evaluation? These are the crucial questions that express the anguish of the rural world. Unfortunately, the government is avoiding silence. But, Minister, you won't be able to do that for a long time. The agony of farmers is over and you must assume your responsibilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u70	The fifth question, Mr Bukokouros Christos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Secretary, your government has recorded many failures, so many that it has not recorded anyone else in more than two years. Your failure in insurance, however, is really emblematic in nature, and it is so because it has failed in all directions. None of the commitments made by Minister Katrugalos, who was also the rapporteur for the bill, were implemented. I shall refer to a few specific cases, to illustrate the sloppyness with which this bill has been introduced and passed, which is afflicting the entire Greek society today. And it's afflicting her, Mr. Undersecretary, because it's not working. The provision of the law was for 1-1-2017. We are going for the middle of the third month and the Greeks are basically 'in the air'. Pensions do not pay, pensions reduce, the viability of insurance has not been achieved and mature insurance rights have been affected. On the occasion of what Mr Vlachos said earlier, I would like to say that the question of farmers is very important. You've literally left them hanging. You have not issued the circular for retired farmers. You may not know that, Minister, but in March farmers must submit a statement of IACS in order to be subsidised. What do you tell them today, from this Chamber? To make a statement, with the risk of losing 60% of their pension or not submitting an IACC declaration and losing their subsidy? Forward cliff and back stream! You have not taken note of the fact that there are farmers, Minister, who have been young pensioners since this year for example, and who are parents of minors at the same time. What will these farmers do? Will they grant their rights and property, depriving today's minors of the right to continue the agricultural profession? Why do you play with their anxiety? Why do you play with their properties? Why do you play with their right to property? Why don't you finally clarify it? Does the farmer, who today is sixty-six years old and has two, three minor children of thirteen, fourteen or fifteen years old, to transfer to them tomorrow the rights and the property, a fortune he found from his father, his grandfather and his grandfather? Is an ineffective and dangerous government today coming to take this right away from him? But there, Mr. Secretary, your social analgesia is evident to be in widow's pensions. You have left families who have to cope with mourning from the unintentional loss of the beneficiary families, without a euro for six, seven, eight, nine months. And those who get the advance and the temporary widow's pension receive 345 euros, Secretary. Can a four-member family live so long with 345 euros, Minister? This is the epitome of SYRIZA's social analgesia - ANEL! But that's not all you did. The widows will be forced to remain in the social population, in which you place them, if they are unlucky not to complete the fifty-fifth year of age, after the transitional period of the three years provided for by the Katrugalos Act. I mean, they're gonna stay uninsured. They won't even get the national pension. If they have the misfortune today to be fifty years old and to lose their husband or wife, they will be forced to remain uninsured and without any resource, for the whole of their lives. And don't tell me about the minimum guaranteed income, which has not yet been applied and cannot cover many families, who have regulated their lives for decades with a certain income. But you have also dealt with mature insurance rights, or rather brutally abolished mature insurance rights, Secretary. With the single L.4336 of 2015, it was introduced that the workers whose insurance funds foresaw thirty-five years with no age limit have a penalty, "pinalt", fourteen times greater than their colleagues, whose funds predicted thirty-five years with a limit of fifty-five years. Is that a isology, Minister? The provision went to Law No.4387 'transit' and sent people, who were a month before retirement, to work in the private sector from three and a half to seven years further, while their colleagues in other insurance funds only a six-month period. Is that a isology, Mr. Undersecretary? From there on, the insurance bill in general did not achieve any sustainability as Mr Katrugalos had promised. FYROM starts with 1.5 billion. 'Black hole'. You don't give pensions and have left families whole without any resource. I would like some answers to these three issues, Mr. Undersecretary, because they are issues which have actually been put into misery and the insecurity of thousands of Greek families. That's what the insurance bill Katrugalu succeeded. I'll come back to my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u72	Good. I am making a proposal to the last two honourable Members, because in three minutes' time you can say something in two minutes, if you agree, that I am able to put your time together so that you can develop your point of view better.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u73	Yes, we agree, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u74	Here, Mr Katsaniotis, you have the floor. So instead of three, you'll have five minutes with a relative tolerance, so you can tell your opinion.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u75	Thank you, Mr President. Taking the floor from the previous ones, I would not like to leave what has happened to the countryside. This government dismantled the OGA, having brought a huge turbulence to the people of hardship, to the people who she says may be a pillar of development for the country. The "State of Athens", the ministers with handkerchiefs, are very difficult to understand what it means to be a farmer. It is very difficult to understand that where forest maps come out, in whatever part of the country, farmers go crazy. It's very difficult to understand the difference that a pasture has from the Voula Panorama. It is very difficult to understand what it means to plunder the NRP 2014-2020 money into the Ministry of Rural Development, every day they say that they will get new programs and that money to stay untapped by the government, which is hosting the countryside, by the government that is hosting the region. Apart from the region, the farmers and the countryside, this government is also hosting something else. It enthusiasts scientists, enemys doctors, lawyers, engineers, the people they create. He's hosting them, because he wants to level down. He's hosting them and destroying them. It eliminates them with a tax-insurance and does not, in fact, give them the right to operate. In particular, doctors, lawyers and engineers, insured by the former EDF, are invited by the end of March to pay the first and second monthly instalments of the contribution of 26,95 for the declared income of 2015, the contributions of the second half of 2016 and the instalments of their debt arrangements. At the same time, the send of the notices for 11% supplementary pension and one-off is pending. In other words, these people are called upon to withstand a marathon of characters, which too many will not stand. The Prime Minister evangelizes the protection of young professionals, their support and the promotion of innovation. But in practice, he's signing their professional death. Mr. Tsipras is fully responsible for this insurance scheme, which invites everyone to make contributions for incomes of 2015, which were normally and presumption higher than 2016, but also why he mocks young scientists in the face, with supposedly reduced contributions at the beginning, but the difference should be paid within 15 years, and indeed by surcharge. However, it is also the current Minister for Labour, a close associate of the former Minister for Labour, who I do not know whether he has understood the monster he created and if he intends to kill it in a one-off way, that is to say to abolish it. Mr. Undersecretary, I'll tell you two things, because you're saying that the world outside is talking about contributions: doctors, lawyers and engineers across the country we know they won't stand. I have here the appeal lodged by the Patras Medical Association. I guess he's not the only one and you have a lot. So, it's not the Patras Medical Association within those who tell you on the road to increase their contributions, as is not the Patras Bar Association and the Technical Chamber. You realize that you have exterminated young scientists and that the only way the scientists who end their studies will not be to do their own office, but to look for their luck abroad. And because, Mr. Secretary, they are unfavorable, I will also give you the invitation to the Halloween Dance of the Patras Bar Association, if you have the time to see it, entitled "Funent"! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u76	Mr Iason Fotillas has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, we have to start by saying things in their name. It is not a reform of the insurance policy that the SYRIZA Government voted for - ANEL in May 2016, with Minister of State at that time Mr. Katrugalos who then left in vain, like escapers. This is an abstract text, written on the leg. That proves that the tabling of an amendment at the last minute for the calculation of pensions. In fact, the law makes a mess in the pockets of the vast majority of insured citizens and especially young people. In fact, it leads to new pension cuts and, apart from the existing reductions, about 3.5 billion, which you have accepted and will soon bring them to the House for vote, ladies and gentlemen of the House. But, of course, at the same time, your single director at the ICBM is growing, in the midst of a recession, by EUR 100,000, and neither a cat nor a harm! That's who you are. You are only looking at how to unleash the naughty retreat of your so-called'red lines'. It has become the shortest joke of the last two years: 'The red lines of SYRIZA'! Ladies and gentlemen, in the very short time available, I would like to refer to the most of the problems that have arisen in the free professions, which, together with the newly insured people, are most of the burdens with the insurance - looting of Mr Katrugalos. In particular, the requirement to pay contributions, based on the revenues of 2015, creates an unprecedented burden on the contributions due and, of course, at the same time, leads to the mismatch of contributions - incomes. In addition, many professionals in insurance funds should manage the unprecedented state of reorganisation and dismantling, prevailing at the local offices of the new insurance institution of the ECA. The case of my constituency, Achaia, in particular Patras, is an indication of the disorganization. In addition to the suffering suffered by the citizens at the offices of the former IKA - I am telling you about the images of disgrace with the incredible tails - I would like to mention the problem of the Single Fund of Independents, the Health and Safety Sector, the former CSY in Patras. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Jasson Fotillas, presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It also presents this, literally dissolution images, since it repeatedly closes its doors and does not serve health, without any prior information. As a result, all health care professionals, such as doctors, pharmacists and others, are unable to issue various necessary public documents, such as tax information, to update their insurance capacity, but also to settle pension cases. Such problems are identified by lawyers in Patras, as well as pan-Hellenic, by letter of 6 March 2017. You have to tell us, Minister, if there is any study on this, some provision on how to move the former insurance funds to the single social security institution at regional level. If there is one, what do you anticipate, so that free professionals in the regions of the country do not have any problems? Ladies and gentlemen, the chaos caused by Mr Katrugalos by his insurance law and emerged on the New Democracy's topical question does not fall as a lightning lightning. It goes with ELSTAT, which the Prime Minister did not know, with PPC, with the ruthless situation of refugees and migrants in Moria and with 70% of the money that the European Union has given, not to know where they have gone. He goes with Mr Flamouraris' miracles and with the tragic health situation in Mr Polakis. Everything reveals an unprecedented inability of governance and administration, which scares citizens. Specifically for insurance, the first data published for the new ECA of May 2016, in relation to April 2016, are impressively negative and dissuasive for the future of social security and social cohesion in our country. While in previous years for a pensioner's payment of pensions it was enough to make contributions by four workers, now because of the decline in employment incomes, along with the prevalence of flexible forms of employment, they have to pay ten employees. At this rate, in 2055, it is estimated that the account that comes out is appalling, as a contribution of EUR 65.6 billion will be lost. Yes, the government of the 'first time on the left' has succeeded in doing so, and flexible forms of work more than permanent and private wages are being reduced. We have said so many times as a New Democracy, it is a matter of the nation's survival to get rid of the SYRIZA Government - ANEL! It needs a new New Democracy government with Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, who will also make these reforms in tax, to give a new perspective for citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u78	Ladies and gentlemen, before I give the floor to the Minister - in addition to the communication you have heard a moment ago - I have the following proposal to the House, dated 10-3-2017: "The Prime Minister and Chairman of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, Mr Alexis Tsipras, and a hundred and forty-three Members of his Party, and the President of the ANEL Parliamentary Group Mr Panagiotis (Panos) Kamnos and eight Members of his Party tabled a proposal for a Special Parliamentary Committee to carry out a preliminary examination, pursuant to Article 86(3) of the Constitution, Articles 153 et seq. of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament and Article 5 of Law 3126/2003 "Priminal responsibility of the Ministers" on the possible execution of the offences, as stated in the proposal presented and as derived from the proposed documents of the Ministers for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights against the former Minister, Mr Ioannis Papantoniou." This proposal will be included in the minutes of today's sitting, it will be distributed to Members and a debate will be drawn up with a special agenda. I say this in addition to what I said earlier.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u79	The Minister has the floor now. I want to inform you that in total, with your tritology, you have thirty-five minutes. Your prototype is 20 minutes. If you need more time, you'll have him, just like everyone else. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u80	Thank you very much, Mr President. As I said earlier, it is an extremely important issue that any debate is taking place on social security in the circumstances in the country. And I would really expect to hear substantial suggestions and thoughts from the honourable Members, even now. The new Republic, which has the principle of 'pacta sunt servanda', is once again responsible for the adoption of Law No.4336 of August 2015, as from that time and then does nothing but create a climate of fear and insecurity in the Greek society. We did not hear any suggestion but the government must leave for the New Democracy to come. So what, after the New Democracy comes? To remain the one-offs since September 2013? How many years should it have been? Is the pensioners' requirement to receive a definitive pension cumulated, and should we come in to start giving pensions and finish their payment in 2017?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u81	What do you think? Ninety thousand applications you have, Mr. Undersecretary...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u82	Mr. Bucketaut, don't interrupt. There is nothing in the Minutes than what you say anyway.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u83	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u84	Mr. Buquoir, it has not been interrupted...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u85	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u86	Mr. Buquoir, can you hear me? Do you see me being in the Bureau? Excuse me! First of all, don't you know that none of the holidays are recorded, not just by you, but by anyone without a microphone?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u87	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u88	Mr. Bukkaro, excuse me, I'm going to have to...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u89	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u90	Please! No one has interrupted the speakers of the New Democracy. Your party's parliamentary representative will take note of these and answer them. Here you go, Minister, continue. You will have the honour of the Bureau because of the interruption.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u91	...which I hope will not be repeated again, so that there will finally be a substantial debate, which has not yet taken place. I understand, Mr Bukkoro, that you come from a rural area, hence your interest, because you were only talking about farmers. I'm talking about the whole country. I'm talking about the problems the social security system has, all these decades have passed. And we also have a responsibility as Members of Parliament, as representatives of the people, of society in all its stratifications, to really propose those that will be a positive step towards a system that has been inflamed all these years. And I said, because you also included relevant questions in your first places, that since August 2013 no single payment was made. Don't come back to the government again, because the citizens, who have been waiting for so long to enjoy their right and cannot. That's what I said. I think it is a major criticism of your demand to come to the government, without saying what you are going to do, because what you will promise you to do, we have not seen it yet. But we see the events of the previous years. We see that about twenty-four thousand five hundred single we will have granted by June 2017. By December 31, 2016, thirteen thousand three hundred and seventy-four singles have been given and some six thousand five hundred in March, that is, twenty thousand eight hundred singles, will have already been given within this month. So look at the results at least by numbers, in practice. You're talking about towels for the ones. A civil servant with forty years of service, with no responsibility, which will be retired in 2017, would receive with a memorandum status of around EUR 40,877. Mr. Brutsi's law would take 21,573 euros. With L.4387 he will receive EUR 26,500. The results are still better, in the new way of calculating them. So don't talk about things that you're responsible for in a way unjustified. It's not just that you weren't giving. You gave it to me. The example I mentioned was about EUR 5,000 less than the one. You have never read L.4387, from your position, because in Article 33, as a way of recalculating the pensions already paid, the pensions paid by each fund, as was the case before L.4387, is mentioned. There is therefore no gap in this recalculation requirement, and in no case does there be any need to expect the factor from ELSTAT. This is already provided for under the law. I said it yesterday, and I say it again today, that the recalculation is based on the pension wages provided for by each fund. Besides, it's already begun. I've told the House before, and I've answered questions. 10% ended until December 2016. 40% will be completed by the end of March for old pensions. So how do we recalculate if the factor that did not exist was needed? So there's no need for a factor. The new pension calculation system does not in any case lead to a reduction in pensions. Indeed, it affects high incomes. It is an issue that we could not avoid, because when you make such changes there are points that favour and some do not favour them. However, as we said - and we are consistent with our original commitment - our system strengthens minimum incomes in order to ensure decent living standards. It is a commitment, resulting from international conventions, which also apply to the insurance system of each country. We have said that even with EUR 500 pensionable earnings, the new system pays for 20 years of insurance total pension of EUR 463, i.e. 93%. We're only talking about the main pension. We are not talking about any subsidiary paid. Forty years of insurance, it gives a 120% replacement rate. The average replacement conditions in Europe do not exceed 70%. Therefore, the practice we have followed in applying the rates for the adoption of pension decisions is as a rule to protect low incomes, to ensure decent living conditions. The economic balance of the Single Social Security Agency is too early to appreciate it. However, the course of the receipts is indicative for the future as well. I said yesterday that it is optimistic that, in January, we had a surplus of EUR 36 million. We have a positive trend in receipts and we have an increased rate of collection. You must also pay attention to the evidence we give from time to time, so that every debate we have been having here is beneficial. It turned out that in December 2016 we paid the EEAY over 4,300,000,000 euros. That's how EEAY was able to give over 500,000,000 in public hospitals. For the first time, payments have been made to providers, pharmaceuticals and health care. For this reason, there is satisfaction on the part of providers who, in previous years, as we all remember, expressed their great indignation because the benefits they provided are not paid. In 2017 we will pay off all the revenues that we will receive for the EEA, i.e. about EUR 5 billion, and already to date we have paid off, February - March 2017, about EUR 935 million. Therefore, all of this data, in a substantial position I make here, prove that things can really go much better. However, false impressions are created in the public speech, which are systematically melted through various factors that form this public speech, people in the media, but you also contribute to it, in a way that does not benefit the country's social security and effort. They took part, for example, in parttime work. There are four million people insured in the country, in the field of private insurance, in the professions and in the private sector. Of these, two million are insured with a dependent labour, five hundred and fifty thousand have part-time jobs. Indeed, for this part of the workforce, i.e. the five hundred thousand people, an average earnings of EUR 394 is being created and an average wage of EUR 27,72. With this sample, it is indeed apparent that some ten partially employed people are needed for a pension, but they are false. A reality is being altered. Because the average wage is EUR 1,176 and the average wage is EUR 51. And you must count this on the four million people insured and not on the five hundred 50 000 who have part-time jobs. It doesn't come out in any way like that. You like to refer to farmers, farmers and fishermen, namely that the OGA, with its transition to EFCA, is causing damage to former OGA members. Three hundred and eighty-six thousand two hundred fifty-four farmers pay less than EUR 50 to 150. The figures are available and published by the FBI: three hundred forty-seven thousand have a difference of about 50 euros, twenty-five thousand three hundred have a difference of 100 euros, thirteen thousand ninety-four have a difference of 150 euros. A relative increase results in about thirty - four thousand people and only six hundred - five out of four hundred four thousand farmers are invited to contribute to the highest level. And what we will ultimately have is a pension right to our farmers, the former members of the OGA, which will not be different from the enjoyment of the insurance right, which all the other Greeks have. This is a matter of choice and we will defend it, in any case. You, obviously, promise, when you will once come back, if you come back to the government, to cut off these rights, to bring farmers back to the minimum level of social protection that has occurred in our country over time. Since 1959, the committee of the then Ministry of Coordination had recorded the lack of a single programme during the introduction of social security as a key problem. We had about three hundred and twenty-five main and subsidiary bodies in the 1990s. This was the result of client choices, lack of organisation and lack of perspective. Of course, there was no perception that should prevail in social security that everyone must be in solidarity with everyone and all be together in a prospect of guaranteeing basic rights. The reduction in pension expenditure at nominal prices in 2009 to 2015 was EUR 2 billion and this, respectively, during the same period, is equivalent to a loss of EUR 44 billion of insured persons, of course cumulatively rather than annually. Nevertheless, we have an expenditure that increases in GDP by 17% in 2015, while in 2009 it was 13.7%. In other words, pensions and insurance incomes are reduced and expenditure is increased. That is all you could achieve because of the lack of a policy that was of interest to workers' rights, wages, collective labour rights and pensions. All this happened although since 2002, expenditure on IKA has been 1% of GDP, 33% on contributions to the other Funds and 66% on the OGA since 1997. This relationship was never observed with regard to GDP or to the public's obligations, because there was always a budget gap and the Greek State came to fill this financial gap, which could not be covered either by the revenue which they were increasingly reducing - meaning insurance contributions - nor, of course, by the funding that was not sufficient. In 2009, funding was EUR 15.6 billion, i.e. 6.58% of GDP and in 2015 we had a share of funding close to 5.5% of GDP. This financial gap cannot be addressed by maintaining the structures of social security before nr. Date of birth: 4787/2016, before the law in force from 1-1-2017, only two months after the date of commencement of its application. Nor can you judge such a great change so early, which, as I said, has already brought about positive results in social security, in the economy and in the operation of the enjoyment of the rights of insured persons. I have to say something here as a message of the joint effort that must finally be done in the country. I was seeing various tail reports yesterday in the former Kalithea Ika. I am also announcing this step because it is not the media - and badly - that the EPCA already provides information electronically through the register used to provide medical and medical care. So what journalists were saying was that the insured were going to inform their books of insurance and medical care is not only misleading, but has a purpose, to create an unjustified concern in the world. There is no need for the insured to appeal to the social security institutions, because this is done electronically. This should only be done by passing children's adulthood when they need to fill out data related to having undertaken tasks in some area as students, because they should go abroad. For such completely exceptional cases, one will need to go to inform the EMCDDA of the relevant statement to cover the protected members. So, at all levels, what I see is that you, gentlemen of the New Democracy, are opposed to anyone who you have at your disposal, against a system that we are trying for the benefit of the Greek people and the economy to put into operation. With this importance, the relevant occupation of my office by the president of the CEDEFOP, accompanying mayors, who were ignoring that their pension entitlement is not affected because they assume responsibility within local government for tasks that are not paid. That's a saying, it's unequivocal. And there comes a body that should be at the highest level of responsibility to create an image that does not respond to reality. The relevant reports on the reduction of insurance contributions are of the same importance, as regards the cheerfulness of the operators, because I have reduced the contributions. Listen, it's not the point here who gets too little and gives too much. Social security is not available for such competitions. We didn't say we'd get less while you'd get more. It's the other thing. The point is that we must create a sense of trust in a leading area of social solidarity, in its most decisive for society and its existence, which must be protected and operating at everyone's advantage, rather than creating impressions that social security is not worthy of defence, and even today what I have heard is that conditions are created to resort to private insurance, in order to meet basic needs. Don't keep talking about social security like this. It's no use to anyone. It's no good for anyone in the country. Nor does the political world benefit from talking in this irresponsible way about such an important issue relating to the very existence of society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u92	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how it operates, forty-eight students and students and three educational attendants from the 1st High School of Skydras Pellas (second section). The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Ioannis Vroutzis, now has the floor. Mr. Brutsi, you have twelve minutes of protology, six minutes of dentology and three minutes of tritology. Unify tritology with protology so that you have fifteen minutes to speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u93	Yes, Mr. President. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I will start with something that is now recorded in the consciousness of the whole world, of the entire Greek people. SYRIZA's divorced with the truth. He's identified with lies and propaganda. I say this because, starting the debate today in a topical process caused by the New Democracy for the insurance system in the country - which is the first historical time in this mess - we asked that Mrs Ahtsoglou be here, as politically should be, representing the government, respecting democratic, parliamentary procedures. The answer from SYRIZA and his representative is that he negotiates with the troika. The troika is gone, it's not here. Well, first big lie! Is Mrs. Ahchioglu in Hilton or in the Ministry or somewhere else? Why isn't he in the House? Well, the troika isn't. Secondly, Minister, you started with a great lie. You must be careful, at least, when you talk to me and know the evidence, I experienced it and two and a half years we housed the Ministry in a way that was unprecedented in the country's insurance. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] You talked about the single ones. With the money we received, EUR 3.1 billion from the then troika, today institutions, we paid up to the end of September 2013 ninety-seven thousand thirty-seven single, 180% increase. We handed you the scenery with the ones. And you up to 1-6-2016-- I'm going to file the press release for confirmation - you've given zero single. That's who you are. I testify, please, so people know the truths. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Ioannis Vroutsis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Secondly, this very serious debate, which is taking place today, is taking place within a very heavy political, economic and social climate. Economic and social climate is heavy, because we all know that the country's economy is dragging, uncertainty and insecurity are spread over businesses, above the workers, above the unemployed. There seems to be no prospect, all the social and economic indicators in the country are falling apart. And unfortunately, at the same time, what we called 'insurance' lies in an absolute chaos. He has been identified with the word Babel. I'll explain it. The third is that the elements of the 'ERGAN' were announced yesterday, which you have just called into question. So I inform the Greek people, who knows them. The "ERGANI", after all, is the only tool that I have given you, which you have not abolished, you have retained, and the results of which you are proud of. Everything else has been abolished. And we'll explain about that. So, yesterday, Minister, it showed in her results that, for the first time in the history of the country's labour market, flexible forms of employment are completely dominant under the responsibility of SYRIZA. In 2015 and 2016, there was the biggest historical overthrow against the workers and the unemployed with the signature SYRIZA and ANEL! You're responsible. We have given you a labour market with problems, with deficits, of course, and with pathogens. But we were fighting. Unemployment began to decline with a strong trend of declining. We got her at 27.9%, at the highest level. We delivered it to you at 25.5%, 2.2 points, with a strong tendency to degrade. On 31-12-2016, unemployment should have been closed to 19.5%. And yesterday, according to ELSTAT's figures, it seems that for five months he's been detained at 23.1%. And it will be closed at 23.5%, that is, four points of deviation, which means two hundred thousand jobs lost with SYRIZA. That's who you are. This is happening on your own responsibility. I am tabling the results of yesterday's 'ERGAN', which proves the historic overthrow under the responsibility of SYRIZA and ANELs against workers. Flexible forms of employment dominate! [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Vroutsis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And another thing that relates to uncertainty and insecurity, because you do not close the evaluation: if someone gets the elements of "ERGANI" and sees in the last five months, ladies and gentlemen, with sadness it will make a statement. Because, above all, we're Greek. Because we in the New Democracy, Minister - and you know that, Mr SYRIZA, - have the national interest in the party. And I wish the results were different. It will therefore be noted that you, Minister, and all of SYRIZA: from your Chief, Mr. Tsipras, who unscrupulously come here and lie so much to the entire cabinet. They were coming here as an opposition and I was going down as a Minister of Labour at that time and with a sadness I saw under the Ministry - they hear the young children, and that never happens in the future, this is the New Democracy that makes the difference - the SYRIZA posters you put in and told the world not to pay contributions and taxes. You are irresponsible and dangerous and incompetent. One hundred and fourteen thousand jobs have been lost in the past five months, due to incapacity and uncertainty in the economy. Data on 'ERGANI', I submit them to the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Vroutsis, presents for the Minutes the above figures, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] On the contrary, ladies and gentlemen, you have a man who does not claim infallibility or perfection. I'm a politician. I took over the Ministry of Labour's agenda at a very difficult time for the country. I did what was humanly possible in a direction to tell the truth and to house and open streets. And indeed, I know how to honor the past - something you have never done, because you are - I know and respect when I take responsibility, not to show the past with the finger. I moved politically, building on what I received. And there were mistakes in the past. Of course they were. And there will always be. When you deal with politics, it's never perfect. The politician's role is to build. And not to look at the weaknesses of the past. Ladies and gentlemen, the insurance system in our country for decades has had weaknesses, had problems, pathogens, a mosaic full of exceptions and special regimes. That was the country's insurance policy. Whenever the process was politically initiated decades ago by politicians to correct, there has always been the wave of populism, the wave of demagogicism that was counter-reforming the reforms. They were SYRIZA's ancestors, but also SYRIZA. It was the left in the streets: "Don't touch anything, don't hurt anything." The system, unfortunately, proceeded in the form it was and arrived in 2010. I would like to inform you that for the first time in the country, under the financial adjustment framework - and I would like you to hear that, ladies and gentlemen - the first national financial agreement with the institutions has come into force in the past. I will deposit the country's national insurance agreement, Article 11, p.3863. I'm going to read it to you because the moments are very critical, historical, and it's worth all to see. It must be our country from 2011, which is, by 2060, to close the agreement on insurance, the study that will be carried out and the assessment - that is, the proportionate study - does not exceed 2.5% of the percentage points of GDP by reference year in 2009. The country's national agreement, ladies and gentlemen, was that. I put the country's national agreement in the record. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Ioannis Vroutsis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] This national agreement was not concluded by 2012. I took over in 2012. There were no tools, there was no possibility. We closed in 2014, under the hardest assumptions the Ageing Working Group put on. The troika agreed, the institutions, the European Commission, the first and only proportionate study. It is her, Minister, which will accompany you and haunt you. It's closed. Greece has achieved and fulfilled the conditions for the viability of the insurance. I'm doing the insurance study. Kyriakos Mitsotakis had testified to her when Mr. Tsipras had a debate on the insurance policy, but she was ignored. I would again like to return to the analogy study, the only one with the signature of the institutions. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Ioannis Vroutsis, presents for the minutes the abovementioned analogy study, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] National deal's over. As a standstill, it was only 310 million, Hardouvelis email. And what did you do? You yelled at Syntagma Square and outside the House, you lied to the world, you took the election, you brought financial derailment, and then you did the "national crime", as I say, the great national gave. You cancelled the country's national insurance agreement, agreed in 2010 and completed in 2014. You blew everything up. And the financial derailment has led, after 310 million, to transfer to insurance 3.6 billion weight, reductions for low-pension workers, for the EKRF, for dividends, for main pensions, for ancillarys. That's what you did. This is the result of your wrong policy and your inability, your negotiating failure. Now listen to three figures that the Greek people do not know about. I'll put it in public for the first time. To God, however, it is not understood that we are entering a competitive process of reductions. Oh, no! The question each time is how necessary this financial adjustment was to be made. First Memorandum: Reductions in insurance, financial adjustment, 3.5 billion. Second Memorandum: 3.9 billion. And in the third memorial, the inappropriate memorandum of SYRIZA, because it really didn't have to be, as we pay the paths of your demagoguery and your populism, 10 billion euros. It is 3.5 billion, 2% of GDP, the reductions that will run until the end of 2019 with the abolition of the CSCE and it is the personal difference - that is to say, for young pensioners - from 12 May 2016 onwards - the Katorugalos - SYRIZA - ANEL - which are the reductions mid-weightly 20% to 25% in the main pensions. When the insurance cycle of the new law closes, then we'll have a loss of 5.5 to 6.5 billion. The Greek people will know that the SYRIZA package is 10 billion euros. That's what the Greek people pay. That was the result and the price of your account. And, unfortunately, that's not all. Unfortunately, it turns out today - and our spokesman from New Democracy said it before and asked you as a question - that you are going to ban personal differences for today's pensioners too. The smiles and promises made by Mr Tsipras - apart from the 10 billion cut - from this one's Pension Growth Step and that, 'we're done, so far it was', were also a lie. You are getting drunk and you have tended to abolish the personal difference between the current pensioners and the current pensioners. And what SYRIZA is now negotiating as a government is not whether it will be reduced, but how it will be reduced and when. So you are negotiating the time to cut the personal difference, that is, 20% to 25%, for the current pensioners, the two million seven hundred thousand pensioners. That's who you are! What are we in today's situation? The situation is tragic, ladies and gentlemen. Our country's insurance system has never had such a tragic picture, such a sad image, such an image of collapse and dissolution. Blocks. Inconceivable. You have free professionals to pay double contributions for '15 with reference to their tax declaration for the current '16. Double contributions because, due to incapacity, you did not build the online platform on January 1, 2017. And you made an interpretative circular, and we told you it was wrong, and you made a corrigendum to an interpretative circular. And because it is not corrected, you referred to shut down the possibility of paying until 17 March. The definition of incapacity. That won't work either. Interesting contributions: Who are you? With what right did you put into the country's new scientific potential 37% of contributions? You put 37% on the engineers, doctors, lawyers, on the country's scientific potential. Who are you? Don't make sense for me to reduce the intensity of the voice. You are criminalizing our country's human capital that can't pay and close after each other and you're prosecuting them with Brain Drain abroad. But you will see our proposals.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u94	When?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u95	Now. You'll hear. Have some patience. On the issues of opacity from here, you go into a process that never happened before at the Ministry of Labour. I am not talking about you, Minister. I do not question your moral formation. Mrs. Fotio, direct assignments of eight hundred thousand euros? Where did you find it? Two and a half years Minister, I've never been directly assigned. Who are you? I don't want to expand to the other things of morality...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u96	What assignment are you referring to?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u97	I'm on it. I've denounced her here, and we're moving on.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u98	In particular, what assignment are you referring to?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u99	Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u100	On the issue of the direct assignment of eight hundred thousand euros. Eight hundred thousand directly awarded by Mrs. Fotio, while she could have scheduled it with a regular competition. Shame on you! Shall I go to the math fiasco now? I'm leaving it. Now, listen here, though. The Minister asks Mr Papatheodorou and says to him Mr Papatheodorou: 'Yes, Mrs Fotou did so.' That's what it says...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u101	No, it wasn't school meals that you didn't want...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u102	That's what it says, eight hundred thousand direct assignments. Listen to your mistakes. He said "yes" Mr. Papatheodorou. The lens showed him to say 'yes'. You were caught by the lens "in the lens".
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u103	School meals...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u104	You're welcome, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u105	Is that an emergency?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u106	Calm down, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u107	Please, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u108	Calm down. Let the speaker continue. Go on, Mr. Brutsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u109	Now, listen up. I showed you just before for the single ones. The institutions came, the troika, and gave them eight hundred and fifty nine million. I came to this step representing New Democracy and voted with both hands to get the money. Above all it's homeland, it's our country's interest. Eight hundred and fifty-nine million. How many pensions did you give out of eight hundred and fifty million? And your commitment is from November of '16 to October of '17 to give pensions. November zero, December zero, January zero, February zero. Not even a pension of eight hundred and fifty million because you're unorganized, because you're dealing with other things, your ideas and your authoritarianism. Speaking of authoritarianism, listen to the respect of the parliamentary procedure. Mr President, I would like you to hear that, because it is about democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u110	Everyone in this debate hears what you say, not just you, but everyone. Mr Brutsis, I would remind you that you have already exceeded the time you requested from the previous President, beyond your prototype, to make use of the time of your tritology. You won't have the time of dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u111	I'm closing, Mr. President. So at this point, ladies and gentlemen of the government, I will say about your authoritarianism, about your gheebsism, about your conscientious perception. In the one-off, which I was reverently observing, and no one could break the line towards the citizens - I mentioned just before - you altered the order of payment. You gave forty-forty-three single to ‘friends’ and ‘dates’. We have called on you in the House to bring the evidence and you have covered it. Well, gentlemen, what a document I'm presenting today. Listen to the consensual perception of symbols. The commander, then, of the one-handed Ferrati Frangiskatos, says to the questions - the other members of the board - who are summoned and told, "Let's see what you give priority to the ones," he says: "I don't give them to anyone. I will assess them myself in my office." That's what the Syrian commander you put in. Rejoice him. This is SYRIZA! I'm putting out the paper on the Syrian commander and the two hundred and forty-three friends who took the ones and didn't bring them to the House. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Ioannis Vroutsis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Give it to the Minister and to the Syrian MPs - and to the ANELs - to see where you have become the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u112	Shame on you! Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u113	I am now going, ladies and gentlemen, to the motions for a directive, because time is short. Firstly, reduce the contributions to free professionals and self-employed persons. This system cannot be maintained. We'll cut them down. Secondly, we are reducing the contributions you have made to employed, the tax wedge, what is undermining employment in our country for years, this left-hand concept, the sick person you have and undermined our country's national economy. Undermining the workers, create unemployment. And this six-point reduction, which we have made, has led to the rapid reduction and declining of unemployment. Therefore, a reduction in exterior contributions, a reduction in non-wage costs and transparency. We will bring back the 'HLIO' that you have hidden, the most transparent and the most innovative element in all of Europe. There is no other insurance system in Europe. On June 1, 2013, we conquered transparency, defeated monkey pensions. Until August 2015 and six months of your presence in the government you showed it. Next month you didn't show it. Why? Because he had the reductions of SYRIZA and you had Mr. Tsipras, the Prime Minister, to say that the pensions were not reduced. And you stopped pulling the "ELIO" which was a transparent element for the insurance system and many children made their master's degree. We shall therefore reintroduce transparency. Fourth, pensions in one day. Enable the "ATLA" which you have stopped because of your arrogance and your incursion so that you do not get from the previous ones something that is unique. billions of man-hours and workers' hours of work have been recorded in a system which allows for the first time electronically to have pensions in one day. You stopped it from arrogant and sworn. We shall therefore be running this procedure immediately so that all pensions can be paid quickly. Of course, we will also run the issues that concern our other policies on insurance, as is to move on with the professional funds which your ideology has stopped them here. For my first time, the possibility for the professional funds to give certain industrial sectors the opportunity to choose autonomously whether they want to do their own thing in their subsidiary fund, in the second so-called pillar.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u114	Mr. Brutsi, please have it completed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u115	I'm done, Mr. President. I recently leave the great structural change that we are going to make, because you have now transformed this insurance structure into a framework of foresight of insurance, which is undermined by itself. After the twenty-five years there is no one in the interest, because of the replacement rates, to remain in the system. We're going to change the replacement factors. We'll make it fair, make it transparent, make it payback. These are our differences and proposals, Mr Petropoulou, which you are naturally ignorant of. Go ahead. For a little while, thank God! They can hope for both our workers and the unemployed and the pensioners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u116	We continue with the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman, Mrs Skoufa.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u117	Thank you, Mr President. Although I am in plenary session, you will allow me to make an introductory remark, mainly as a citizen. I am impressed that in the two years that I am a Member of Parliament, the fact that the New Democracy is most informed about the course of the negotiations, a negotiation that I am supposed to - or I hope - is taking place behind closed doors. In other words, ladies and gentlemen, you anticipate things and bring them to the House four, five months before we deal with them. In fact, I would also like to know Greek fellow citizens, where this information is from. Secondly, you know very well that a very tough negotiation is taking place in these days as well in relation to both the pension and the IMF's requirement to abolish the personal difference. What exactly is your position to eliminate the personal difference? Because we are vertical and absolute and say 'no', however unfavourable the international environment is. You keep calling for direct elections irrelevant, despite the fact that in our opinion, and in the opinion of the majority of Greek citizens that the second assessment should be closed, that we enter the programme of quantitative relaxation and that the economy of the country should begin to work even further. Despite this I want to remind you at this point of what your actions were, not because we are oppositioning, but because the world understands the state of the insurance funds when SYRIZA, the Ecologies and the ANELs came to the government with a choice and command of the Greek people in January 2015. Has the Greek people forgotten, or do you want to forget that during the five years 2010-2014 you have made eleven pension cuts? Eleven! Two cuts per year! This has led to a reduction in pensions of between 20% and over 50%. Eleven cuts, ladies and gentlemen, over five years. So your logic was the deficits of the insurance funds - because we have received them with deficits - to cure them through pension cuts. That was your tactic.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u118	And you?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u119	I start with the fact that no one will forget. We are talking about reducing the pensionable earnings of pensioners by EUR 44 billion over a five-year period.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u120	All pensions are 30 billion. How did they fall by 44 billion? They've given her the wrong numbers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u121	I didn't interrupt you. I listened very carefully. Please, Mr President, take over.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u122	Mr. Metarakis, please. Time is limited and Mrs Scouffa will rightly protest later.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u123	Do you want the Greek people to remember the phenomenon and the fact of the PSI, the amount of billions lost the insurance funds in reserves, which would help in the future to pay pensions? During your days and up to 2014 there were a hundred sixty thousand outstanding applications for retirement. We ask: Why so many? Do you want the Greek people to remember what the proposal for a pension in terms of Hardouvel's email was? Do you want to remember that your proposal was to apply the zero deficit clause to both ancillary and one-off and that this application of the zero deficit clause horizontally to all pensions would mean a 19% reduction from 1/1/2016 and 13% for the current year, in total, 32% to the already cut-off pensions? [[At this point, the end of the speech bell of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] Mr President, I would like your tolerance. You mentioned a number of things about farmers and the free traders. I want two, three minutes more than my time to expose the real situation, so that the free professionals know what they will pay for their insurance in insurance contributions and what they will pay for their tax. At the end of the day, I will provide concrete information on the insured persons of the OAU, so that every citizen knows EUR 1,000 exactly how much of the income he will pay for insurance contributions and how much you pay for taxation. With the new law, therefore, those who have an income of up to EUR 17,773 will benefit from those who belong to the first insurance scale or up to EUR 35,546 for those who own the last insurance scale. As far as the new members of the OSCE are concerned, those who were insured, namely, after 1-1-993, will benefit those who have an income of up to EUR 15,234 for the first insurance scale or up to EUR 40,624 per year for those who belong to the last insurance scale. On the basis of these elements, it will ultimately be favoured by more than 80% of the OSCE insured persons. To be precise, I will say this: according to the communication issued - and in no way mentioned it because it is of no interest to you - the Hellenic Confederation of Trade and Entrepreneurship, the Confederation of the classes you are proclaiming that you are defending, 77% of the entrepreneurs will have - and have - a lower level of insurance contributions of this year. You told us about the new freelance professionals. First fact - first truth - which you deliberately hide by creating terrorist images, wanting to create terrorist images to the Greek people: The amount of the minimum contributions of the new free professionals from EUR 2.528,52 - the minimum contributions, I say - which were, until now, with the new law that we brought and the majority vote will be EUR 1,895,38. Of course they will also have reduced insurance contributions in the first five years, but after 15 years they will pay off, but not by 8% of the increase you let demagogically mean, but on the basis of the so-called deflationist, who may also have negative or zero values in terms of its change. Let me note that the final rate of insurance contributions is not even 26.95%. Actually, it's 21,22883%. Because when we say that the UAE insured person, for example, pays 20% for insurance contributions and 6.95% for health care...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u124	Mrs. Scouffa, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u125	I shall conclude with that, Mr President. ...of this real income has already been deducted from the insurance contributions paid last year plus the tax expenses. So - I say again - the actual rate of insurance contributions, on real income, is 21.22%. I could refer to many, most of all, for farmers, whom we actively defend and say that on the basis of their stated tax declarations, 90.08% of farmers pay a lower premium. I would remind you that in addition to the taxation of main subsidies, the tax rate, the level of subsidies, the amount of EUR 12 000, this government has introduced and abolished taxation from the first euro.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u126	Mrs. Scouffa, please, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u127	I'm sorry I misused your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u128	You asked for two three minutes and I gave them to you. You've reached eleven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u129	Thank you for your tolerance, Mr President. I would just like to put forward, for the truth, the specific detailed tables, so that colleagues too can learn the reality and not disperse to Greek citizens unsympatheticly lies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u130	The parliamentary spokesman for the Democratic Alliance, Mr Loverdos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u131	Indeed, so much the farmers have understood the fighting way in which their government defends them, which is why farmers who came from Crete yesterday, when they left, sent a warning to the SYRIZA and ANEL Members not to dare go down to Crete. It is the return of love that the rural world shows to this government. Now, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I want your understanding because I am prepared for the insurance, I have also served as a Minister for Labour. I will also ask the President, if necessary, for my five-minute period under the Rules of Procedure, after speaking as a parliamentary representative of the Democratic Independence. I have come for this today in the House, but in politics you can never anticipate, the proposal to set up the Committee on Preliminary Examination has been tabled and I have to start with it. I ask the President to understand, I hope he will show her. We say 'yes' to the pre-examination, as we call it in the parliamentary group, yes to your proposal for a pre-examination committee for the armaments for whatever years you want, for the years you have said and for whatever you want. We have no reason to defend anyone. We say 'yes' as we said 'yes' to the media and parties examination and, as we said, 'yes' and you said 'no'. We say 'yes' to the pre-examination committee for Varoufakis and the participants. We are saying 'yes' to the pre-examination committee for the Attica Bank, we are now saying 'yes'. We say 'yes' to what else emerges, 'yes' to any examination, even to any preliminary examination or as we call it 'yes' in the pre-examination here. You said ‘no’ in the examination for Varoufakis and the events of 2015. You said 'no' about the responsibilities with regard to the memorandum before 2009. You said 'no' to what has to do with the actual examination and now bring in a proposal for a preliminary inquiry. Why? To find the truth? We will strive to shine the truth. No compromises, no setbacks, transparency everywhere, so we will fight. But you don't fight for it. You bring them here now that you don't have what to say about insurance, about the work they put you and the lock out on the table. You don't have what to say about tax-free. You don't have what to say about the recession and go to corruption, because you were struggling with Aki's artificial guardianship just before the 2012 elections, - it could happen before, later, it happened at a "appropriate" moment - and you think this way you will rewrite old stories. All in the light! 'Yes' to the pre-examination, 'yes' to the exams, 'yes' to what you want to note our legal colleagues. As has already been said and applied by Greek justice and by the House, when it comes to laundering - I say it to the catapult, money laundering, etc. - You don't have to go directly to your criminal judge and the prosecutor. There is no need for this House, there is no need for pre-examination, there is a need for justice on its own and on the basis of its own legislation. You're bringing them here, dear birds, because you want to make a scenery again. Inside here, no setbacks, but for everything, for all light. I'm on it again. "Yes" in the pre-examination examination anything you want for the 2003 equipment and whenever you want, "yes" in the pre-examination Varoufakis, "yes" and everything else that comes up. Now we go to the national crime that took place in January 2015. You were present. I agree with Mr. Brutsi. Mr Brutsi, you have a name, you are not the 'ERGAN'. I have a name, I'm not n.3863. We're not ashamed to praise a colleague and SYRIZA if he belongs. You come after four years of attempts, four Ministers, with trouble, to make the national crime not to accept the insurance. An insurance you're lying about had led to cuts. 50% of this is shared in us and in the New Democracy, and you are now doing something as a matter of urgency. My cuts, and with the pension gifts that were abolished, touched 12%. The New Democracy's cutbacks - but with Mr Brutsi's responsibility - another 12%. The biggest reduction in insurance is now taking place. And anyone who learns to do well about the calculation of the new regulations for the ninety thousand who are waiting to get their pensions, new pensioners, and anyone who sees the adjustments will understand that the towel is now and has the following signatures: Katrugalos, Petropoulos, Ahtsoglou and those of you who replace you in the smallest or most future that you have in the government. You came in early 2015. I know numbers and laws and things. These are experienced in my skin, with you underneath, bats, with you underneath indignant. So I know exactly what had been implemented by 2015, and what it was going to be, and what the growth figures were, what prospects were given to the insurance system. Mr Brutsis has said so. We'll see you. The objective insurance observers shall record it. I'm not saying everything was right. The Minister, Mr Skourletis, and the Deputy Minister, Mr. Army, are coming to say that there is no L.3863. All from the beginning. They come to make benefits, and then one kept one's self-respect and seriousness and left, the other continues from another government post, while his colleagues are making a real raid on insurance. The zero deficit clause was 300 million maxims. And right, either he has a fund to give what he's getting money for or he doesn't. What you've done isn't over. Because the personal difference for two million people is ahead, it's not back, it's done. You've accepted it, but it hasn't been done yet. However, other things have been done. I said for sixty-five years and on a voluntary basis for sixty-seven. You said one and sixty-seven. I was saying in some cases escalation, you are once and for all. The hardest of Greek politics and your mirror are widow's pensions. I've never offended you. I'm talking hard, but I respect and I'm trying something the Spartans have done to observe, after a fight to be able to smile, to show the other that I don't have anything with him and I don't swear him. And you're coming to say "regardlessness"? Did you talk about recklessness? Did you dare say yesterday to the Greek Parliament that of your predecessors? You who made a calculation of new pensions without setting the formula and consulting ELSTAT months later? And where did you say yesterday to justify: "But, I didn't think that's not ready"? You're a liar. It's a political controversy not to know or to do what you don't know when you swear saying so. Because, ladies and gentlemen, we are out of our minds in this Chamber, or rather you want to drive us crazy, but we are not going to go crazy. I am tabling Article 5 of Law 3863, which, with regard to the most difficult issue of insurance, successive pensions, has not only regulated them, but also laid down the type. And I want to say it here, because it's not bad for you to recognize someone else's efforts. This guy was written by George Koutrumani. When you make arrangements and you are Minister and you respect the title that Greek democracy has given you, you also provide the conditions for implementation. We for successives have defined the type for our own law. I put it to those colleagues who are entitled not to know the details. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Andreas Loverdos, presents for the minutes this article, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] As far as the question of adjustment is concerned, it is a well-established issue of insurance law. With Mr Brutsis we have exchanged arguments in the wider public debate, with the presence of a SYRIZA colleague who was looking at, while telling the inaccuracies about 20% reductions. I said, Mr. Kegeroglu, that our reductions, with me, Luca Katseli and Kutrumanis, were 12%, on Brutsis another 12%. Today will become the biggest, ever, 20% reduction. They are the 'friends of the people', who are enemies of the people, because they are populists. And what's populism? Lacquism is to tell the citizen that the state is a supermarket, come get whatever you want. That's what you told him. And now you're having trouble because they're after you. As far as the adjustment is concerned, I submit for the minutes Article 11, the adjustment of pensions and age limits, p. 3863/2010. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Andreas Loverdos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And for us to know what we are talking about here and to do our self-criticism, and also to ask for any apologies, Mr Secretary, for being here instead of Mrs Ahtsoglou's Minister, who fled. Because from what we have learned, we do not make contact with the troika - the troika left yesterday. How does he negotiate with the troika today? In any case, however, it is a duty at some point, because the procedure will still have to come to the House inspected. And I'm closing up with one last point. I've got a lot, but we're going to have a conversation about insurance. And then, all this will come here with paintings, in the text of the question, not in the conferences, to move it in writing around the world. The last argument, ladies and gentlemen, is for the CSCE. You dare talk about social sensitivity in this Chamber, about an institution that we, as PASOK, have done, an institution that we have kept with teeth, an institution that we have resisted, to keep aid to the poor and to finances a little better than the absolute poor. And you reaped it. You cut it. You took it to zero. And they dare to say, ladies and gentlemen of the majority in the media, "But the ETUC is not a pension". Yes, it is not a pension for the CSCE, but the CSCE is money, to the low pensioner and to the man who cannot deal with his life's problems, his financial problems. You cut it. And you have the courage to come to the National Representation and speak. At least the others, of unity, have left. You stayed here to be the most neoliberal political leadership in the country, as many years as I remember politics after the civilisation. But you don't have a long life like that. Lies have short feet. You will pay for everything, but all the lies you have told the Greek people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u132	We continue with the Parliamentary Representative of the People's League - Golden Dawn, Mrs. Germenis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u133	Today we are discussing the New Democracy's topical question about the burdens and gaps that workers and pensioners experience every day. I will not go into the process of explaining how the partnership was made so that they could rule together a left party, such as SYRIZA, with a so-called patriotic party, such as that of the ANELs, which is struggling in the patriotic space. Now, of course, what kind of patriotic party can be that, when voting for memoranda granting national sovereignty, this is another topic for discussion. I will, however, remain equally paradoxical, in that we have the left government of SYRIZA and that the left is supposed to have solved these issues, these employment and pensions a long time ago. With the occasional manifesto it publishes, when it was still opposition, it said it would come to the government and implement it, come to the government and tear the memorandum. Instead, we have another madness in the matter, the party of Officerial Response, the main party of capitalists and neoliberals to be cut and to table a timely question, allegedly for the fairness of the workers and pensioners who you and PASOK have voted for everything for their impoverishment, since you brought any anti-corruption measure there was for vote. But let us come to the point and get things in turn from the Giorgakis Papandreou dictionary at Kastelorizo. Why did he choose Kastelorizo? What for? The Memorandum of Understanding began with the adoption of shameful laws that had no purpose despite the impoverishment of the Greek citizen. Speaking with real facts, going back to the laws that all of you voted on, leftists, centralists, right-wings who are supposed to be cutting you off for the fairs of the people, the fairs of the workers and pensioners, you all have your responsibilities. And let's talk in particular. With Mr.3845/2010, passed in May 2010 with Minister of PASOK, Mr. Loverdos, the gift cut, 13th and 14th main pensions was voted. With L.3863/2010 and L.3865/2010, a reform of Mr.Loverdou with Minister of Koutromanis changed the method of calculating pensions, leading to escalating reductions that increase with the period of years. Law 3869/2011 imposed a special contribution for the solidarity of pensioners. The law provided for reductions in supplementary pensions of up to 3% for amounts exceeding EUR 300 to 10% for supplementary pensions exceeding EUR 650. With Law 4024/2011 again with the trade unionist Koutrumani, who cares about workers' fairs, even greater reductions were made in the main pensions of younger people this time. The same law imposed reductions in supplementary pensions. For private subsidiary, the reductions were 15%, while for civil servants a 20% reduction of the second subsidiary was foreseen. Again with the working father Koutrumani and Law 4046/2012 the auxiliary ones were reduced. In particular, for amounts above EUR 250, the reduction was 10%. For amounts of EUR 251 to EUR 300, the reduction was up to 15%. For sums above EUR 300, the reduction was 20%. And we're going to the government of Samaras and the psalmism Samaras was saying to be elected since the time of Zappeion. We have heard Mr Brutsi and tell us what he will do - how much we have heard! - when it becomes government. But listen to what he did when he was a government. With Law 4093/2012, in January 2013 new reductions in main and supplementary pensions were made. Gift benefits have been abolished in the main and the subsistence allowances. In July 2014, the zero-deficit clause applied to supplementary pensions with the result that those who were then joining the Hypothetical Fund suffered horizontal reductions of 5,2 %. And we come to the government of the 'first time left', the professed communist Katrugalo, who cares about workers' rights, and Mr v. 4336/2015 by which the ECHR was abolished for 158,000 low pensioners and the provision will be phased out in 2020 for 370,000 low pensioners. And we come to Law No.4387, the well-known Katorugalou law, where pensioners are confronted with new cuts. Already last August 2016 around 250,000 saw their supplementary pensions falling to 50%. Total Memorandum Losses for ASs reach and exceed 76%. You are, gentlemen, left-wing, right-wing and centre-right, and it is important that you do not bring such timely questions, because you are also putting yourself in your parliamentary groups. It is advisable to keep a low profile so that you do not fool yourself with what is heard by the Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u134	The parliamentary representative of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Katsotis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u135	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, the JRC continues with its powers to organise the struggle of the people against the policy pursued by the government aimed at capitalist revival. This policy is, after all, the link between the conflict with the other parties that support this development path, which has the profit as an incentive. Despite any differences, your strategy is common, namely the defence of business and monopoly groups, the objectives of capitalist growth, the strengthening of competitiveness, namely its profitability, the support of the European Union, NATO, the country's participation in geostrategic planning in the region. These objectives define your attitude to all aspects of people's life, which lives with insecurity, uncertainty, poverty and impoverishment. With the timely deposited by the New Democracy, and we are discussing today, it is clear that it is inconvenient to see when Law No.4387/2016, the well-known Katorugalou law, will apply. The questions put appear to be better off that they are basically in the same direction as the policy expressed and demanded that it be accelerated. Indirectly puts its ideological position on what insurance system we want from now on in the logic of 'what we receive is what we pay', Mr Brutsis said very clearly in his position. In other words, a purely privatised system, in the same logic of law, of course, Katrugalu. Whoever fights between the government and Civicism do not hide that what they fight for is who is most appropriate to implement the anti-grassroots measures and the restructuring needed for the recovery of capital, which they both support. The current government has maintained all the anti-grassroots grid shaped by the previous government. It has not abolished any law and has continued from where the previous people have stopped, overthrowing employment and insurance rights. All the measures taken by the SYRIZA - ANEL government will be maintained if New Democracy finds itself in the government. It also appeared from the proposals made by the parliamentary representative, Mr Brutsi, here today. It will also continue to legislate further requirements of capital. What do you really say about the concept of recompense? Mr. Brutsi was clean. Are you in favour or against? Compensation means a state and employers' exemption from participation in insurance, a complete transfer of the weight of the insurance to the workers' backs. State funding is falling all the time. In the debate with the institutions, its further decline, the decline in the lower level of pensions and any other benefits. Is your policy different? Do you have any other place, gentlemen of the New Democracy? Unemployment deprives resources from the insurance system. Do you have another proposal for other growth that will benefit the people rather than capital, for growth that will satisfy the needs of the people and not the profits of business groups? Elastic forms of employment, which are generally seen, are a continuation of your own policy. You are standing against the workers' request for full and stable work for everyone, because you are serving the needs for the flexibility of business groups to ensure their profits. Do you, gentlemen, disagree with the abolition of collective agreements, with the minimum wage of EUR 586 and EUR 511 for young people respectively? It's your creation! It is maintained by the current government, so that the flows in the insurance system are reduced. Did you raise the issue of reserves? You are the masters guilty over time of the little trick that has been done, and it concerns over EUR 120 billion. In addition, the Commission has decided to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 93(2) of the EC Treaty in respect of aid granted by the French Government to the steel industry. Are you, gentlemen, in favour of reintroducing the third and fourteenth pensions? But it is your decision to abolish, which the SYRIZA - ANEL government has maintained and legitimised under the Katorugalou law. Are you against increasing the age limits for pensions? But it is also your decision to increase age limits, to abolish the heavy and unhealthy professions, to abolish the difference in age limits for women, to reduce disability pensions and to slaughter them through CEDEFOP. All of this, which the SYRIZA - ANEL government has maintained, has of course legislated and made it even worse. Gentlemen of the New Democracy, the PASOK, the River, and all of you who are present today in different places, have voted for the third memorandum, No. Other information: (a) 4336/2015, specialised by Law No.4387/2016, the well-known Katorugalou law. With this law, gentlemen, we have huge increases in the age limits of women and men. This law abolished the concept of the foundation of the pension entitlement. This law provided for a reduction in social expenditure on GDP. This law began to reduce the CSR by specific timetables. This law provides for the integration of all social security actors into a fund. This law requires the connection of contributions and benefits. You have voted for all of this, and now you are acting as a host. All of this increases age limits and breaks down pensions. Gentlemen, it is neither realistic nor modern in 2017, with the rapid development of labour technology and productivity, working for the people until 67 years and getting a pension - tip. Social security became hard struggles, thousands of workers and youth were bloodshed. No one should reconcile with your choices, choices that implement the requirements of business groups, whose earnest desire now is overthrowing social security. Their demands never stop and are implemented today by the SYRIZA - ANEL, probably by the New Democracy. The unemployed, who live in the Golgotha, workers who are experiencing an incredible war on every right, the self-employed, who are destroyed, the poor farm that is perishing, the unemployed and immigrant, the pensioners who see their expectations of decent living with hunger pensions, have, on the way of their coexistence, their alliance, their emancipation by the forces of capital. One way is to get the JRC together in the fight against the barbarity of this system, which is not improving, corrected, but as long as it becomes increasingly aggressive towards the people. His overthrow is a one-way street. This struggle also needs to be dominated by the demands of the working class and the popular movement. The claim of the losses suffered by workers, pensioners, the people, needs to be strengthened. No compromise with the requirements of capital presented as reforms! Their realism is their profits, they are the overthrows of every right of workers. The wealth is produced by the many who work and pocket his "parasites". Workers, self-employed, poor farms, pensioners are entitled to live with all their needs. Young people are entitled to dream, plan their future and not live the nightmare of unemployment, flexibility. In this sense, gentlemen, we call for the abolition of all the reinsurance measures, the exclusive public universal, compulsory, social security, the direct payment of the State's debts to social security, the full coverage by the State of the stolen funds, immediate release of all of the Stock Exchanges and any other gambling.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u136	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u137	I shall conclude, Mr President. We ask: Integration into the heavy and unhealthy professions and specialties of workers who existed and removed them. Immediate action to prevent and deal with occupational risk and to protect health and safety of health. Direct reduction in insurance contributions, abolition of contributions from insured persons to the health sector. Single, universal, exclusive public and free modern health care system with state-funded exclusive. Steady working hours with 35 hours and five days seven hours. Signing of sectoral collective agreements with increases in wages and replacement of their losses. Gentlemen, today people could live better, but this system does not allow it. That's why his overthrow is a one-way street. The overthrow of the insurance system of this law that you have voted on is a one-way road to have the pensions that pensioners are entitled to, to have the expectations that will be due to the workers who will be retired in the day after tomorrow. That is why all this implementation of the law should be overturned through the tough struggles of the workers themselves and the pensioners, who are already on the way to the fight throughout Greece and the next year, preparing great mobilisations on these issues, but also for the evaluation of all the measures that this includes and which are breaking the lives of the workers and the people.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u138	Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks, Mr Papachristopoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u139	Thank you, Mr President. I am one of the Members who attend almost the most meetings. I think that it is a sacred role for the Member and that is why I have an opinion and an opinion on what has happened over the last two years and a few months that this government has come. In fact, if no one knew anything, and if everything had been done with virginity, how passionate I was listening to the spokesman of the New Democracy and with a lot of passion for the representative of the Democratic Alliance to speak, if I was for the first time in this Chamber, I would say, these people have something good to say. So I want to ask a few questions and say a few things: are they not these two parties, are they others who have been ruling for forty years? Are there others who have reached their parties to owe about 420 million? This has not affected this suffocating economic situation that this government manages? Are these other parties? We saw the mediator establishment owe EUR 1.3 billion in loan and unscrupulously. There are others who even support some objections today, why is this government trying to put order in the mediation landscape? Were there others who closed their eyes at the Stock Exchange, where half the Greeks changed their hands and went to very few? Did he have another government, when the Olympic Games took place and the 5 billion budget reached 40 billion? How does that passion explain, an incredible passion that can actually lure you? Others were the governments who reached the country with what was happening in armaments? I could talk until morning about exactly what happened. In equipment almost the synonym is "misame". I have heard the spokesman for the Democratic Partnership today with a passion to say: 'We have nothing to fear.' I didn't say you had to be afraid or not, but shouldn't there be a reference to what happened then in armaments? I am not in favour of reinsurance, and I believe that all parties also have honest politicians, but should not be cleared up in the political system? And you shouldn't do your self-criticism at some point? Was it another period when the banks gave incredible loans without any guarantee? Another period was for the Lagard list, for the Borgians list, for the Panama Papers? Did you find in these lists one of the people you are giving up today and with a lot of comfort, you call themselves the stalkers, and you call a number of names? Is it another era of ‘SIEMENS’? Are these other times? Because I saw an incredible passion here. I'm coming to my point. Specific things. First of all, I will say the following. I'll keep that. It's a monument of a friendly view. I'll keep it in my record, because it's really a shocking question New Democracy is asking today. I'm surprised and I'm saying, Bravo, guys! I would like to remind you, therefore, that unemployment or not plays a role in relation to insurance? In 2015, we received 27% of unemployment, yes or no? The proportion of retired workers in the world knows that in Europe it is around 4 to 1 or 3 to 1. In Greece how much have we received it? Was it 1 to 1,3-1? Is that a part of the insurance that came later? Do we all admit that if something hadn't happened, in two years the funds would have been finished and no one would have retired? I have heard the spokesman of the New Democracy and have heard him in the committee, saying: “They have not listened to me. In one day a pension!’. I'm glad you only left a hundred and sixty thousand loose ends when you left. Of these, the eighty-five thousand have already been arranged and there are still so many others left and Mr Petropoulos has made a public commitment that it will be over by the end of the year. You know, some people "dead" and spent two or four years retiring. We're not talking about a single one, which started now. Did you forget that in your years all the Greeks lost a quarter of their assets? Where were you then? What exactly did you do? Because I hear it all the time, yes, we admit that nowadays, for the financial adjustment, and for pensions, around EUR 1,800,000 have been lost. We must apologise to the Greek citizens. At the same time, you cost us 44,000,000 euros from 2010 to 2015. Do you ignore it? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I want your tolerance, as others had. Mr. Brutsis spoke 20 minutes. I don't want twenty minutes, two-- three.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u140	Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u141	Thank you. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] I mean the following. I heard SYRIZA's spokesman, Mrs Skoufa, who was not given the time, but I think he was shocking in all the reports she made. We here in this House, I tell you to know, we are not here to get rich. We believe in the private economy in terms, but we are not here to get rich. We have been here for two and a half years. Under conditions of economic suffocation, we worked and we're still working. At the moment we're talking about negotiating. It was a week ago when we heard from the payrollers of the thousand sites that the country has collapsed and that on Monday the Prime Minister will make a dilemma and that the rest of the funds are being disbursed. Didn't you hear? They waited by hand for the trigger not to come the institutions to raise the subject to God by the paid tubers of the rest. This has not been done and more has not been done. Negotiation is continuing. No one triumphed. No one said we've solved everything at the moment. Fight with nails and teeth. Without any re-insurance I say - and I mean it, I believe that in all the parties there are pure politicians - that it is a sacred obligation for all of us to know how the country has arrived here. It is a sacred obligation for politicians to do their self-criticism. We made mistakes, and we made our self-criticism. We weren't born experienced. But one thing we don't do, no matter how much you're trying to remove it from us. The moral advantage, even for half a euro, I tell you, will be maintained by this government. I did not enter this House to get rich, as many of my colleagues do. We're here for a single reason. We know we don't have anyone's support. The intertwiners are many, they are present, they are determined. Maybe that's where we're wrong. We were ignorant of danger. But it's another thing to have an ignorance of danger and dive you in a hurry, criminals, plunder and come shake my hand. You handed over a country bankrupt, gentlemen. That's what we're managing today. Mr Petropoulos has been committed - and I will be the first to resign - that, after the end of 2017, pensions will be given in three months. He was dying, and he never got his pension. Do I have to answer that question? To the hanged house, they don't talk about rope! I say again that this text is going to stick to it, because it really is the most friendly text I have ever seen. It's terribly substantiated, incredibly substantiated. What do you have to do with this, though? None. You are the ones who publish that riches must have them. You reacted, you didn't want to give the allowance a few months ago. It was 618 million from tax evasion, corruption and complexity. I'm telling you, if you don't know. What were we supposed to do? You reacted. Theano Fotio makes a race for seven hundred thousand who go to the dumpsters. That's where you sent them, not us. We're having a tough time. We need real consensus at this time and, above all, remember that we did not become virginity. Self-criticism you are obliged to do, so that your word can be credible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u142	We continue with the Parliamentary Representative of the Union of Centres, Mr Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u143	Thank you, Mr President. Good evening, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I address those who are here, we are four - five people at a timely question, although I expected us to be more, but unfortunately this is how it is nowadays, it is Friday and some are leaving the province and so on - it is true that the issue of today's topical question offers vast ground for criticism, particularly in the current government, what it has to do with the unacceptable management of insurance and pensions. We see that developments are not particularly favourable so far to our country. The lenders are gone. We don't know when they're coming, what they're coming with, what they've gone and so on. We expect the government to inform us. That was right, and my colleague, who knows information from the Qualified Opposition on what they said and did not say. But that's another story. However, we must point out that the New Democracy colleagues may have made an ambitious effort to draft this topical question, but the text personally reminds me of the arsonist, who is struggling and seeking to participate in the investigation and investigation procedures of the firefighting. All you, Mr. Brutsis, have done, as a New Democracy, is "ERGANI" and "ELIOS" - Mr. Brutsis, you have done so in your honor - which the government has come to abolish. You have done nothing else while you were government for pension and insurance, which we are called upon to discuss today. Now we are going to the timely question and to the Governments. Admir the ingenuity below, which is an exclusive inspiration of the "first time left": the combination of tax and insurance in a single package, the obligation to rescue or maintain the system, since, of course, we have been bankrupt. We all understand that, but we all feel that this combination actually works negatively. It really gets sick, and it really vanquishs. All this, of course, applies to unfortunate common mortals. Because for SYRIZA strains and decoys, other data are available. There are bonuses there. If, for example, someone is a SYRIZA clerk in DESCA, the next day he can become a director, on the next day of the day of the General Manager, on the fourth day he can be promoted as directors, on the Thursday day he can promote himself to president and on the sixth day of creation he can enjoy close to the 260,000 euros in a single one, which, based on the information, will be burdened by ordinary taxpayers and consumers of natural gas. We are returning to the topical question. Ladies and gentlemen, the government is not moved by unprecedented unemployment, nor by Brain Drain, the modern migration of our new scientists, people with vision, scientists with doctors, lawyers, engineers, shipyards and all others who have been able to contribute to the regeneration of the country, but who cannot accept confiscation and are practically leaving abroad because of their salaries, the deterioration of their skills and the elimination of the possibilities that can be drawn up at some point here. We as the Central Association have said too many times and have strongly supported our positions. Whether the Greek citizen supports them or not, however, he understands that it is a matter of simple reason and that is why he voted for us, saying the truth and not in the hope. I will say a few examples of our proposals: to suspend directly the pensions of our fellow citizens, who have incomes of more than EUR 3 000 from other sources, which are estimated to be around eighty thousand. To abolish all the pensions of the former Members, not only of Members, but of any kind of heretics. And not since 2012, which they say have been abolished, but also before 2012, that is, all the time. Being a congressman, ladies and gentlemen, it's not a profession, it's a business. You don't get a payroll, you get a payroll. Do you know why it's called compensation? Because you were supposed to be on a job before, you were neglecting yourself from there, and right now you quit your job and you're coming over to work systematically. This employment is distracting you from your profession, so with that logic you get compensation, but no pension. Pensions will normally be taken from the profession you practice and booked through the parliamentary allowance. We also propose that early retirement be abolished. Even today, there are "bugs" in the law and we see pensioners who are fifty years old. I am not talking about soldiers who may have entered this difficult space and serve the country in adverse conditions. I am even talking about civil servants who even now manage and receive early pensions. To merge all pensions into one and top 1,500 euros. It is unacceptable in today's crisis that there should be fellow citizens who receive multiple pensions and pensions of EUR 3 000. Some fellow citizens say to us: "But we have paid contributions, which is why pensions should not be reduced to EUR 1,500." We need to make something clear once and for all in this Chamber, once again. This claim is wrong, for two main reasons: first, those who complain about the so-called contributions are mainly in the public sector. In the private sector we rarely meet people with such high pensions. In 2010, there were still TECH officials who were getting salaries of EUR 6,000 and 7,000 in a time of crisis, in all these adverse conditions that Greek citizens are currently living in. I have submitted to you a great deal of information from the General Secretariat of Incomes of the time and you can see to it that you read it, because we are talking about a regular 'partisan'. But these wages were arbitrarily taken from the parties forces of the governments concerned. You say it's not your fault you've been here for two years. I was on a panel in the morning and I heard them say "Two years we are, we are not to blame, we have received such a state," while the spokesman of the New Democracy said "Two years we have ruled since 2009". Two years you have ruled since 2009, but all these forty years you have all ruled, and you have led us here, it's not just your fault, it's not the SYRIZA government's fault for the last two years, but it's all your fault together! So to come back, we are talking about reservations, not contributions. The state took them from one pocket to the other. The State arbitrarily decided to pay such wages, five times as much as the private sector. He made ruffles, apparently serving "the other side". So, with these great reservations, we come to the point that they also have great pensions. Is it possible to maintain this pathogen even now that people are hungry? We're bankrupt, gentlemen! Do you understand that? And we're still looking at serving our ruffles? Secondly, pensions are not a reward system. It never was. No citizen has a personal pigeon, where he can put in some of the so-called "contributions" and know what pension he'll get at sixty-five. Our system is redistributive. What does that mean? Current members pay the current pensioners. This means that we recognise a social dimension in pensions. It doesn't work like a pigeon, it doesn't ultimately count the amount that someone has paid for contributions, but what politicians has voted on. It is not acceptable, therefore, that there should be a pensioner of EUR 3 000 at one time and a pensioner of EUR 380 at the other, who should even count the money to get a franchise. Is that the state of welfare on the left? Is that what Marx and Engels taught you? Left is to take care of the future of all citizens and not just of your party friends. If these are not done immediately - which we have cost them more than 4 billion a year - no one will be able to retire in the future. We have to cut these fat pensions so that we can have the possibility of retirement for the same people receiving pensions, but also for those who are retired, so that they can get a decent pension. We need to help our economically weakest fellow citizens, those who really need social and welfare, the disabled, the multiples, the single parent families, those who are really trying to survive at the moment and are concerned about their simple survival. Ladies and gentlemen, for us it is clear that the new insurance is a real bomb on the foundations of society. It's a criminal tool of continuous cutbacks and reductions. We are anxiously awaiting the denunciation of the Minister in order to give us the Government's arguments - since Mrs Ahtsioglou is busy - to prove to us the opposite and to respond to all the issues raised by the provocative time-consuming question of Officerial counter-population. At some point the CSCE was mentioned in the Chamber. It was said that some had it and that the CSCE was a pension for some, while the government says that the CSCE is not a pension. Is it a pension, a third pension, the bonus you gave at the end of the year and you blame us for not voting for it? What did you do for the unemployed? Only six hundred thousand retired citizens wanted to serve? Did the unemployed get anything from this allowance? Is that your social welfare? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u144	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, forty students and students and two teachers from the 2nd Lamia High School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We continue with Mr Georgios Amyras, a Parliamentary representative from the River. Here, Mr. Amyras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u145	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will begin my position with a comment on the proposal to set up a pre-review committee. We in Potami say 'all in light', we say yes to the pre-examination for the equipment, yes to the pre-examination - if you want to personalise it - for responsibilities for Yannis Papantoniou, but, if the government really has the guts, say yes to a pre-examination committee and to Yannis Varoufakis, to the shipwreck of the economy, say yes to a pre-inquiry committee and to the Bank of Attica, the pastures, the strange loans, yes to the pre-examination and the Memorandum of Tsipras - Kammenos and the entry conditions of the country into it. Since this debate is a little bound up with what we have heard about the supposed moral advantage of SYRIZA, please, ladies and gentlemen, remove from the moral advantage the twenty-seven grand gift given by the president of the DESFA - a SYRIZA - to himself. Withdraw, please, the four thousand that gave to themselves the executives of DPRK. Remove the consultants' retrospectives that have not yet worked in the Ministries of Mr. Muzala and Papa. You give retrospectively to consultants who have not yet been appointed! It's incomprehensible! Ladies and gentlemen, let me now come to the issue of topical and insurance questions. First of all, why, really, are we talking about insurance today? The problem has not been solved, is it supposed, definitively, by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government and the Katorugalou law? I would remind you of a few recent statements by the Ministers and the Ministries: On 1 November 2016, George Katrugalos, Minister for Labour, then, states: “The insurance has been closed during the first assessment and will not be reopened in the second.”. Now we're still in the first assessment? I don't think so. We are in second place, and the insurance is open 'carabam'! On the same day, 1 November 2016, the Ministry of Finance, in order not to misinterpret anything in relation to the insurance, announces and says: "Opening the insurance back does not exist." So explain why we are talking about insurance today. Since the insured are already commending the government for its achievements - this is 'bulk' for you, Mr Petropoulou, who sees it every day on the streets of Athens - why are pensioners concerned about their earnings and those who are insured for when and on what terms will they retire? What for? What has the current government done on these matters? Listen to what Mr. Katrugalos said on 16 October 2016, the "architect" of the insurance solution: "If we have growth of 2.7% in 2017, as predicted by international organisations, go away, in 2016 and in 2017 as it goes, "the new pensions will then have increases in 2018, while the old ones will increase when the personal difference they incorporate will have been zeroed." In other words, pensioners would see increases, not reductions. In fact, Mr. Katrugalos had anticipated a security test. He said: "Instead of reducing pensions, we can increase taxation a little bit. When you miss the money, either reduce the costs or increase the revenue.’ These are in May 2016. So that was the magical picture, the distorting image that the government was cultivating and that conflicts with the harsh reality. The pensions have not only been permanently secured by the closure of the first assessment, but are on the'main course' of the second evaluation, which Mr Tsakalotos discussed these days in Hilton with the troika. Really, where's Mrs. Ahchioglu? Is he in Hilton today talking to the troika?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u146	I'm here.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u147	Of course you're here. But where is Mrs. Ahchioglu? Didn't she get a hammer when she was the director of Mr. Katrugalo's office, that this type of pension calculation didn't exist, that it was air cut? It's been two years since you've had the hot potato in your hands. But you have made it hotter than the hot water fire at the Thermopylae! You also told us that what was to be done with pension reductions was done. But now we are learning that the government must save 1% of GDP from insurance, that is to say, just to say, by EUR 1.8 billion in the pension bill. The trik of the personal dispute, which the government has devised by the famous Katrugalou law, has not only shielded the pensions, but is the prelude to the forthcoming reductions. In other words, you really did the impossible! You have increased contributions so that pensions are not cut and pensions are cut and contributions remain increased. You voted for a law that was supposed to lead to the rationalisation of the system, and today, nine months later, no one knows what contributions they would pay, nor what amounts they would retire or what would be of interest to him. The absolute question therefore has the signature of SYRIZA - ANEL, the government. This was also understood in the last ignorance of ELSTAT's communication, which pointed out that the pension rate does not exist. There isn't! Instead of applying Law4387, you are now slowly beginning to dismantle it. New pensions cannot come out because ELSTAT fails to calculate the remuneration adjustment with the wage-change index you provided for in the law. That's the law you've given him now. It had to be ten months before ELSTAT told you the same thing and back off. Now tell me, who guarantees that, when the remuneration indicated in the amendment we have seen yesterday, new pension decisions will begin to be adopted? When will it be applied and how many more circulars will you get for this? All in the leg, all in the air. The insurance you are applying is full of irrationalities. So listen. Young or old insured persons double pay contributions for income which has so far been banned. Contributions are calculated with the income of 2015 and you say that when the income of 2016 comes out, we will make a set-off. If, in 2016, the incomes coming out will have smaller contributions, for example, 200 euros a month instead of 400, this difference will not be returned. You say to them 'yes, we got you in advance, but we will reduce your contributions in the coming months'. What's the worst? You calculate pensions without a threshold. Those who left from 1 July 2015 will only receive the pension corresponding to the contributions, amounting to even EUR 160. I have the release of the 'Free press': 'EUR 152' pensions. Have you read it, Mr. Petropoulou? In paragraph (e) and (e) of paragraph (4336), on pages 981 and 982, you say that they will receive up to sixty-seven years of pension from their contributions and for the years that have been insured. I am presenting it for the Minutes and I would ask for an answer from Mr Petropoulos. [[At this point, the Member, George Amyras, presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Does the Katorugalou law provide for the recalculation of remuneration after five years, or am I wrong? You need to speed up the correction. In five years, half the pensioners will have died, wrongly counted on their pensions. I ask you, Mr. Petropoule, will you or will you not give the OGA and the Ministry of Interior a double one? How and with what resources are you paying? I'm waiting for your answer. In other words, just to say it, the insurance is full of distortions, full of problems, which I would say are blowing the funds and the disposal of anyone to work. Private sector wages are constantly falling. We have now come to a great deal of evidence that ten people have to work in order to get a pension paid. Why? Because we have reached some time of work, elastic forms of work and the money through insurance contributions is not filled. In 2015-2016 more than eighty thousand professionals closed their blocks due to new contributions. You know that. Also, over the same two years, instead of cumulative growth of more than 7%, we had a recession, resulting in a loss of income of more than EUR 15 billion, which would give a huge breath and a great margin for the insurance system. This is the price of SYRIZA-ANEL coexistence. Insurance requires changes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u148	Finish, Mr. Amyras.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u149	I shall conclude, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, listen to this. Ireland announced for the third consecutive year its GDP growth by 5.2 points. Ireland, which entered the memoranda after us, but came out before us, has announced that it has reduced its unemployment by 50% over a three-year period. Here, how could we follow the way to salvation? Only if we help the private sector grow, but how? I was in Meteora, in Calabaka, ladies and gentlemen, at an event of the River for alternative tourism. A gentleman comes to me and says: "I have a livestock unit and I want to do farm tourism. I went to the tax office and told them: Since I have a source and I have the nice facilities, I want to bring some tourists to help the area. What should I do?’ And they say to him: ‘Take out the following codes: code for snoring’, listen, ‘code for slitting, code for pruning...’
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u150	When's that?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u151	That was a week ago. They told him in total he'd have to get out - hold on! - four hundred codes to develop agro-tourism. And he says, "Well, this is where everyone else is. Let it go. Will you drown me in bureaucracy?" That's not how the country's going ahead. When, my dear Minister, you hear voices cheering you, I fear that the political problem is the same acid and the insurance problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u152	We would like to thank Mr Amyras, who has completed the cycle of the interventions of the Parliamentary Representatives, and we will begin the cycle of the seconds of the New Democracy MEPs, with Mr Metarakis first. Come on, Mr. Metarakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u153	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the ANEL Parliamentary Representative has just spoken about a time-lag over the last 40 years. I have recently seen in the Chamber that it is a classic inclination of the Members of the Chamber to try to justify their own actions. To talk about the last forty years, it is certainly a philosophical debate. There have certainly been many good things in Greece at the standard of living, security, democracy, prosperity. Of course, however, there were many problems and pathogens. She's not here. What is at present, ladies and gentlemen, is to comment on what the government in question is doing from the day it took over until the day it was delivered. If you want to make comparisons with the past, which I very much welcome, compare with what the previous government has received and what the previous government has handed over. Only then will the Greek people be able to make a proper assessment. Surely the insurance is influenced by many factors. From demographic point of view, a problem to which we must all contribute together to finding a better solution, with the support of new families. That is what I think we will all be able to agree on. Another two factors are in the labour market. The previous government delivered 2.2% of unemployment less than the one it received. You have so far not only in this two-year period, you have reduced unemployment less, but you have reduced it in a qualitatively lesser way, with flexible forms of employment, with very low wages. The previous government also received, according to ELSTAT, the Greek Statistical Office, slightly increased wage levels. As to the comments by the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman, you have asked why we are now commenting on issues that will be up to date in four months, that is what you are saying insight. It's very important that there is. As we have the ability and knowledge, which I hope your ministers will have, in order to read public texts of the institutions, which specifically describe what the institution's strategy for pensions is and to see that the Katrugalos Act, by establishing the personal difference, essentially contributes to achieving the objective of institutions for reducing pensions by 2% of GDP. You spoke of the zero deficit clause in supplementary pensions, which, according to the calculations of the General Accounting Office of the State, would reduce supplementary pensions by 110 million. According to the report by the Katrugalos Act, cumulatively - because you like to call it cumulatively - the reductions in the subsidiary are 908 million. You have accused us of the zero-duty clause on supplementary pensions, which you have instituted under another name. But in the end, with the personal difference, do you know what you have done, ladies and gentlemen? You brought a zero deficit clause to the main pensions. That is why we expect pensions to be reduced from the negotiation that is now taking place. All we have to know is when they will. Today we read that it can also be immediately implemented. I hope the Minister will give us an update on when the pensions will be cut and how much. Don't tell me it's still red lines. Say it if you want, but in the end we will judge you in a few weeks, in a few months, from the outcome of the negotiation. On the subject of the PSI - and I will close with this - read what your budget, Mr Tsakalotos, says, and how the PSI comments on the results that he had in the Greek economy, after the impact on the insurance funds has been taken into account. What is the net effect of the PSI, read Mr. Tsakaloto. Ladies and gentlemen, the insurance bill first ideologically kills Greece that produces, with side effects on the real economy, undeclared work, tax and insurance business and even natural persons. You increase contributions to those who work and at the same time reduce pensions to all Greeks. It took you twenty months to determine how to do it. With regard to the famous Article 33 - and I will close the story with Article 33 and wait for your reply - you said that old pensions would be redefined on the basis of pension payments at current prices. These current prices with which deflation will be calculated? What about the indicator we voted on yesterday? I ask you this for the third time. Are they calculated with another indicator? I ask because, if you do not defer it, I imagine pensions will be reduced much longer. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Finally, I think that all the insurers and workers are experiencing the huge malfunctions of the new body, the huge problems that have arisen in its operation, because basically all this integration took place on the knee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u154	We're continuing with Mr. Panayotopoulos. Here, Mr. Panayotopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u155	Thank you, Mr President. In fact, there is a problem of time, so that we can make a proposal, as you ask so strongly, Minister, because time is not enough to list and record the problems. So much has been accumulated. I will try - and that is why I have asked for my second language - to describe some traces of a proposal, if anything, so that a public debate can finally begin, which should have been started for me for a long time. But you know, here we should first describe the basic, necessary and capable treaty to have sustainable insurance. This is no more than a return to the economy at a positive rate of growth. Can you do that? I say this because, with this image of the economy and the data we have at the moment, even the first two months of 2017 will be in recession. With this picture on the labour market at the moment, as a result of the economic process, and the employment data, which more than six hundred thousand workers are paid less than EUR 400, due to flexible forms of employment, black labour, unemployment rates, etc., insurance is being pushed even further. As Mr Josson Fotilla said, according to some calculations, the new ECA, i.e. the new main insurer until 2055, from this picture on the employment market, is expected to have lost contributions of EUR 65 billion. Is that a safeguard for the viability of the insurance company? Not at all! So, can you bring the economy back to growth orbit? I don't think you can. Do you know why? Because you are ideological enemies of forces who can only restore the economy to a positive development path, which are not other than the forces of the private economy, entrepreneurship, the possibility of attracting investment funds. You can't do it. Even if you do, you will do it with half a heart, with pain of soul, with tears and all that we have at times heard. But this is the only necessary and capable treaty, you know. So that's where each proposal begins. In the meantime, we are wondering about the mistakes that are being made at the moment, which are two. Is it a plan for society to get poorer, for everyone to stand down, for free professionals to be exterminated, so that those who can become customers in the pre-primary allowances and in the pools, because that is how the Left wants its clientele, or does it have more to do with incompetence, such as, for example, what they have to do with the structure of the new ETUC? Where should I start and where should I finish? You just admitted your gave yesterday about how to calculate pensions. You tabled an amendment ten months after the insurance vote. After you legislated, then you came to ask ELSTAT if she can fill out the wage-change index for the calculation. You didn't know! This is a gave and the gappa is due to a failure, not a delusion. But there's also evidence of treason here. Gafa are all about the operational problems, with the EKA, two months after the start of its operation, with the lost elements of the life insurance of two thousand insured. Gafa are the mistakes in the contributory payment process, the errors in the clearing, the double alerts, the omissions in the calculation of contributions and assistance and one-off additional charges, which no one knows when and how and when they are paid will be considered to be due, the lack of OGA...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u156	Mr. Panayotopoulos, you've already reached four minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u157	I'm sorry, Mr. President. As I have said, there are so many problems, which would not be enough of a tritology and tetartology to cover them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u158	But the Rules of Procedure are rules. Time is known in advance. You're old and you know them. So please finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u159	I shall conclude, Mr President. The only thing for sure is that this insurance is not reform. And if we are to start a debate on the new architecture of the system in Greece, we will have to look at other issues, such as, for example, strengthening the capitalising elements. But, all these years, all the political forces and you first, the Leftist forces, whenever this debate was opened and dared to whisper something to strengthen the second and third pillars of the insurance, were extinguished to fire, because here the taboo dictate to speak only of a public redistributive system. Only the government has now exceeded its capabilities. So either we start a debate on a new architecture, introducing new elements, or we will come every three and a little here to see, a memorial trial, the collapse of the system. As long as it is time - and I think we should all see a proposal - let us start this debate. But I'm afraid the damage has already been done. The question is whether or not it is irreparable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u160	Don't be afraid! That's where Petropoulos goes the insurance funds. It's your line!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u161	They're already going to private insurance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u162	Before giving the floor to the next honourable Member, I would like to make a statement to this House. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended from the top Western theory, since they have previously participated in the educational programme for Kapodistrias, organised by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty-nine students and students and three educational attendants from the 3rd General High School of Vyrona. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Vlachos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u163	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have waited after what has been said and I and the other Members have tabled this House's Step on this very serious subject, to get some responsible and complete answers. Instead, we have heard a general remark that the New Democracy is not making any proposals. Minister, you have seen that Mr Brutsis, our parliamentary representative, has made individual proposals. Of course, if you had opened a fruitful dialogue, there would have been more, more proposals. The point is you don't want to hear. And why don't you want to hear? It is not that you do not want to hear the parties, which the parties are not obliged to bring to the end - to bring bills. We didn't criticise SYRIZA here, we criticized the government. And you ask, 'What does the New Democracy say?' The New Democracy does not bring any bills. The bills are brought by the government. One is that. The second is that those who wanted to propose to you had the reception that farmers had the other day: tear gas, MM. Herod Attica is permanently closed from above and from the side. I am not saying that such events have not happened in the past, but in such an outburst and to such an extent I think they are for the first time. So do not talk about dialogue and a lack of proposals. To whom do you want to tell them the suggestions and what do you want to hear? You don't want to hear. Just wait for you to get caught by something we're going to say to stand up to the opposition. Okay, that's what's happened in the past, but, you know, it's not driving anywhere. Why doesn't he drive anywhere? Because the conditions are not the same anymore, because things have changed, because the responsibilities of all of us have been differentiated. And that is what we need to respond to. You announced here a number of figures on the part that I spoke to you about agricultural pensions. You practically didn't say anything. You only numbered us some numbers for who pay less and how many pay the same. And you told us that only six hundred pay more. Now, how does everyone who pays less come to tell you and, indeed, ask you to pay more and all those who pay more to come to us, I will not explain that. I will say, let everyone know if he is paying more or less and complaining or not complaining. You don't have to say it. Everyone knows what their finances are. Secondly, we told you here that while the completion of insurance contributions peaks in 2022, the full pension goes after ten years. You didn't answer anything. We told you that alerts are coming to pay contributions for the first months of 2017. You didn't answer anything. We told you that we had collected insurance contributions for the first and second half of 2016, in the “dead”, in fact, six months of each year. And that is what I want to explain: there is only cultivation in this time. There are no incomes for farmers, for most crops, in the first half of each year. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We have talked to you about a reduction of up to 60% of the pensions of the pensioners who insist on supporting their small family farms. We told you that OGA correspondents have been weakened, they don't know what to do. And you know, people go and ask, they have no information, they can't say anything, and there's absolutely confusion. We also told you that tax refunds instead of going to the irresponsible accounts went to the DU to pay debts, which were arranged over time, for the future. And they took them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u164	Mr. Vlao, please get it completed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u165	I shall conclude, Mr President. The farmers, therefore, went to the correspondents, the correspondents were completely ignorant and there is absolute confusion. You didn't tell us anything about all of this. We have also pointed out that agricultural holdings, agricultural production, have some specific features, which you must take into account, both in insurance and in pension and in the way in which they are employed. How can I tell you? The farmer is an entrepreneur with a homeless business and is exposed to weather phenomena and not only. This needs to be addressed. He can't get into the same fate. I conclude, with the question I have put to you and my first speech: is it in your mind that a reduction in duty in the context of the negotiation that is taking place to close the evaluation? You still haven't answered us. So, by closing down - what is parliamentary control worth if we ask and you simply do not answer? Look, that is why we have asked the Minister to be here as well - having greater responsibility since she succeeded with Mr Katrugalo, the prime minister of this law - to give us the explanation and to assume her responsibilities for both today and tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u166	Mr. Vlavo, you have said with the question you will conclude.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u167	I'm done, Mr. President. Thank you very much. Unfortunately, in the part of our farmers, we did not get the answers that we would like not to hear, but to hear, I imagine, the world, the farmers. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u168	Mr Bukokouros, the last Member of Parliament, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u169	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, in your prototype you have expressed the question of whether I come from a rural area and ask questions about farmers, pensioners and what will be the consequences of the insurance bill. Undersecretary, I come from an area that has been levelled by the insurance, because it has both farmers and bourgeois workers, pensioners and freelance professionals and valuable scientific staff. Your insurance also equates the mountain farmers of Pelion - from Magnesia I come from, study a little bit of your country's parliamentary charter, as a non-parliamentary - levels the farmers of Campus, Almyros and Velestino, who produce most of the agricultural income. The NSA of the homeless workers, who were working in the once existing industries of Volos and indeed, are captured by scientific staff, lawyers, engineers, doctors. That's what Katugalu's insurance law is all about. You asked for a consensus, Mr Secretary, and you spoke of the great things that should unite us. You and your party do not legitimately ask for political consensus, because in the years of 'global' Syrian counter-population you did not show it for a moment. And that was not all, but you poisoned the public speech and the Greek society. And as if you have not learned anything, you yourself come here today and tell us: "You voted for the 2015 law. Why do you exercise parliamentary control?' At the same time, directly or indirectly, you are asking us to vote on the new measures you are now signing. Why, Minister? To come after six months to be smart and tell us "and you voted for them," and it is your own policy? As there is no order of growth, consensus is not required, Mr Secretary. The consensus is inspired when you understand the meaning of parliamentary control and you come here to answer Members' questions and not to oppose opposition to opposition, as you did in your protagonists. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr. SYRIDON LYKOUDIS, takes over the presidential office.]] Minister, I will ask you three questions. For the agricultural sector, said by Mr Vlachos, I would ask you: when will the circular be issued to know what pensioners will do, whether or not they will submit IAC declarations, at the risk of losing any subsidy? You didn't answer anything. Farmers live in the dark. I asked you what would happen to retired farmers who are parents of minors. Will they necessarily grant their property and rights? You didn't say anything. I asked you about the widow's pensions which you have actually collapsed and most of them for nine months have not been granted. Whole families live without a euro, Minister. I asked you what is happening with the Social Welfare you are sending the widow's pension beneficiaries, when after three years they do not complete the fifty-fifth year of age. You have no answer for that. I asked you about the two-speed people with thirty-five years of age for those who did not provide a age limit and put them in a penelthouse for up to seven years, while in others who come out with thirty-five years in their pension you put six months in a penelthouse. Where's the isology? These are three very important categories of insured persons you have not told me a single word and you require consensus. Consensus for what? To make opposition to opposition? Is that why you're asking for a consensus? The consensus is based on specific political attitudes that SYRIZA has not shown in the past, nor is it going to show in the future, Minister. I expect some answers to issues that burn people, Minister. It is not just a question of whether or not they will transfer their property, whether or not they will live for months all without a widow's pension, whether there will be two-speed insured under the same insurance conditions, Minister. Finally, answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u170	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, I'm going to make an intervention to see if we can all make it easier. You have the floor in a row and then Mr Brutsi. Then you will also answer Mr Brutsi as you have the possibility of tritology. Mr. Brutsis, would you now like to speak and answer Mr. Petersburg in total?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u171	I have to listen to the Minister because I'm waiting on the basis of his position.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u172	Good. As you think. Minister, you have the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u173	Thank you, Mr President. The fak news is produced in the Parliament. New term. False news, i.e. that will be reproduced in the well-known media in the evening. You said that Mrs Ahtsoglou is in Hilton and is negotiating - I did not say so - so that everyone would say that we are lying because Mrs Ahtsoglou is not in Hilton. Are you serious? In the same way I hear from people who have never expected them to fall into such inconsistency to repeat what he said a television reporter I said - who I never said - that I am on the road and they applaud me and they cheer me up. Mr. Amyras said so too. If possible, Mr. Defyras!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u174	I'm here.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u175	You came, but I really didn't expect it from you, because I thought you had the courtesy of at least giving what each speaker says. Where did you find this when I said I was cheering me up? When you find it, bring it to me to apologize. There is a process of demolition of any member of the government who articulates a public word, that is to say, a little - very graphic. These are not serious things to be said in the House. Let's say it in the morning shop, those who take on such a role to present...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u176	Don't do that!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u177	Mr. Bukkaro, be serious.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u178	Why do you say that?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u179	Don't talk when I talk. I'm not interrupting you. I have no problem interrupting me for anything serious.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u180	Answer any questions!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u181	Leave them'response'. You won't be doing what I'm going to say. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u182	No, I'm just asking.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u183	You have asked on several occasions and by extending the time each unlimited. I hope, at least, in the ten minutes that I have - Mr President, because you did not preside over, you know that the time of others was multiplier - I can respond to the basics and fundamentals that have been set.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u184	Of course, you will have the tolerance, Mr. Undersecretary. Alas.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u185	In the same sense, false news is what you said about Mrs Fotio, because in reality what you did not want to do is to respond to our political responsibility, to address the urgent problems of the country and the people who live in that country. School meals are not suitable for long-term procedures, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy. The school meal was needed, and indeed immediate and unresponsive need for postponement. In that sense, you cannot say things that, contrary to what we do, you do not want them. Mr. Panayotopoulos is missing. I will keep it for later what I want to say, if it comes and listens to me, because shortly before it proposed that we follow another model in social security. When he comes, I'll tell him more thoroughly what he's asking for. You have been invoked a post of the "Free Press". Indeed, the "Free Press" has occasionally undertaken to make several misleading publications. There's one, too. It is the vote on Law4346 by you and then your own absolute pressure quickly agree to what it included and which speaks of the organic part concerning the minimum pensions when they are paid before the 60th year of age or the sixteenth year of age with forty years of insurance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u186	So we dragged you?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u187	No, you didn't get us into any of this.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u188	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u189	You didn't lure us.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u190	This law was only passed by the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u191	It is something that you yourself, within the meaning of the pacta sunt servanda you say, you leave, while you have voted to do so, departing from the responsibility you supposedly declared yourself at that critical period for saving the country. That's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u192	You're responsible for signing it?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u193	That is disrespectful in Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u194	Suddenly you forget and punish the government because it applies a commitment that you were unbearable to agree so that the country would not fall on the rocks.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u195	Yes, but let the Minister speak. He has a right to complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u196	The truths it hurts, it makes sense for you to react like that. From this point of view, I am doing well and I am telling you, but I would ask that we be more clear about what we are talking about. I said yesterday that there can be no consultation if we say other than others. Let's call the figs and the boats. That's what I said yesterday and that's where we can agree. Maybe not. However, I did not ask for a consensus on our own policy from you who do not want this policy. But if, as I said, you had something to suggest, you might as well have done it. During his debate in plenary, where a majority vote was taken without you, you have proposed nothing more than what the rapporteur, Mr Economou, said. Of course the Chief of New Democracy, Mr. Mitsotakis, has said that before. In fact, there is something that has been repeated today, namely that we need to give priority and space to private insurance. Do you ignore the situation of the people? Do you know that the world has no basic insurance contribution to cover its needs, pension and medical care and recommend that it go to private insurance? You know what Maria Antoinette said about the pancake to the hungry French people. We know where we are and you charge us responsibility because in two years' time we have not overthrown the whole situation that has been created in previous years. You are, of course, talking once again about committing the surpluses of 4% that should be achieved by the country to all the things that this tells you are presenting as positive and good for social security. You talk about forecasts that did not exist. Mr. Loverdos also did so by talking about a law of 2010, n.3863, which the insurance system as a whole had a cash surplus close to 1.5 billion. What would he do, therefore, when things happened during the six-year period until 2015 with such a lack of resources, with such a huge reduction in contributions that were not paid, with an increase in the financial deficit within a limit that was close to and above EUR 6 billion as an annual financial gap that could only be covered by a change in the structure of the social security system itself. Of course, you announced all this on the paper, not in practice applied, pending the evaluation, which was not completed in 2014 to see what you would have done in implementing the commitments that you had already made from the first memorandum, which also, you have never achieved either New Democracy or the PASOK. I have no reason ideologically and politically to apologise for a system bankrupt by its own structure and its own perspective, a system that was built and served by you. I have no reason for the two years of governance to explain why the country has never had a basic computerised service system, because it had this pluralism and bureaucracy. From the time of the junta I remember, still young, after the republication, in my own mind the word "religion" meant a lack of democracy, a lack of the possibility for the citizen to enjoy his rights. And so he stayed in my mind. Create yours is bureaucracy. If there were so many codes you said to make a farm tourism business, would you tell us that we did this?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u197	No, but fix it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u198	We didn't make it, Mr. Amyras. We'll do it. And in the development law, we put it in. Clearly it's what I'm saying. I will therefore not apologise for this distorted, completely counterproductive capitalist system that exists in Greece without businesses, without productive structures, without protected and intended to achieve the development of agricultural production. All of a sudden, you're all crying about the abandoned old farmer and saying that you're going to protect him, because we got him inside the core of social security to have protection and decent pensions. Somehow it should be the debate rather than abandoning me for what we have not yet succeeded in bringing as a result of our own policy. So your promises, Mr Bruce, that the New Democracy will bring about a reduction in contributions, should tell us what exactly. 90% are reduced by farmers' contributions. And I didn't just talk about a reduction. At the lowest point in the calculation of contributions is 90% of farmers. 77% of the professions are at the lowest. Not reduced. Reduced contribution pays 85% of the professions. Where do you think you're going exactly? What kind of promise is that? How much more and where? Anyway, this was necessary because it is an intervention in the country's production structure to enable professionals to pay the levy. And they know that. And luckily, the percentage is too high to laugh at the ridicule that you hold on to me. Because people know what's going on. And to stop at some point this childishness of what they say I applauded or applauded myself. It never happened. I said the evidence. These are the elements of the truth and we needed these interventions in social security, to reduce contributions so that people can pay. You did not keep the positive message I told you. I would expect you, at least, to sit down and say "we'll see if it works to support it". That is the meaning of consensus in the truth, not consensus in politics. We have a completely different political concept, you and I. So as far as contributions are concerned, I told you that we already have a surplus in the month of January, and in February, we also seem to have a surplus when, respectively, we had huge deficits in previous years. Over the last fifteen years, we have had 160 billion financial gaps, deficits, social security, of which 44% were paid for farmers. That is why the previous governments have been led to the decision to abolish the basic pension, which in 2026 is zero. That is what I have to say to the farmers. And with regard to the issue of farmers, who will make their statements, I have reiterated and now repeat, that those farmers who are retired until 31 December 2016 at any time of this kind of rural activity will not have any effect on the calculation of pensions. The rest of the issues will be resolved and I am straight and honest to you. There is no need to speed up unless it has decided what to do with the organisation of its agricultural production, to seek pension. It is a matter that we will resolve in the next period. So we're not hiding from the problems. We made a record clearing in over thirty million codes, and there it was reasonable to find differentiations or data, which completely altered the image of the insured. And we found such mistakes, and we found cases that someone seemed to live while they didn't live. We've found too many such cases. So the failures, which amount to about six thousand cases - I say - do not concern errors that we have made, but wrong data recording from the previous structures. What can we do? And that's why we're to blame again? It's gonna happen, too. There is a solution to this problem, and very soon we will have a clean register that will help the social security system. What pension in one day, Mr. Brutsi? Why didn't you do it? When over a hundred and sixty thousand were expected to be retired, would you retire in one day? There's this one in the bullet of the fantasy. You can say it would happen, because life didn't confirm it, so you can say what you want. Nor deny you can this promise that it would be in a day, because it never happened, but not confirm that you would, because you never did. But, a hundred and sixty thousand pensions didn't give them to you. Let's leave'retirement in one day'. And what increase in rates will you bring? With what information you have believed you will bring results of such a study, invoking a proportionate study, which in 2014 - if I remember well - if not in 2013, you have drawn up and forecast a continuous three-year increase of the age limits from sixty-seven to sixty-nine, then seventy-one and go by saying seventy-three. In the seventy-three years, the man receives pensions and a reduction in pensions. These are the assumptions in the proportionate study that promises a sustainable social security system, which we have ruined. Indeed, that is what the proportional study was saying. We did not respect that and we would not observe it. Stop on the blocks. Forty-four thousand were in 2016, forty-two thousand in 2014. Two thousand are all the difference between the people who rushed to stop the blocks with this wave of disinformation, with this mania that exists to strike a system which concerns all of us. It's not good for lying. In social security, we must be a little more serious and sensitive. It is not, therefore, a dismissal of social security if only for two thousand people, which I have said, if they do not use them, are better off stopping them. Indeed, there's no other reason to keep a block when you're not using it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u199	Minister, let's finish. We're in the seventeen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u200	Will you say anything about widow's pensions?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u201	I'll be done now to continue in my tritology.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u202	Good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u203	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u204	Here you go, Mr. Amyras. What do you want to do, that is, comment?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u205	No, I don't want to comment. I just want to do a...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u206	In order not to continue the dialogue, I say it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u207	No, I'll be mild, you know that, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u208	Here, you have the floor for half a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u209	Dear Minister, the essential thing is: did the pensions of EUR 152 come out for those who left from 1-7-2015 to 12-5-2016 and are under the age of sixty-seven? This is very essential, Minister, why are you dissatisfied? That's the first. Secondly, on staff. Mr Minister, I was here listening to you on the committee rather - when you said: 'I go on the road, I walk in the shops and the shopkeepers go out and tell me...' Do you want me to read it from the Minutes accurately? I'll read it to you right away.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u210	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u211	What can you read, Mr. Amyras? It's okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u212	I've got it ready.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u213	That the Minister has a happy acceptance. That's what he said, he didn't say he was being cheered. And don't overreact.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u214	Watch out. He says: "They got out of their shops, they know very well what is going on and they said: we are saved, we will finally pay contributions." So I, Minister, translate that as a cheer to your face. It's not juicy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u215	All right, Mr. Amyras, it's understood.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u216	Wait a minute, Mr President, I'll be done. Be careful, because Mr. Katrugalos also said his letter, the pensioners burned it when they saw pension cuts. I conclude with this. Don't attack any journalists or media or anything. The truth is that it will be placed on them or on you. And so, tell us the truth, so we can all be handsome and loved.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u217	Yes, thank you, Mr. Amyras.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u218	I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u219	Mr Colleague, you speak out of order. You know that? Complete the intervention.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u220	So I call upon him to get back his talk of seriousness or not, or I return it to him in multiples.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u221	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u222	I'm returning it to him as much as the memoirs are.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u223	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u224	Minister, will you now respond to this to answer again? You are not helping the Bureau. You're not okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u225	Don't I help? What to do.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u226	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u227	First of all, all the pension numbers you say are before the application of Law No.4387. I'm not telling you that you don't know the law. I'm not telling you that you don't know about social security. But the truth is, it's not a result.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u228	To be corrected.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u229	Mr. Amyras, don't you want to know something you don't know?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u230	Sure, I do.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u231	The truth is that these pension effects result - and it has always emerged - in decline. So, what do you think? You think someone who was receiving an invalidity pension with one day's work, why is this provided, was getting the highest pension? There's always been this. So I inform you, and I inform you that these are results...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u232	There's no lower one anymore.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u233	Why don't you let me tell you?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u234	I'm just helping you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u235	Don't help me so much! Listen to what I'm telling you to understand, because you don't know it, you know other things. You don't know that. So listen. The figures you say are the result of provisions arising from Law No.4387 that have always been differentiated. Finally, you will allow me, when someone is smuggling against anyone, I am the first, whoever he is, to defend him. Much more myself, because it cannot be in the unavoidable criticism of people with a surnamed journalist who say to me: "The insured listened to the Undersecretary saying that he is walking in the streets and applauding him." And there are other people repeating this. That's misery.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u236	Okay, that's an exaggeration. It's not cannibalism, Minister. Don't exaggerate yourself.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u237	It's misery conscientious.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u238	Mr President, I would like to speak for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u239	Mr. Comrade, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u240	Wait a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u241	Every intervention gives rise to an answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u242	We're having a conversation, that's all. Only one clarification will I ask, Minister. Do these pensions arise - tips, so to speak - the temporary up to sixty-seven years from subparagraphs e3 and e3 of L.4336 pages 983...?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u243	Yes, sir. It will respond to your tritology, Minister. He won't answer now. Mr. Brutsi, you have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u244	Ladies and gentlemen, as the New Democracy's timely question is over, the people who have followed it and will see it by the end of the day are finally wondering what the government has said today in all these objections, in all these issues that have been raised. The answer is: nothing. He hid once more behind lies, behind misinformation. And because the Minister likes to talk cleanly, as he says, I want to say a few things about which he may respond to his tritology, because in his denture of all the things that were put forward for both widows' pensions and so many matters for farmers he did not say anything. First of all, Mr Minister, because you referred to the question of evaluation which has not been closed, I would remind you of the responsibility you are saying, that the previous Samara government has closed down four evaluations and we were in the last, fifth one. On the contrary, in Stepa, you have a man who was on the negotiating assessment table and December 2014. And I remember that in their hands - the troika - they were holding the statements of the current Prime Minister, your Chief, who said: 'Do not think about closing the review'. This is called national moderation, national irresponsibility, reduced patriotism. That's who you were! And of course you have led the country to elections with the known results. So don't invoke why the evaluation didn't close. You blocked it, you dropped the Samara government, you led the economy to the rocks, you brought the 10 billion dollars, the unjust and unnecessarily third memorial to reductions in insurance. It is 3.5 billion, the reductions that run and 6.5 billion are the personal difference for young pensioners when their insurance cycles are closed. Are you telling me and criticising me, because I referred to SYRIZA's direct assignments and morals? In fact, the answer you gave me for Mrs Fotio's 800,000, Minister, do you know where she refers? To hide SYRIZA by using the sensitivity of the vulnerable social group of children. The 800 grand, of course, should have been given, but by a tender procedure provided for by the state competitions and since it was planned to give the sandwiches and the food to the children, you could have planned it more ahead and done with a regular tender. Not to bring it to Parliament at the last minute and to resign the party MPs and say: how do we give the children food at the last minute? So direct assignment. That's the logic you have. I, the 800 grand of the direct assignment, denounced the procedure you followed, which you could have avoided. On the rest of the matter, Minister, on liability and consistency, I will again invoke something that you will now hear. So listen to today's New Democracy Parliamentary spokesman for the world, to the citizens, to the taxpayers, to the insured, to the unemployed. This is the position of the New Democracy. Question: Should citizens be consistent with their obligations? Answer: of course. We all have to be consistent, pay our insurance contributions, our taxes. And I say it today that we're opposition. I'm turning the time back. I told you that I was coming down from the office and watching the poster with your signature - not yours, of the SYRIZA - cause and foresee citizens and urge them not to pay. This is our difference, the patriotic and the national, which you have not felt. Now that you've become government, now you're starting to smack some things, but because you're gonna be opposition - and you're gonna be very soon - hold those for you not to see you again in the square across the street. You'll be very few. Nor does it take you to say to the world 'do not pay'. You're being taken by the world.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u245	This is gonna be too late.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u246	I shall therefore go to the other issues to which you have referred and which are of value. I raised the question of the national gave you have raised. And you referred to the analogy study. I didn't sign it, it doesn't have my signature. It has the signature of the Troika, the institutions, the Ageing Working Group, the European Commission, which showed that the insurance was fulfilling the sustainability conditions, based on the 2010 Loverdos Act, was completed for my day and that all Europe had agreed, with the exception of 310 million e-mail Hardouvels. You blew it up and brought the unnecessarily third memorandum, with the effects of 10 billion in insurance, these outrageous reductions in pensions, which you did not need. In fact, you've transferred to the insurance company the Baroufakis deficits of your Minister of Finance. And the rest of you said about morality. You're not telling me, did I mention anything to you, Minister, about the gold one? What did you say about that? Did you say about the Golden one-off when you talked about New Democracy's morality? What did you do about it? You're State Secretary for Social Security. Shouldn't you today table an amendment and cut off this Golden one-off of your own human being? Can't you see there's a financial party at all levels? Yesterday Europe came out and denounced Mr Muzala and the increases of the people he has in his office, but that the resources are also being lost. They've come to Greece for 800 million for immigration and they're gone. Won't the government wonder where this money is going? Don't you have an answer to that? And for the two hundred and forty-three singles, which I submitted to you the Captain's letter and decision, which says that 'I decide who will make a single decision', will you throw him out today? Will you initiate a process or close the process today and hide behind these issues again? In short, I think you are exposed irreparablely. Even on the subject of mathematics, what you're doing today is unbelievable. You filed a mathematical type to find a way to pay pensions. In fact, you're on three counts of retired people. Those who are before 12-5-2016, who will have a certain way of awarding pensions, those who will be from 12-5-2016 to 31-12-2020, who will have the formula at the rate of change of the Timarith and others from 1-1-2021, who will be with the change of wages. What's the matter with everything? What is the case and how will you do the recalculation of pensions set by Mr Metarakis? You didn't answer that either. So it's all rough. It's all in the air. So don't say about these things. And I close with the last one, which I also consider to be very serious, because I told you and you went through this too. You have drunken and committed yourself to abolishing the personal difference and the current pensioners. All the publications, which are currently in existence, now prove and confirm that the government has committed itself and has launched the reduction of the current pensioners, through personal differences and the question raised is one: by what process, what amount and when. That is where conflict is taking place and the procedure is because I think that you have also closed it. In short, Minister, you screwed up. Today the Greek people, the retired, the unemployed, the workers pay the price of a government, which came to power in lies, misled the Greek people. It was the wave of populism, which across from this Chamber was in the squares, under the name and the alias of "recognised citizens". And they were all hiding, and they had one single goal, the conquest of power. You took her and screwed up. This is what the Greek people are paying today. But you should know that you've been hammered. Social wrath has now been extinguished, it is diffuse. Even in the reduction of contributions, which you invoke and rejoice, in fact, with a portion of the insured, freelance professionals, not engineers, doctors and lawyers, they have a lower price for payment. There is, however, a matter here which does not appear and which we do not understand. It is the so-called "snatch" of poverty. Because on the other side of the equation there is 25% less pension. You don't put the money in your pocket. They reduce 25%, mid-weight, pensions, and you are actually sending a message to everyone, to be content, to be poorer than society, to divide society and to send a message that anything creative, those who have achieved their lives, are the ones who will pay the extermination 37%, we have to get them down. But when they come down, too, to know those who think that they will pay less, to the 7,000 euros - you cultivate vision, cultivate the ideals, someone who is poor with 7,000 and say 'You must be satisfied' - that the logic of equation and poverty down is not a vision, it is a trap for society. It's a left-wing concept, it's a Venezuelan concept, in which we're ideologically opposed. We want the Greek creatives, we want their vision to look up, to see creation, to create, to build, to prosper. You are enemies of this concept. You want the man down, low, in the logic of equation and poverty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u247	The Minister has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u248	When I was talking about dedication to the truth, I thought we would all have better results in the parliamentary work that we could produce, what we can reach agreement and what we disagree first. To keep saying things that do not apply does not help the debate. It does not help the debate because things are much more difficult than anyone can imagine if we do not take immediate action in all areas and quickly. In the two years of our government, we've changed a lot. We reduced unemployment to 23% of the 27% that it was. We have an improvement in indicators. We have a prospect of better growth in the economy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u249	Four o'clock, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u250	The four hours you say, dear sir, are five hundred thousand people. It increased the share of parttime work from 2013 to 2014 by a very large percentage. I had evidence. Unfortunately...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u251	You lost it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u252	No, I didn't miss it. Let me get it now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u253	It's 54% this year, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u254	We have had a huge increase in part-time employment since 2013 in 2014, according to the figures of "ERGANI". So look at this and don't talk about increasing part-time now. We do have five hundred thousand jobs in part-time employment. But that is not the dominant situation. I will see what you will do in the European People's Party and as a New Democracy in the debate that has been opened in Europe - and we support - for a minimum European wage in order to secure labour rights, for the reintroduction of collective labour agreements in Greece. You couldn't even find anything in the fight we're giving to come back. What do you suddenly care about something you have created as a catastrophic problem for the country? Not only did you not prevent it, but you brought it in. What exactly are you talking about? You said it was a national reduction of the Prime Minister, because he said that we did not agree with the agreements you were preparing for the memorandum.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u255	Don't pay, he said. He did not say, 'We do not agree'.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u256	You said that this is why the evaluation was not closed and we went to elections. Samaras, in other words, and your government had positive solutions for the country, would bring better results for the people and did not dare to bring them down - and get down, down, and elections - because Tsipras said, "Don't bring them." But are there serious things to say? If the news was so good, you'd bring it. But because they were disastrous about the economy and about the prospect, you have not dared to bring them and you have been looking for pretexts, such as the early election of the President of the Republic from this House to escape from a responsibility and to say what you are saying. The Director of the Public Service Welfare Fund said what the statute says, that he has responsibility. I don't cover him, I don't have any reason to cover him. I have nothing to do with him. I'm not the one who chose him anyway.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u257	You're his chief of staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u258	Leave it now, you've got a situation. But I think it makes sense to say...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u259	Take the single ones on party criteria?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u260	Listen, Mr. Brutsi, there's something very reasonable about man.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u261	I never interrupt you. But, you say, "did you get a subject"? Break the line of the single ones and get it party friends?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u262	Yeah, you found a situation. They're not party friends. All the single members of the Civil Service Welfare Fund will be awarded by June 2017.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u263	Get the file details to the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u264	In other words, pensions were given in turn, ladies and gentlemen, not by intervention from parliamentary offices.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u265	So there was no other reason. There was a provision of law and old law of yours, which said about exceptional cases, which are necessary...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u266	Never! No, not even a single one. A hundred thousand just gave, not even one was the case with what you're saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u267	I have that feeling, I'll see it. If the other one was dying, didn't you prioritise him?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u268	No, nothing.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u269	Minister, there is no free debate. The debate is under the Rules of Procedure. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u270	You don't care. You have not said anything about widow's pensions, not a single word, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u271	Mr. Buquarre, please help the Bureau. Minister, can you continue without answering?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u272	You are rejoicing, Mr. Brutsi, that you were giving it up until August 2013. From August 2013 to January 2015, it is about a year and a half. Did you even give a single one? You didn't give us and you blame us for not giving any single ones for about a year and a half. And since August 2016, we have been giving, that is, a period actually equal, because we have changed the law so that we can give it. That's all we needed to do. The posters, "I don't pay", which is a collective motif, which still exists, if I'm not mistaken, is SYRIZA? The "I don't pay - I don't pay" pay for it in our government?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u273	SYRIZA's posters.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u274	What was Mrs. Valvanie? Was it a KIC?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u275	And anyway, the situation of the economy has arisen from the posters of the citizens who were actually called upon to consent to an excessive and unfair burden on your policy and who are responding?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u276	Are you going on with this? Do you continue as Minister to say they don't pay?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u277	Mr. Brutsi, please. Is it possible to interrupt the Minister's speech in this way?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u278	Two minutes, Mr. President. We're living historical times. The Minister now said not to pay. Mr. President, are we playing with the country? Is the Minister coming out and saying they don't pay for the country, for Greece? Is that possible? Is that a government? I'm in the Opposition, and I say they all pay, and the Minister says they don't pay?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u279	Mr. Brutsi, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u280	I said about the citizens' initiatives. Leave the provocorn now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u281	Mr. Brutsi, sit down, please! Every speech and every political factor is judged by what he says.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u282	Not like the other one who goes out and says "Buy Greece" to the Germans, the Vice President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u283	Your Honor, are you intervening with me to make this a nice festival?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u284	I repeat exactly what I said, because I started with what should not be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u285	You justified those who don't pay. That's what you said. Take it back. At least fix it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u286	Leave the fairy tales now. Can you say that in front of me? My position is recorded in the Minutes. I said that citizens' initiatives that reacted to what they considered to be an exaggerated one cannot be needed for us. And for the citizens' initiatives, which you are now setting up, for a number of farmers who say 'we will break them all' and which you are taking under the umbrella of your protection, they have all good!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u287	We convicted it by announcement.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u288	So I said that citizens may have the events that democracy predicts to be able to have and have. So let the parade of what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u289	What was the communication for farmers? Did you read it? You're distorting reality.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u290	Minister, finish because you have eight minutes to talk. Please, it's your tritology. We've said everything. Finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u291	Mr President, I wish I could speak for eight minutes. The holidays are at least half my time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u292	I know, but it's tritology too. We've been through it all.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u293	Okay, you'll protect me from talking. What am I supposed to do? I didn't say it all and I'll avoid too much to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u294	I'll see you at a next conversation, that's okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u295	You didn't say a word about widow's pensions. That's too bad!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u296	There's a vegetarian today. Why, Mr. Comrade? What exactly are you doing?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u297	The President will give me time to tell you everything.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u298	It's a sensitive social group waiting to hear, growing, falling, that doesn't have 1 euro.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u299	Aren't you ashamed? Are you sensitive? Are you sensitive and I'm unconscious?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u300	Minister, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u301	For 2016, the annual contributions for the OGA from the insured were about 405 million. The state budget put 3 billion. For the Free Professional Insurance Agency, the collection of contributions was about EUR 1,100,000, and for the EBRD, independent professionals, EUR 835 million, of which EUR 400 million were paid by the waged engineers, doctors and lawyers. What do you think you'll do exactly? You want to make three funds to solve what problem? The deficits and the resources you have deprived of by your own decisions? You may not know them, Mr Boukoro, but Mr Brutsi certainly knows them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u302	We know it's us from the FYROM who put up the reserves and you know it too!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u303	Since you know about it, EUR 230 million of resources of the Legal Fund in 2009, zero in 2015, EUR 81 million of resources for the Engineering Fund, zero in 2015, deficits in the Health Insurance Pension Fund of EUR 60 million, in the Legal Fund of EUR 75 million deficits, in the TSMEF EUR 30 million deficits and in the OAU, of course, deficits. So what would you do? Would you hold a fund with deficits? Do what exactly? What is it that you propose in your own'soft' proposal on social security?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u304	Minister, please, we're in ten minutes. You've spoken twice a year. Please complete it too!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u305	I'll finish. I would like to see a fairer approach, Mr President, but that's all right.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u306	Excuse me, is this treatment unjust? Instead of five minutes, you've been talking eleven and you're saying you're being treated unfairly?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u307	Okay, the holidays were too many, and the multiple speaking time was cumulatively much greater than the one you give me. But I accept it, I fully respect your role and your position, and I will end this. 65% of engineers, doctors and lawyers pay the minimum insurance contribution. Be well!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u308	Anything on widow's pensions? You underestimate an entire social group!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u309	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that they are attending our meeting from the top Western theatres, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, thirty-four students and students and two teachers from the 2nd Lamia High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Let us inform you that you're here at the end of the meeting. The debate on Question No 12/10/20-2-2017 is closed on the subject: "Workers and pensioners experience every day the gaps and burdens of the new insurance policy". Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-10-S1-commons.u310	With the consent of the House at 14.50 minutes the sitting on Monday, March 13, 2017, at 18.00, on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
