ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-17-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Before entering the agenda, I would like to make the following announcement: The Standing Committee on Economic Affairs presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: "Furthermore, the Memorandum of Understanding and the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the United States of America on the improvement of international tax compliance and the application of the Tax Compliance Act (FATCA) and the Authority Agreement and implementing provisions". Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all the draft law of the Ministry of Environment and Energy: 'Control and protection of the structured environment'. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 11 October 2017 to discuss the draft law in two meetings, one on principle, articles and amendments. I would like to inform you that four ministerial amendments have been tabled. As the Secretary of Government told me, there will be no more. One has already been incorporated into the bill. Of the remaining three, the Minister present, Mr Stathakis, will support them. The last amendment with general number 1297 will come during the debate tonight, Mr Spirtzis, and I will give him the floor for five minutes to present and support the amendment. Fourteen Members of Parliament have also been tabled. During the debate, today or tomorrow morning, the Minister will also inform the Members' amendments. We don't define when we're gonna finish tonight. Let's start with the two rapporteurs. There's gonna be an electronic recording. Let us see how many colleagues will be enrolled and then we will all have a consultation together. Since there are not too many, - around thirty, thirty-five - we can tonight stop at a reasonable time around 23.00 and continue tomorrow morning. But we will decide on this after the two rapporteurs are finished and see how many colleagues have been registered. On the principle of what I said, ladies and gentlemen, do you agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-17-S1-commons.u2	So we all agree. So we begin, and I call on the SYRIZA rapporteur, Mrs Evangelia Karakosta, to the Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-17-S1-commons.u3	Good evening to everyone and everyone who is here today, but also to all the citizens who are particularly interested in this bill and who really want to hear the proposals. And I say to the citizens who want to hear from us, because this is a bill that does not concern a certain category of people, but it really concerns the entire Greek people. So, starting with the debate to say that the world in general at this time when we were discussing this bill, they were putting the title 'Spain Act'. I would like to say that this is really a serious mistake, because this bill has a chapter on arbitrary matters. In other words, it aims to intervene in the whole area by institutionalising procedures, rules and systems that record existing structured and unstructured surfaces. They are forming the information platforms of these surfaces transparently, so that we can remove all the distortions that have so far shaped unregulated land fragmentation by private individuals, unregulated construction with uncontrolled land uses and excessive, of course, arbitrary use. It is clear in this state that the space has not been designed for many years and the real values of land have therefore not been established, the exploitation by the scientists to shape conditions of immunity. The efforts that have been made so far, with the top of Antonis Tritsis, have always been a start to design the existing arbitrary construction and arbitrary partition without expanding into unstructured sections. Also on the part of the state through the multiple laws on legalising arbitrary law, the misconception of immunity in society has been erroneous. In particular, the lack of planning of residential needs, in order to make timely extensions of settlements, town plans and new residential complexes in developing areas, gave private interests the opportunity to design without State supervision and to create uncontrolled land values. The intention of this government, taking into account, of course, what exists, is to be able to solve the overall link between planning in space. In this direction, by making use of the experience of implementing or not the previous legislation, we consider it right and we establish mechanisms for permanent and overall control to detect arbitrary structures. Activate the electronic identity of a building for the purpose of controlling them during each period of their lives by registering them in the electronic register and will issue a certificate of completeness with a unique number linked to the number of the National Register. At the same time we create the city's urban identity, where each municipality registers data for its public or infrastructural sites. The aim is to create an integrated file that will gradually be linked to the Land register, forest maps, hayals, watercourses, as well as an archaeological register. Having all of these elements and the general development planning of the country, we can really deal with the space. Innovative and particularly important is the fact that for the first time the institution of social control is introduced by means of provisions which provide for the setting up of a monitoring board for the structured environment that manages representatives of all levels of local government, social and scientific bodies. Thus, socially controlled and participatory operation is being achieved continuously improving the procedures for protecting this environment. In the service of urban planning, we also trigger, taking into account the Constitution, the transfer of the building factor. The RIS shall be established by the Bank of Building Rights and Commonwealths as a digital application in which transfer titles of a builder and an environmental balance contribution are entered, with a view to the recovery and management of the building rights. These rights arise from the matching of transferable builder securities with environmental balance contribution securities resulting from spatial and environmental arrangements. Following urban studies, the rate bands as well as the coefficient-weighted areas shall be defined to guide the transfer of the building coefficient and to create the environmental compensation. The environmental balance is implemented by the Green Fund and financed by 50% of all the arbitrary fines. The remaining 25%+25% are given to the first and second degrees of self-government for the respective responsibilities. In the service of all I mentioned earlier, a new address is being created to three degrees. The Structural Environment, Implementation and Spatial Planning Control Directorate, what we will call an observation centre, which draws up annual reports, makes proposals to the Minister for the Environment and supervises the Green Fund. Regional and local observatories, which identify with coordinated action and control mechanisms all delays, pathogens and malfunctions in urban planning, are also created. In addition, new collective bodies are set up in order to deal with cases accumulation, second-level decisions are also being made and interventions are being made, corrections to arbitrary construction, aesthetic integration and harmonisation of buildings in the natural environment. The Ministry of the Environment is also set up as a Central Accessibility Committee, which recommends to the Minister special arrangements, Urban and Dispute Councils, the so-called SYPOTES, which examine second-hand actions, seven-member Central Council for Urban Issues and Disputes, which solves interpretative questions of urban legislation, etc., the Central Council for Architecture, the Central Council for Architecture of the Aegean, the Central Council for Architecture of Macedonia - Thrace. The Regional Architecture Board, a five-member Board of Appeal for arbitrary appeals, a Building Control Directorate, a Regional Accessibility Committee and the Regional Councils for Urban and Dispute Affairs are now appointed in the region. It is important that, with this new structure, many services are both involved in partnership and cooperation, taking advantage of their rich experience, in order to create a database from which the citizen can obtain fully transparent information on building. It is extremely important and innovative that the inspection services, which are the observatorys, which I have previously developed, are separated from the licensing services that will be used by the PSOs. Building permits are analysed in the draft law on how they are to be issued with a view to simplifying and minimising their time of issue. Three categories of licences are proposed. Categories 1 and 2 for which checks are required by the DSOs on the conditions of the law and on the preventive control of the studies accompanying the file. Category 3 is for licenses where there is legal certainty and in such cases building permits are issued automatically after electronic submission of the file. Small-scale operations and operations that do not require authorisation are also specified. The pre-approval procedure is introduced for the first time for the safety of the scholars, which in most cases is optional. Pre-approval shall also establish the conditions for construction within the time of its validity. In order to save time and to ensure the smooth development of the construction work, this is envisaged - the first time - that the work that goes beyond the licence and is allowed by the town planning provisions is notified to the Ministry of Transport and a review licence is issued. It is an excellent place to facilitate citizens that an automatic search by HSY is also introduced through a single online platform for interconnecting public entities, such as property titles, tariffs, archaeological register, radar demarcations and cavalry definitions. In the face of arbitrary construction, as I have said before, new administrative and control authorities are being created. Always for the arbitrary date milestone for any arbitrary settlement remains 28-7-2011. The prohibitions on the placing of arbitrary land in hays, forests, streams, archaeological sites, common areas and others also remain applicable. In order to combat arbitrary construction, the first time, an online digital platform of orthofills is established and the electronic recording of the whole process from detection to demolition of each arbitrary platform is institutionalised. The removal of the arbitrary nature and the reintroduction to the legality of the building require prior studies to guarantee that the building is safe, functional, aesthetically integrated into the environment, meets the requirements of urban planning. In other words, arbitrary violations of town planning are separated where only administrative sanctions are imposed. The old arbitrary provision is made for a series of arrangements to facilitate integration, for two years, to increase the instalments of the fine from 60 to 100, the social criteria are extended by suspending the payment of instalments to long-term unemployed beneficiaries of solidarity allowance and other such groups. The arbitrary fines built between 1983 and 1993 are reduced, arbitraryly in areas outside the plan, arbitrary underground, skates, sophites, etc. Fines are increased, however, in environmentally sensitive areas. For the arbitrary manufactured after 28-7-2011 no tolerance is allowed. A direct demolition is provided by the Observatory for arbitrarily detected by the Observatory from the construction phase. For the buildings identified after being erected, the fine of building from 30% that is today is launched at 100% of the objective value of the building. The conservation fines for as long as they are maintained until they are demolished are also launched from 5% to 50%. However, those who demolish at their own expense arbitrary or comply with the town planning provisions shall be given the opportunity to delete the fine in full. This bill also contains amendments to certain laws concerning RIS responsibilities, the Ministry of Environment and Energy. For example, the possibility for the Deposit and Loans Fund to borrow the Green Fund, which may conclude contracts with public bodies, is being given. Central heating issues are resolved, where there is certainly an improvement in the energy efficiency of buildings. Professional farmers who have not submitted a declaration of their status for 2016 shall be allowed to submit it within two months of publication of this Regulation. Energy issues of small hydroelectric and biomass plants, biogas, bioliquids for special categories shall be resolved. By the end of 2019 PPC may support the operation of the DEDDIE, providing the workers' health and safety services and other support services. Adequacy issues of the existing municipal cemeteries are resolved and allow them to complete constructions without requiring the modification of the approved orbital plan. The Municipality of Athens is provided to build an incineration centre of the dead in the region of olive grove. It is facilitated to relocate businesses to a non-performing property plan of the municipalities with a population of up to 100 000 and this figure is reduced to thirty. The problem of issuing the building near watermelon is being tackled. Geological fitness studies may be approved by the services of the decentralised administration. By decision of the Minister for the Environment and Energy, the settlement of Angers of the Municipality of Amyntheos of Florinas is exonerated due to damage caused by landslides caused by the mine of the lignite center of PPC. Finally, we hope with this bill - and, of course, beyond this bill - that a civil society will be formed in the future when it comes to the need to implement the rules of law for the structured environment. The continuous and comprehensive control of this and, of course, the expeditious planning of the State is an unequivocal and concrete process, as it is necessary to ensure the public and personal interest of those in charge of the principle of sustainability. Hopefully for the immediate implementation of all the provisions and given the Minister's commitment to resolve all ministerial decisions within six months, I hope and hope that this bill will give a different landscape in the area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-17-S1-commons.u4	The rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Konstantinos Katsafadas, has the floor. Here, Mr. Katsafandou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-17-S1-commons.u5	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government confirms to every bill the sluggishness but also the special way in which it legislates, which, unfortunately, we have not been able to avoid. So you have tabled a bill that, in fact, even you yourself do not have convincing arguments for the necessity of its statement. If the new and retreat are to reduce fines, this matter could have been settled by tabling a simple amendment. If you wish, Minister, to contribute positively to the process of issuing permits for building and resolving the problem of arbitrary construction, you had nothing but to resolve technical issues and proceed to some corrective and up-to-date interventions in Laws 3843/2010, 4014/2011, 4030/2011, 4178/2013, which together created a single framework for arrangements on all these issues. Before that, of course, it was necessary not to undermine what you found ready and, above all, not to be indifferent to the activation of the electronic identity of buildings, the framework for which you did not act. Minister, the last law of 4178/2013 was an integrated and above all effective institutional intervention to solve the problem of arbitrary construction. I do not need to remind you that it was the only law that had no constitutional problems. I would like to stress here, because I do not know, how sure you are that the law we are discussing today will not be facing any problems in the Council of State? When Mr Spirtzi came to him, the criticism he was being criticised at that time was that it was a law with collective logic. Evidently the fines and instalments contained in your law do not have collective logic because they are fines of SYRIZA. So we had a law, ladies and gentlemen, which was working. It was working in practice and not in the theory. They declared more than one million arbitrarily, fines amounting to EUR 3.6 billion were paid close to 2 billion, and also provided for a large number of instalments to be paid, because the instalments are not your discovery. But what happened? When you took over the country's rulership you sent the message that you would change the law. There was a problem on the market automatically. Well, obviously not indifferent to you. The statements on arbitrary settlement have been reduced, but also collectivity. And today you are bringing new regulations on arbitrary settlement, creating a major issue of unequal and unfair treatment for those who have joined the previous law and paid their fines, because very simply those who joined the previous law on the same urban infringements have paid more than those that will be included in the regulations of the new law that we are debating today. So for us, ladies and gentlemen, it is a question of equality and justice. We therefore urgently call for the principle of equal treatment to be restored and we shall insist on that. We are proposing for all those who are affected by this injustice to offset their difference with other tax burdens, such as HISBIA, because in the end, ladies and gentlemen, it is also a matter of State and state credibility. The Minister and many colleagues in the committees referred to the establishment of the Building Observatory as a positive intervention. We will accept that there are positive elements in this, Minister. But in the way that you bring the organizational structure of the observatory, a multi-accidental bureaucratic model is created, which can neither be functional, but much more cannot be effective. How could it be when, beyond the Directorate-General for Observation, the Ministry is set up at the same time, Regional Observatory and Building Control Directorates are set up, when you know very well that the regions are under-represented? You create three entities for arbitrary construction that are in turn the Ministry, the region and the regional unit. You are also creating a new Structural Environment Monitoring Council in each region. In other words, we have a dysfunctional and bureaucratic pattern that will in principle be effective in dealing with and limiting arbitrary construction. But let us also go to the changes made by the bill to the collective control bodies of the structured environment, to the architectural councils. You know, it was a question of improving their effectiveness and efficiency where there were real problems. And that is what all engineers, citizens and institutions know first and foremost, as do the Chamber of Technical Affairs. But no one, unfortunately you did not listen. All you were interested in was changing the way they were formed and creating new councils, i.e. returning to the past, returning to the shape of the PSC of the past with primary and secondary bodies that intensified bureaucracy, and that is why they were abolished. Everyone remembers the different opinions on the same subject of two institutions, which led to confusion and delays. In fact, the level of public administration's involvement in the process is increased, whether it is building permits or urban solutions, by creating this complex pyramid of councils and committees. However, it is clear that the authors of the bill, by choosing to set up new committees with overlapping and bureaucratic structures, forget an important aspect: that there will be a question of their staffing and the setting up of these committees, especially in the region for the simple reason that there are not so many engineers, while their participation will not be paid. So in the event that there is a failure to form, ladies and gentlemen, we all understand who will pay this suffering. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government of thirty-two months later cannot realise that the legislative work, in order to have a substantial and useful character for the functioning of the state and for the citizen, should be governed by clarity, a simplified regulatory framework and efficiency, particularly in matters relating to the framework of construction, the adoption and control of building licences, issues which have troubled citizens in the past, but also those who want to go ahead with investment and economic activities. With Law 4030, but also in 4178, significant steps had been taken towards simplifying procedures. There was the stage of the construction approval, it ensured the citizens' commitment and safeguarding of the essential elements of the property, which were linked to the public interest. What's that evidence? It is the building factor, coverage, volume, height, building contour and much more. To date, with the deposit of a topographical diagram, the structure chart of the architectural study and in some cases the approvals of the architecture boards or other services were issued. In other words, there was, on a case-by-case basis, the submission of supporting documents and approvals by other stakeholders for reasons of users of commercial morals, good functioning of the administration, but also for the overall safety of investments, for which the requirements for authorisations by other operators required time. In the second phase of the construction licence, the remaining studies are compiled and submitted under the responsibility of the engineer without any additional time required for the control of the public service, except for the completeness check. Now you come and you're removing all this. Remove construction approval and reclaim the requirement to submit all studies for the issuing of the building licence, as well as the corresponding control of all supporting documents. On an entirely practical level this means that with the provisions you bring, the building permit for Category 1 buildings will take one month and for Category 2 buildings it will take two months. And until now, for a municipal leave, construction approval took five working days and two permits. The Government invokes the fact that, for category 3, that is, for buildings within a plan of up to 1,000 square meters using a special building and up to 2,000 square meters using housing, the permits will be issued automatically by submitting the necessary supporting documents. Only if you accompanyingly carry a provision that provides that they will be subject to a later mandatory sample check in the biennial. This means that the citizen or the investor is not guaranteed, since it will always be under the supervision of controls which may cause problems. So who will invest, ladies and gentlemen, in these circumstances? Who will start any construction, when instead of simplifying procedures, is complicated, and when they are under threat of checks or appeals permanently? Of course, as long as you're government, we're not going to see investments, as we understand. But there is another parameter. Once they are not available to everyone in a specific and structured way of all kinds of restrictions, such as streams, special regulations and others, the issue of a licence from a free professional engineer for category 3 buildings can lead to a new generation of arbitrary ones. And that's the big problem. This is because the effective control will be carried out after the work has been started by a building auditor, but he can only verify the conformity of the work with the licence and not with the legality of the building. So these permits can be cancelled at any time in the future either by the service or by the courts, creating a new generation of arbitrary ones. Ladies and gentlemen, a report on the Electronic Services. The main provisions are a copy of article 4 of Law 4030, on which the previous government and December 2014 had prepared the contents of the Joint Ministerial Decision to put the Electronic Services System into effect. Of course, I would remind you that a pilot operation of the Electronic Services in ten Building Services in collaboration with the Technical Chamber of Greece had taken place. Therefore, not only have you introduced the Electronic Services, but you are also burdened with the inertia and inability from which you are committed to push forward and act for thirty-two months on a joint ministerial decision, which you have found ready. For two and a half years the government has not promoted the activation of the electronic issue of building permits, which has been handed over to it ready for signatures and the electronic system, which, unfortunately, remains untapped. Activation since 2015 could, as you can see, have helped reduce bureaucracy. The same, of course, applies to the electronic identity of a building. The electronic building identity was first established with L.3843/2010 in Articles 2, 3 and 4 and was supplemented by L.4178 in Article 3 for the recording of all properties in their actual state. The process of electronic identity was completed as in November 2014 the required presidential decree not only was promoted, but was returned by the Council of State without any substantial observations. All you had to do, Minister, was activate it to take effect in 2015. So, after you have lost three whole years, you are now actually bringing the same provisions, but on the other hand, instead of the Presidential Decree on the activation of the electronic identity of buildings, you are considering the adoption of KHS and ministerial decisions, that is, you are starting the process from the beginning. As far as the Earth Bank is concerned, we basically have the rename of the Earth Bank, which was established with Law 4178/2013 at the Bank of Rights and Public Areas, with the same arrangements. In order to implement and operate it, however, Mr Minister, you refer us to the adoption of a joint ministerial decision and six ministerial decisions. The system proposed by the government is practically inapplicable, bureaucratic and opaque. No such system is going to work effectively and transparently if it is not electronic and personless. The procedures laid down for the establishment of zones, regions and others, but also for the issue of securities, are difficult and time-consuming. The regulation for the Earth Bank and the building factor is, unfortunately, moving into an old and outdated logic of state bureaucracy. Mr Minister, I asked you twice to the committee and you did not answer me. However, I would like an answer to the House today. Are you able to tell us how long you estimate that the first transfer of a builder will be possible after the legalisation? We also believe that there is a question with the resources of the Green Fund, regardless of what you said at today's press conference, which you have given. You choose to transfer resources from the Green Fund to the Ministry. You choose to manage these resources centrally instead of having a decentralised approach to the resources that they give to the Green Fund. It is also a good interview, Mr Minister, but we would like an answer, because that is why we have asked you in committee twice. The Government must officially inform the House whether the existing resources of the Green Fund, EUR 2.5 billion already in existence, and at least EUR 2 billion planned by the already declared arbitrary ones, are now available for environmental balance actions, or whether it has agreed with the lenders that the funds will be committed by 2021, which is the new medium-term. Minister, today you have given a press conference. You said that there is a consensus among all the parties in this House, almost or by a large majority. You said this bill brings great changes. You spoke about how you would use these EUR 4.5 billion. But we would like an answer here, and the answer we want to make is clear. Are they committed, yes or no, that money? Ladies and gentlemen, by closing down, the New Democracy in the articles of the bill in which it consents will express its consent with a positive vote. In the articles in which she disagrees she will record her disagreement, while we have proposed legislative improvements, such as the prohibition of legal acts in property with arbitrary constructions or town-building infringements, which are unclear in its application, but also the fact that they are not explicitly excluded from the ban on legal acts by those who have been incorporated into Laws 4014 and 4178. The legislative work requires, ladies and gentlemen, seriousness, a culture of cooperation and must be governed by the principle of credibility and the continuity of the state. We regret, however, that this is still the case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-17-S1-commons.u6	You've finished exactly in your time, Mr. President. We continue with the special speaker from the Democratic Association, Mr Dimitrios Konstantopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-17-S1-commons.u7	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the debate in plenary on the draft law on the structured environment is closed. Acknowledgement first: The government's legislative work follows specific tactics. It falls within the existing and tested framework of the PASOK governments, trying to present a proposal for its own. This proposal, however, in many cases, fails to launch the changes needed and the adjustments to be made to the spirit of the new era. Lords of government, Minister, your anxiety is not to present anything new, but to excommunicate the past, to spend the work of a government and to degrade our policy. That explains your refusal to issue a presidential decree and the ministerial decisions that were needed to implement the already adopted provisions, such as the electronic identity of buildings and the electronic way of issuing licences. As a result, these procedures are now to be legislated again from the outset. Gentlemen of the government, the people have both openness and thought and memory. The conclusions of yours. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, despite the good intentions of the bill, as we have stressed in the debate on the articles, there are many problematic provisions that do what is happening. They increase bureaucracy, Mr Papadopoulos, as well as the public and create, instead of solving, problems. They also cost property owners extra costs. The bill provides for the setting-up of observers at central, regional and local level. Minister, I would like to ask you: Since these services could help to control the structured environment, I would say, on behalf of the state, why do you not clarify how and when they will be deployed? The bill also provides for the creation of boards and committees, most of which are already in operation. Instead of working to make them more efficient and to serve the public interest, all we do is to change their forming. But so, dear Minister, we do not solve problems. We suggested that the Architecture Councils should also be involved by political engineers because they are responsible for judgement of stagnation. You did not accept our proposal. Now I come to the following question: since the Councils are not only looking at changes to the facets, but also on matters of stagnation, who will assess them and who will decide? So why do you leave engineers apart from the Architecture Councils? Minister, it is certain that the arrangements of the bill for councils and committees do not lead to decentralisation. On the contrary, however, they are increasing even more, I would say, bureaucracy. The bet of all of us is, of course, one: how to combat this cord called the 'grass'. In the issue of building permits, you repeat existing regulations. Both the electronic way of issuing licences and the issue of the licence under the responsibility of the engineer was already provided for. What was called for as institutional reform was to create the conditions so that every engineer who issues a licence is responsible for ensuring that there is no change in legislation, which he of course does not know. What we now come to under these rules is, on the one hand, engineers should be responsible and, on the other hand, licences should be issued without effective State legal control. Article 49, first of all, creates a register of engineers, while there is still a need for the adoption of the Presidential Decrees on the professional rights of diplomats and TEs engineers. How, then, will this provision be applied? It's a question. You've got to answer us. I note, however, that the Scientific Service of the Parliament also points out in its report that this arrangement does not include TEI engineers. Professional rights and unequal treatment of TEI engineers are therefore raised. So things are clear. Secondly, with a legislative improvement that you brought forward and tabled, Minister, you added paragraph 5 to Article that the plans for building permits for traditional settlements, preservers, etc. are signed by architects. This arrangement, Minister, restricts the professional rights of civil engineers, for which Article 29 of Law 4439/2016 applies, on the basis of which several committees were set up and worked. For the electronic identity of the buildings I have already stressed that it is an already legislated procedure. It serves the urban planning of the country. However, it involves a great deal of cost, which citizens will not be able to bear. We therefore propose, Minister, since electronic identity serves the public interest, its cost is deducted from taxes linked to the property. Take note of this and I would like an answer. With regard to disciplinary control on engineers referred to in Article 60, it should be clarified, ladies and gentlemen, that the control is carried out by their associations and, in the case of TSE engineers, this is the SETEM. As far as the electronic identity of municipalities is concerned, I would like to say that the municipalities bear a heavy burden. We need to take care that the process is progressing at the same time throughout the country, both in large municipalities, which have infrastructure, and in small and remote municipalities. As far as the regulation for the Bank of Rights and the transfer of a coefficient is concerned, it has a picture of quite bureaucratic. It is unknown whether and when it will be applied. I would stress that the Scientific Committee of the Parliament, depending on the case-law of the S.H.E., concludes that it is necessary to select suitable sites for the reception of building factors and to provide for the maximum building coefficient that is being transferred. Ladies and gentlemen, I come to the arbitrary arrangements. The provisions largely replicate Law 4178/2013, a law which was found to be constitutional in the S.H.E. and it proved, I would say, particularly effective in practice. More than a million have already been declared arbitrarily. The draft law provides for lower fines today, which is positive and, in particular, in the midst of the juncture and especially in the midst of the crisis. Mr Minister, I told you and the committee about the articles. However, the prediction of increasing fines based on the period when they will be subject to the law punishes those who are, Minister, into poverty, into poverty. Also, there is no care for the owners who have been subject to previous laws and have already paid higher fines. Ladies and gentlemen, the question is that there should be a level playing field for everyone. So they all have to pay the same. So the choices are two: either to repay them the money, which I do not see, or to make a set-aside with debts for this property, such as HISPIA. With regard to the study of static adequacy, we have stressed, Minister, that the cost of static adequacy can be thousands of euros, especially in old buildings. We are in favour of stagnation control, especially in earthquake areas. However, citizens will not be able to respond to this great cost. We need to find a solution. We have proposed that either the NRP be financed or offset by other obligations of the owners. With regard to the ban on leasing in arbitrary terms, the provision, Minister, is unclear here. How will it be ensured that there is no arbitraryness - the first - and what will the consequences be if arbitrary then? Will a tenant, in other words, not pay rent if he finds that he is arbitrary? We will therefore lead the citizens to the courts with such provisions. Minister, on the resources from the fines. These resources, as I have said on the articles, must be directed towards recreational actions in areas which are already burdened. 25% provided by the bill for municipalities is not enough. We have proposed at least 50% -60% of the fines to be directed to the municipalities, because we have managed to give the municipalities no resources, 15% to 25% in the region and 25% in the Green Fund. Also, Minister, you are transferring resources from the Green Fund to the Ministry. It's not: Why? Law 4178/2013 provided that the resources from the arbitrary fines would go where there was a heavy urban burden from the arbitrary. With the new provision on which these resources will be directed, Minister? Can you answer us where the resources will go? You will choose, in other words, which municipalities will be financed in this way and who will not? Minister, from Article 126 and from now on the bill contains a number of arrangements on many different issues. I shall be standing in Article 134, which is set in the context of the completion of the PPC - IPTO. The provision concludes the agreement on the administration of IPTO. Our position is well known, that the government has granted private management rights that are normally attributed only to majority shareholders. In Article 139, for the incineration centre of the dead in olive trees, the arrangement is supposed to be in line with the Presidential Decree on land use. However, this has not been examined by the S.F.C., i.e. there is a risk that the provision will not have any effect if there is a different crisis from the S.F.C. I come to the amendments tabled by the Democratic Independence, which we invite you, as I have called on you to accept in the debate on the articles. For forest maps it is necessary, Minister, to extend until the end of the year. The deadline for objecting to forest maps expired on 25 September. The deadline, Minister, for forest maps has expired for many years, due to delays, I would say, from the public services, that is, on our own responsibility, under the responsibility of the state. We invite you to accept it and restore injustice. Article 117 proposes that it should be recast to include cases in which there are two or more retainers within the same plot and which have been exceeded in only one of them. We are proposing to extend the arrangements for the arbitrary construction of aquaculture units provided for in Article 121, to the legally operated desalination plants. In other words, this is equal treatment and equal treatment. In Rule 147, with the amendment we have tabled, a clear timetable is set for the relocation and expropriation of the settlements of the Arctic and Antarctic. The procedures must finally be completed. The settlement of the Occupied Territories is at risk of desertification. There is therefore a serious issue of biopollution for all residents. Because it is a regulation which, as a whole, we expect you to accept our amendment and take our remarks into account. As far as the amendments you have tabled are concerned, I am going to focus on the subject of HICP. Here, Minister, I would like you to tell me if it concerns a particular investment. We cannot give general authorisation. We may not disagree, but we would like to see a concrete solution. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill largely reflects existing regulations. Instead of actually offering the existing institutional framework, however, it creates, as I have said, bureaucracy and a malfunction in the public. We are, in principle, voting 'yes', based on the targeting of the bill and the problems it is trying to solve. We await your position, Minister, on our proposals and on the amendments we have tabled, and we will tell you our positive or negative view of these arrangements in detail and tomorrow in our second language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-17-S1-commons.u8	The reason is the special speaker of the Golden Dawn, Eleni Zarulia.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-17-S1-commons.u9	Thank you very much, Mr President. This draft law is entitled ‘Control and protection of the structured environment’. We think the title is incomplete. It should be added: "Another way for the government to put the hand even deeper in the Greek taxpayer's pocket." It would have been more complete. Gentlemen of the coup d'état of the first, and obviously last, you've been wearing the left, you've escaped a lot, you've been in total arrogance. At the same time that you disperse every concept of law, every ancient principle and the customs and customs of the once glorious Greek nation, with your protected kindness to regularly burn the Greek Flag in public sight and not only, but also cars and sometimes policemen, without of course being arrested, by perverting and essentially abolishing the teaching of our history, by devoting every illegal immigrant, by abolishing the vacancy of the Galan-White, by abolishing prayer in schools and recently by devotion to the new Greeks, that is to say, with the possibility of changing sex to the fifteen years, you are now coming after you have flouted the Greek society with a massive resilience and you have imposed every kind of perversion, as you say, after almost two and a "class" in the structured environment, a structured environment, a structured environment of which is here and a fully-structured, man-made nature, which is at its disposal. Already since the end of the gang, but especially after the post-population and the coming of your sacred cow, the so-called democracy, which you represent, virtual and distorted economic growth and prosperity led with the tolerance and support of all the post-government governments in the bourgeoisie, the result of which was, in the absence of a targeted national, social and environmental design and, in particular, through the shameless implementation of the adversary, the creation of monsoon cities, characterised by the phenomenon of unrealistic building on the altar of profit, without any respect for the effects that this would have on man and the natural environment. It may be a global originality to create vast cement and safe houses in modern Greek cities. As a result of this lack of planning and the tolerance of unregulated construction were the disastrous effects on the aesthetics of cities, on the quality of life of the citizens, the almost irreversible burden of the man-made structured environment to the worst possible extent, which was reflected, in particular, by the tragic deterioration of the micro-climate with the thermony in the large urban centres, which creates unbearable thermal discomfort, and the almost total disappearance of the green islands, with what this entails in the health of our people. Tragically, the consequences are also in the non-planned areas, which are being imprisoned and built on areas that were once forested, without often punishing the responsible ones. So our society turned from nation to nation in complete harmony and connection with Greek nature to a mass of people conspiring in the large urban centers, for chasing survival and prosperity. Since so many years you have done absolutely nothing to deal with these phenomena, since you have shown the tolerance you have shown, since you have not properly developed the urban complexes, you are now coming and you are making the Greek people pay the broken ones. It should not be seen as accidental that the last three laws, including the present, to deal with arbitrary constructions - n.4014/2011 and n.4178/2013, except for the oldest law of Tritsis - have been voted or voted under the hard and irresistible regime of the memorials. All the previous governments, therefore, have provided continuous and multiple extensions of the power of the respective laws to settle and legitimise arbitrary structures by prolonging the insecurity of citizens and by stepping up their distrust towards the state, keeping them hostage for something that they formerly tolerated and created. Moreover, it is well known that all the governments of the Transitional Governments should amend or abolish laws of previous governments, creating a climate of uncertainty and a sense of chaos to the ordinary citizen, which the State is supposed to be able to trust, at least in matters of legislating clear rules in the field of construction. In particular, by making a summary of the bill - monster, you intend to set up a new vast state mechanism, to create a new administrative structure for controlling and protecting the structured environment, to create a new institutional framework for the issue and control of licences, to re-activate the institution of the transfer of a builder and to secure an environmental balance with the establishment of a Building and Commonwealths Bank, to introduce arbitrary building control procedures and to subdue certain categories of arbitraryness in declaration and payment procedures to suspend any sanctions, to create the Electronic Urban Identity of a Municipality, for transparency and monitoring of spatial planning processes, a matter in which our country clearly lacks, to establish an electronic identity for all buildings, regardless of use, and to establish special categories of interest in the right of subordination. Commonly, instead of taking advantage of the existing human potential, restructure the public sector and invest in existing building control structures, you are creating new structures, obviously to give your own left mark in the whole case. The new generation of arbitrary people, which the Minister claims will not be created, will not only be done because there are no adequate conditions and security differences, but because of the pluralism and the lack of legislative codification. However, we must not forget the European directives, which we are obliged to integrate into our national law as members of the European family. So it will not be long before a new package of measures for the European Commission's 'clean clean energy package' is ratified, namely the development of a new strategy for public and private buildings to become more efficient by 2050, which is translated into a mandatory energy upgrade, which entails additional costs for property owners.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-17-S1-commons.u10	Mrs. Zaroulia, I'm sorry. Let me interrupt for ten seconds to make a statement to this House. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, thirty-six students and students and five educational attendants from the Municipal School from Perivlia Chania. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Carry on, Mrs. Zaroulia.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-17-S1-commons.u11	Given the budgetary circumstances, unfortunately no one will be able to meet the new requirements. It is doubtful whether they will be able to meet the requirements of this draft law. What if there were an eighty-three percent increase in the payments, what if there were a reduction in the fines for special charges? In particular, for the long-term unemployed, a 30% discount is foreseen for the main residence, and in the first two years following the submission of the declaration the instalments shall be suspended. After the two years, what's going to happen? Or is it none of your business, why will you no longer be in power and will the next one have to get through it? Are there also official records showing that this proposed arrangement will find a response and will be effective? But let us continue with some other provisions. Apart from setting up new councils, new structures such as the Observatory, new committees, re-activating councils, such as Architecture Councils or other collective bodies, as you describe them, you create new software and new databases. We have seen in the General Accounting Report that expenditure is not specified. We wonder: Why can't you identify them? Haven't you done a cost survey? Don't you know exactly what you need? Don't you know what's already there? And, assuming you know, can't you calculate the costs of interoperability and interconnection of existing bases? Different databases have been established at times in the Ministries and in the respective departments which ultimately operate independently of each other. There is no match, and the background is completely different. You have ever entered the process as simple citizens to search for files or have to cross-check information, charts, etc.Huh? If your answer is negative, then know that there is absolute chaos. We fear that these foundations that you say you will create, serve in the short term the purpose of their creation and then they will be left to their fate, not renewed and at some point they will cease to be operational. So it goes without saying that it does not cover what the Minister said at the last meeting of the committee, namely Article 33, that the old software is not applicable because the procedure was incomplete. And therefore, instead of making sure you complete it, you prefer to build something from the beginning at an undetermined cost. The problems posed by this situation, the lack of education for the relevant officials, the lack of know-how and the lack of information for the others involved. Positive could be the application of electronic building permits, as it is expected to reduce costs for citizens, costs for mechanics, bureaucracy and save time and resources for the public and private sectors. This is a crucial issue, as so far there have been many claws for the transition to the electronic era. Unfortunately, however, we cannot be optimistic, since all the data are not available in real time electronically, which has raised reactions from the technical world, since apart from the issue of adequate data availability, there is the burning issue of inadvertent errors on the part of engineers. I spoke a little earlier about pluralism and bureaucracy. This is demonstrated not only by the number of ministerial decisions required, joint ministerial decisions, presidential decrees and circulars, but also by the fact that eighteen documents are required to issue a building permit, eight for a demolition permit and eleven for small-scale operations. We cannot understand this, of course, and also the reduction in costs. Moreover, the authority of engineers is affected. Engineers, as well as cognitive and professional adequacy and experience, cannot perform the role of a regulator, which the state should have, but it throws them the ball of responsibility. The threat of excessive penalties leading to the removal of the licence to pursue a profession is practically inapplicable. In this case, professional responsibility is confused between criminal liability and civil liability, which are two quite different concepts, in the course of the engineering profession. Do not forget that the subject matter is not only entirely arbitrary, but even the normalisation of the semi-terrestrials. Do you really think that if the popular layers that have been committed to these infringements had the money, would they not get the necessary permits? What will happen is, at best in cases, to get into the adjustment process, to pay the first instalments and then stop them. Then what's gonna happen? What will your next actions be? Will the demolition process be triggered? As I mentioned the issue of demolition, it is unacceptable to threaten, with fines of EUR 6 000 to 10,000, the demolition operations that will refuse to assist in the demolition process. Do you keep in mind what will happen to small local communities? Are you forgetting the incidents in Sakhara in 2008 and in Rafina two years ago? If you want, we can see it differently. You want to make demolition decisions? Then let them be taken off for all those who have built villas and maisonettes in forest lands, ground lands or in semi-illegal settlements. Of course, all this would have been much simpler if the tariff and the register had been completed for decades. At some point it will have to end the matter of housing densities at all. We cannot constantly make the wrong eyes to the arbitrary people who have done for a country or main home or for a recreational home and, on the other hand, punish the productive farmer and the taxly exhausted citizen in general. In addition, Article 115 states that arbitrary constructions are subject to the provisions of this article in settlements built by the former Labour Housing Organization and we wonder why the beneficiary should pay any arbitraryness over the building he did himself. If anything had to come under, then that would be any arbitraryness created after the construction of the settlement and after the concession to the owners. Before I refer to some of the provisions of the fifth section of the bill, I would like to make a reference to the Green Fund and its resources. We are particularly sceptical about the fate of the sums to be paid, since his property has already been looted twice by previous governments and has ended up being the "black hole" of the budget. No one can ensure that this money is attributed, as originally foreseen, and that it is not used to cover other financial gaps or to return part of the debt burden or to the instalment of a loan. It is something that we have reiterated in previous bills, and unfortunately, it has been shown in practice that its resources have been directed towards actions of a different nature compared with the objectives that have been set and therefore have doubts as to the intentions of the legislator. One of the issues I had not mentioned in the committee, and it is extremely important for apartment owners in the apartments, is the separation from the central heating of the apartments, Article 127. The view of the Panhellenic Real Estate Owners Federation is catalytic at this point. We do not need to transfer the entire memorandum and placement of its representative, it is enough to repeat some of the phrases: 'This arrangement entails the spread of energy poverty into vastly popular strata throughout the country. The passage of pipes and cash from the front or common entrance of the buildings shall create a tertiary world image in the apartments, much worse than the current one and pose serious risks of fire safety in the multi-storey buildings.’; We would therefore ask you to see this provision again, to withdraw it, and if you wish to bring it back again, to ensure that it is reworked in the right direction. There are two provisions relating to IPTO and DADI. Our position for the separation and privatisation of PPC is known. We are opposed to any privatisation of public utilities and we believe that public goods, such as energy, should remain in state ownership and control. We also consider that some provisions are 'photographic' regulations, such as Article 138, which permits restaurants now for wineries located in Zoo Housing Controls, but also Article 143 which allows building near streams and Article 146, which concerns the issue of building permits for tourist facilities, even if there is ownership or administrative openness or no environmental conditions. Of course, the most provocative provisions are those concerning both the permits required for the housing of vulnerable social groups, including illegal immigrants, the creation of new temporary reception and hospitality structures for asylum seekers, i.e. illegal immigrants, at the height of Article 139, which is another legislative provision for avoiding reactions and obstacles to the placement of the deceased in olive oil. Finally, a positive provision is Article 147 concerning the forced expropriation of the Anargyri settlement of the Municipality of Amyntaios in Florina after the landslide of 10 June 2017. We must say that the question of the relocation of people has been raised since March by a question on this subject. Since 2011, these two settlements have been relocated by Law 3937/31-3-2011 and yet the problem has not been resolved until now. The important thing is that this announcement is not to remain as a promise, but to do so. I say this because we are still talking about the adoption of a ministerial decision and a relevant CIA to support the population of the settlement until expropriation. This may mean the end of a long time, but imagine what consequences another vague promise will have. There should be respect for public health and the environment and the state should ensure good living conditions for citizens. In conclusion, I would like to say that I really am not sure that this bill will be a break with the pathogens and malfunctions of the past, nor that there will be a rational management of the development of the area in terms of sustainability. Unfortunately, there will continue to be 'photographics' arrangements for individual cases and for voting reasons. The creation of new bodies, along with the division of powers in practice, will not become effective and, ultimately, the improvement of the living conditions of the citizens, as you refer to the explanatory statement, as this is the result of many actions and policies. Unfortunately you have shown that you are not doing so on the basis of the public interest and of the support of citizens, only on the basis of orders from outside actors, and above all continue the economic bleeding of the already charged Greek tax people.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-17-S1-commons.u12	Mrs Diamanto Manolakou, a special speaker from the Communist Party of Greece, is called in Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-17-S1-commons.u13	The truth is that arbitrary construction is, apart from spatial and urban, mainly political and classic. It has developed for decades, not only under the tolerance, but also under the blessings of the governments of New Democracy and PASOK. These arbitrages exist, there are and there will be as many poverty as there is, as long as there is a policy to trade the land and to trade the people's needs and especially the people's housing, on whose altar large-scale construction companies have won, the banking system and the urban state that is 'carrying', is now robbing people's incomes for years. On the one hand, we had a trespass and a change in the use of forest land or hayalos, mainly by big-time hoteliers, whose profits are being expelled, squeezing hotel crews with 300 euros and twelve hours of work, and on the other, trespassers who were cutting and selling in popular layers to put a tiles on their head. People's neighborhoods were built, which were illegally built and were even charged above because of this fact. They were extended to poor-quality towns, without infrastructure and roads, due to a lack of urban planning, with a deterioration in the quality of life, without energy networks, water, sewerage, schools, free spaces, green, cultural and sporting centres, and indeed with a political hostage - and you know that. We have many such cases in both Attiki and Heraklion Crete and Salamis and elsewhere. Of course, there were luxury villas, that is, luxurious dwellings. What are you coming to do with this bill? You are trying to modernise with a new organization and classify the structured space with criteria, however, to serve the profitability of the groups rather than of the people's family. This is why he has a classic, collective and anti-environmental character. You say that with the bill you are supposed to solve problems that civil policy itself has created and continues to reproduce in recent decades, such as the degradation of the structured environment, the multiple fragmentary laws, the demonic legislation, bureaucracy, etc. They are not distortions, but a conscious choice of urban policy to manage the structured environment and deal with the problem of popular housing, from the point of view of always ensuring the profitability of capital by investing the overcompensated capital, which exists, in new profitable areas. That is why, as the Attica Association of Officials says, in a communication we present in the Minutes, you privatise public responsibilities and treat people's housing as a field of coercion and the environment as a merchandise, which can be trampled and exploited by anyone who has money to pay. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Diamanto Manolaku, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of Parliament.]] That is to say, priority areas, which urban policy prefers for exiting the crisis and entering a new phase of capitalist development. The main criterion is the maximisation of profit and not the quality of the structured environment, since the commercialisation of the land cannot be reconciled with the quality of the structured environment, with free shared areas, with forests, mountains, shores and others. The main axes of this policy are, firstly, the facilitation of large investment through the simplification of large capital licensing procedures, the reduction of delay barriers, such as environmental licensing and changes in the use of land in favour of groups. Secondly, speeding up the process of concentration and concentration of land and capital and in the area of private projects. Thirdly, speeding up the controlled depreciation of capital by reducing mainly small manufacturing enterprises - we mean self-employed engineers - but also depreciating investment in existing dwellings. You have new tools, a multitude of different certificates you ask for in the buildings. Basically, you will turn a large volume of buildings into inappropriate. How? When the owner is unable to spend new funds. Current ELSTAT data gives a decrease in consumption expenditure for 2016 compared to 2015. Of course, they don't have any money for daily food, much less, extras for home. So here's how the depreciation of these dwellings comes. Today large banking groups, real estate management companies own a large portfolio of real estate from seizures, auctions, which need to be managed, but which ensures good profits. This is the "National Development Strategy 2021" promoted by the government, and by reducing the tile of the people's family through the auctions. Besides, in its recent report the Bank of Greece considers it necessary to change the country's production model, emphasising the effective management and impairment of red loans. Already, banks are preparing themselves in the next few months and through electronic auctions to buy eight to ten thousand properties, cleaning their portfolios of red loans. Of course, your savage anti-grassroots policy will follow more. You have already introduced the electronic auctions three times a week instead of one day a week, which has been the case so far. In order to assess the present value of the building stock, this commodity must be recorded. How? Through the electronic building ID. In this way, it will be assessed, regulated, valued with new aid operations will be determined, for example, by a static adequacy study. They are all these properties, which, after being adjusted and refined, repair and possibly strengthen to their own body, will re-market as a new product by the new owners. As far as micro-enterprises are concerned, the small reductions in fines provided for in this bill to settle the family homes are in no way a philosophical regulation, but even a motif in order to serve your collective policy, plundering the people's income. Too many properties still have not been subjected to the law by economic weakness, while in what has already been subjected many are the owners who are unable to pay the instalments. Thus, the fines imposed may seem rather lighter compared to the previous law - the paradoxes from 500 euros to 250 euros, new objective zone values, increasing the doses of sixty in a hundred -- but new mechanisms are being introduced that look beyond the regulation process, i.e., they are a series of continuously bleeding people's income arrangements with building identities, continuous renewal every five years, compulsory reporting through an authorised engineer, static adequacy study, etc. And all this is paid. In addition, new surface-to-surface take-off contributions are coming through a transfer of a build-up factor in order to exclude them from demolition. New tools for extra rabbles. The new framework that you are putting in this draft law is not about preventing arbitrary construction, but about actions and procedures for monitoring, identifying and sanctions, that is, recording the end result of arbitrary construction and not dealing with measures to address it. Promote the privatisation of services, since even in the institutions of the Observatory you are creating, private companies with building auditors, as well as environmental organisations, are involved, with all the consequences of privatising audit services. It follows from the provisions of the bill that a clear targeting of small property by banning legal acts and any transfer or creation of an property right to an arbitrary property, such as rental, licence, property insurance, legacy and others, is clearly established. But you do exclude it in the tourists and the big hotels. However, workers with low incomes who cannot cope with the continuing burden on their regulation and maintenance, within the legal framework, will leave them with serious consequences for both income and the structured environment. By allegedly simplifying the process of approvals by entities and services, you satisfy the requirement for business groups to circumvent the implementation of their fast track investments. Fast track criteria, however, are also introduced in the context of business activities in the construction of luxurious dwellings and in the construction of business properties. In the course by electronic control, if errors and shortcomings are detected, construction works will be interrupted and a very tight margin of time will be given. The procedure you propose creates more problems for the self-employed engineer, because he will not start work before the approvals, tests of studies and the issue of building permits are completed in fear of something being applied wrong and the project is declared arbitrary and work is stopped. The major construction and study companies that are able to manage these developments in good time and efficiently, after having stockpile in capital, equipment, labour and continuous activity that will make use of the possibility of starting work, at the same time as submitting the data on the files. This is how private projects are concentrated and centralised. In addition, this project shifts the responsibilities of state approval of design and construction control to private engineers, either as designers or as building auditors, as well as to the previous law. With regard to the electronic identity of the building you are promoting, it is for each individual to pay for his own personal expenses and for a reasonable period to pay a private engineer for drafting the file, after having settled arbitrariness and possibly stepping up his arbitrary construction. A lasting obligation and a financial burden for the owners is therefore introduced, but also a constant criminalisation of the profession of engineer, as his obligation, responsibility and serious sanctions extend to international law. As far as the Bank is concerned, it is essentially facilitated by the transfer of a build-up factor to increase land for building new buildings. With regard to the calculation of a fine in the autonomous underground that was arbitrarily converted into a home or a shop, the cost of the fine is much higher compared to underground and wise in villas and maisonettes that do not constitute an autonomous space. So you overreact the popular layers in degraded areas and favour playrooms and wisdom of the rich. That's why your bill is too classy. It is also unfair, because you do not offset previously fines for the same property that had paid higher fines. Promote privilegedly the tourist capital and allow it to use the previous legal regime to relieve it of illegality when poorly carved. Of course, they produce provocatively more benefits, which the Scientific Service of the Parliament also identifies in its report, which states that it is not in line with the case-law of the Court of Justice and Article 89. So here's your exceptions what they are.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-17-S1-commons.u14	Ms. Manolakou, you're finishing up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-17-S1-commons.u15	I shall conclude, Mr President. It also demonstrates the unscientific separation of PPC and DEDDIE, since it is not on a productive but economic basis, as the anti-Scientific anti-Scientific groups of the European Union are struggling with the liberation of energy against the people and in favour of the profitability of the groups. We are therefore voting against your bill, which confirms that arbitrary construction is not a natural phenomenon. It has to do with the capitalist way of producing, according to which the earth is a merchandise and not a social asset.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-17-S1-commons.u16	Mr. George Lazaridis, a special speaker from the Independent Greeks, is called in Stepma. Before Mr. Lazarides took the floor, I would like to inform you that we made a calculation. Thirty colleagues have been written. Overall Parliamentary Representatives, Ministers, today and tomorrow, are around eight to eight-and-a-half hours. So I think we can break it in two: tonight to go around 10:00 to 10:30 and tomorrow four to four and a half hours, from 10:00 in the morning. So, logically by three o'clock at noon, we'll be done. If you agree, we'll take it that way.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-17-S1-commons.u17	The House's blowing up. Mr. Lazarides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-17-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to begin by saying, Minister, that I, too, agree with Mr Constantopoulos on extending the forest maps, that an extension should be granted. I have been taken from Macedonia, in particular from Halkidiki, from Thessaloniki and other areas where there is a serious problem. For some time now, I have also asked for this to be extended, because these problems arising from the drawing up of forest maps do not arise from the responsibility of the citizens, resulting from the responsibility of the officials of the forest offices, because the way in which they drafted the maps is wrong, Minister. They took evidence from aerial photographs in 1945 and applied them on the map. This resulted in 1955 reforestations not being taken into account, in 1960, 1965, so we have these problems. They characterize as woodlands of lots. They're not just parcels, they're lots. They were given the reafforestations to farmers, to be used as fields, as fields. I therefore also subscribe to that request for an extension. Now I want to say something else. I would like to make a reference to the memorandum - I was already mentioned by the committees - tabled by the OTE Construction Partnership. Of course, there are other cooperatives. They have been joining, gathered into six thousand acres and people are asking for - they are right - some time that this problem should be solved, because for decades, especially since 1965, these people have been hostaged. In other words, while we had to find a solution from the previous governments and make a stream in the region, in order for people to meet their residential needs - after all, we are talking about a large area of six thousand acres, so that a rhetoric could be implemented, which would be modern, would satisfy all the requirements, it would be environmentally friendly - and yet it was not. We need to see that, too, because people are fifty-two years in hostage. Another co-operative, the "Scaler" in Skala Oropo, sent me a memo. They're five hundred acres too. They really are requests that cannot raise awareness and must at some point be resolved. Because all these decades they have not met their demands in order to have a temper and build people, they are not responsible. What I have said many times here is that the forestry legislation, as in general the way in which this system was legislated, was archaic, there was this polynomialism, so that it is powerless. I have said so, I will say it again and I will say it: in no country in the world there is no legal term 'flavoured field'. It's only in Greece that you meet that. Or a field is something or a forest. Here in Greece it is a wooded field, that is also a forest and a field. I'll get an example here. In the Peloponnese these years, a million four hundred thousand mountainous and semi-urban crops have been abandoned, where people cultivated psychotic, legumes, etc. of excellent quality. Now, because of the crisis, they want to return and cultivate the fields. They can't cultivate them, because they'll take the forests and tell them "your fields are forested!" I mean, we're talking about absurd, outrageous things! Here too, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that at some point we must all sit together - because this is a matter that we must see with sensitivity, beyond party and political shades, for the benefit of the citizens - and to make modern forestry legislation. To get away from these tangles of the past. Minister, I would like to make a few comments at once before I come to my position on Article 64, which states the obligation to attach the engineer's attestation to the notary acts. That's right. But in cases of acceptance of a legacy, as you know, Minister, it's a forced succession, so heirs undergo extra expenses. They have to pay the bills of acceptance, IRS, etc., so we have to see this as well.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-17-S1-commons.u19	This has been abolished!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-17-S1-commons.u20	Is it abolished? I didn't know, I wasn't informed. I'm talking about Article 64.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-17-S1-commons.u21	Keep going and you'll have the answer from the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-17-S1-commons.u22	All right, Mr. President. We also need to see the issue of reducing documents for contracts. Because if anyone wants to draw up a real estate transfer contract, whether it's sale, parental provision, donation or whatever, a card pile is needed. In Article 83, paragraph 8, as far as static adequacy is concerned, I also told the committees that it should not be mandatory for legalisation in arbitrary construction, because we are talking about infringements of urban sizes, covering the dimensions of the building, etc. So, because for the static adequacy of the engineer - and I myself am an engineer - in order to do the various tests, he has to take tests, put carrots, etc., costs in exceptional cases can exceed 10,000 euros. It is therefore unfair to subject citizens to such suffering. I would suggest, in extreme cases, that, instead of subjecting the citizen to these costly procedures, he also decides with a subsidy to shield the building in a static way, whether with cloaks or with anything else. I mean, money that the engineer would give to take the tests to give them for the static shielding of the building. In Article 3, which concerns the composition of the specialisation councils, I would like to make these specialities clearer. For building partnerships, we have another problem now, Minister, that they are being burdened with ENPIA. And you know that in the building cooperatives the whole area is taken into account. This leads, while owners are many, to take the whole area, to tax the whole. And this has the effect of getting away, because of the total amount, and of going to the big property tax, and that is how people have a great burden. And that's what we need to see. And before I go any further, I would like to say this: these people I mentioned earlier about the building cooperatives could have been built and legalised now. But people wanted to work legally, they didn't build, they didn't do anything and finally - I put it in quotes and they forgive me for the expression - "they got suckers." In any case, they wanted people to function legally. That is why I say that we need to look at this at some point sensitively, Minister. In Article 29, too, case 2l and Article 30 should probably be further clarified. I'm glad we agree, Minister. With regard to Article 41 (e), what will apply to the cases of immovable property without relevant building permits? I would also ask you, Minister, to see in Article 96, paragraph (d) regarding conditionalisation in respect of immovable property not included in the prohibition provisions of the law, but cases falling under the previous legislation and for which delays in the accession household plans have arisen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing today a bill aimed at upgrading and protecting small and large towns against all forms of urban arbitrariness. The unregulated situation in the structured environment in many regions of the country with strong tourist development is easily perceived by non-experts and makes this legislation imperative. This government has received a country that has no Land register, has no forest maps and instead has an antiquated, anachronistic and anti-investmental forestry legislation. It does not have'beaches' - within introductory sections - it does not have urban plans and at regular intervals it is called upon to deal with a huge problem with spatial, environmental and social dimensions, the arbitrary construction. The bill, in order to achieve its goal even more easily and to cover a permanent void status, inability to solve basic needs and solve pathogens, is innovative. Its aims include care, prevention and environmental protection and dealing with bureaucracy in terms of permits, which will facilitate and settle cases with strong income and social criteria. At the same time, it gives a strong signal from 2011, and henceforth for what is arbitrary now there is a strong risk of imposing fines, which will be far greater than the value of the property. This is a strong message that no one will ever dare to incorporate constructions from now on by choosing the arbitrary procedure. The bill introduces a series of new tools to more effectively address the needs arising from the need to develop urban complexes. What needs to be ensured is a clear framework, under which guidelines will be given to central and regional authorities, in order to resolve citizens' issues. But all things have a operative cause. The arbitrary construction has been dispersed, because the state has not been able to monitor the needs of its citizens for many years. For example, in my city, Thessaloniki, as I mentioned at the meetings of the committee responsible in the 1960s, the population was around three hundred to four hundred thousand. By the end of the 1970s and by the entry into the 1980s, its population exceeded one million. If you see what the extensions were in the plan, they were from nonexistent to minimal and therefore citizens had to settle their needs on their own. This resulted in arbitrary construction. They were arbitrarily building and then the state came and incorporated these areas into the town plan. That's why we see city plans with narrow roads, etc. For example, in Stavroupolis, Naples, Meteora, Sicily and many other regions, 90% of these settlements have been built arbitrarily without the citizens to blame. That's all I said. The state could not monitor or want some civil servants or representatives of public bodies to satisfy or perceive these needs of citizens. As we have pointed out many times, the service that, first of all, was to brake any extensions which were the local forest office or the various forestry services, because, as we have already stressed, forest legislation is obsolete. We hope to see forest legislation responding to today's needs, to the real needs of citizens, but also to be lawful, in accordance with European law. In no country in the world, as I have said many times and said before, there is no legal term 'flavoured field'. We're the only country we have this. Or a forest will be an area or a field. All of this results in this malfunction. On the other hand, we also have the phenomena of too little capacity to build on the non-planned parcels, on the four acres. In other words, we say that in the four acres a two hundred square meters can be built, or 0,05 factor. Clearly, he'll be outlawed. While, if there was an election - and I am not talking about the derogations, but about the four acres and above - and the building limits were higher, for example, four hundred or six hundred square metres depending on the size of the parcel - and the legislation was too strict, merciless with the offenders, I am sure that the citizens would not be illegal, because they would be able to meet their needs. The creation of new collective bodies at regional level is confronted with the problem of aggregation of cases, such as the setting-up of a Structured Environment and Spatial Planning Control Directorate, the so-called ‘Observatory’, which composes annual reports to the Minister for the Environment, identify all delays, pathogens, as well as malfunctions in the development of urban planning. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, please be indulgent for a very short time. With regard to the construction framework, it is proposed to create three categories of licensing method, with the main aim of minimising waiting time, with the most important element of the draft law the separation of control services, which are the observers, from the licensing services. The electronic procedure for submitting, monitoring and issuing building permits - very importantly - is also introduced by the municipalities, who, through the operation of an electronic town identity, will bring information to monitor spatial planning processes. After the verification, the auditors shall draw up a finding and introduce the establishment of an electronic building identity for the purpose of living control of the buildings. Obligation to introduce into the institution of electronic identity have the new buildings, the transfer or the acquisition of new building permits. It is an important measure to stop cases of arbitrary transfer. An important measure, as far as local communities are concerned, is the creation of the Electronic Urban Identity of a Municipality, where each municipality registers its public or infrastructural sites and provides for the connection to the National Land register, the National Forest and others. It will work as a key source of information to examine the development potential of the real estate and avoid cases of irresistible construction, such as the ones I mentioned before in my city of Thessaloniki. The extensions to the town plan were from non-existent to minimal. The citizens therefore had to take care of their own needs. This has resulted in what we have said earlier in the arbitrary construction. I'm accelerating my position. More specifically, we see provisions to introduce innovative processes to combat arbitrary construction by electronic data entry and storage. In addition, strict criminal sanctions are provided for the contractors concerned, materials transporters and engineers in the building of the arbitrary and some facilities are given to the stakeholders in any voluntary demolition of an arbitrary building, with significant reductions in fines, while, for arbitrary ones after 2011, the building fines are strictly increased to 100% of their objective value and the maintenance fines are increased to 50%, in an attempt to build barriers to new arbitrary buildings. We also welcome the beneficial provisions for real estates of the public, OTA, religious areas, traditional settlements, preserved buildings and other buildings, which, with the appropriate consideration, will continue the work they want, resolving a matter of years.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-17-S1-commons.u23	Mr. Lazarides, you must finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-17-S1-commons.u24	I shall now conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-17-S1-commons.u25	No, 'Advanced'. Come on, let's get it over with.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-17-S1-commons.u26	I will end in less than half a minute, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-17-S1-commons.u27	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-17-S1-commons.u28	In this bill the financial burdens for anyone who wants to legitimise his arbitrary are lighter than in the past - and rightly so - because of the economic situation, due to the economic closeness of the citizens. So, after all, it should be from the past. I am sure the overwhelming majority or those who have still not settled will come forward with this bill, because it is a great opportunity to settle their real estates. The Independent Greeks are positive towards the bill, because, as I said at first, they are in the right direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-17-S1-commons.u29	We are therefore reaching the last speaker, Mr Ioannis Saridis, from the Central Association. Here, Mr Saridis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-17-S1-commons.u30	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, you must look very seriously at the extension of forest maps. You must look very seriously at the amendment tabled by the Democratic Reconciliation and its rapporteur, Mr Constantopoulos. The problems facing the world at least in central Macedonia - which I can know what problems it faces - are too much. So you should appreciate this initiative positively and accept the amendment. The draft law we are debating here today in plenary is a very important subject, which has deep social roots in our country. As we all know, the following two things have been true over the last forty years in Greece. Firstly, we had the highest percentage of ownership in Europe and, secondly, we thought - and rightly so - that no Greek government would try to find out if it could withstand the political cost of projecting images of bulldozers that break down arbitrarily. These two undeniably have a reasonable explanation. They emerged normally in our country and have the roots of their appearance in the older generations, those who fought to retreat that Greece who lived in wars, who lived in poverty, who lived impoverishment, and who fought hard to have a tiles, as she said, above her head and perhaps a house near the sea. But that would leave them to her children. These generations did what they thought was right, and these generations achieved their purpose. These generations have every right today to be proud of what they have achieved. Sadly, however, pride is not eaten. Today, then, these people fear that they will lose their homes and all you give them to be kept is the speech of the banks and the Minister of Justice, Mr Kontonis, who said that there is a price agreement not to sell houses worth less than EUR 300,000. These people have, indeed, managed to build a modern Greece. Whenever they could build, they built. They took care of putting money aside for this purpose, and when they were given the opportunity to improve their homes, they did so with great pleasure and care. That was the case for ordinary citizens who built a house in this way and in any way they could. At the same time, however, some eagles, without respect for the environment or the ancients, without respect for anything at all, violated every kind of law and built "thee" by destroying the environment in a variety of ways. This situation has been attempted by almost all Greek governments to pretend that they will effectively deal with it on their own initiative. As a result, these false intentions have been pluralism and bureaucracy, which have never allowed nor allowed a limit to enter and stop this unjustified behaviour in the year 2017, irresponsible conduct, nor of course to see bulldozers on the news. The bill you are asking us to support is your own attempt, the attempt of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, to set a line that will be respected, that is effective and will not leave room for violations. You are claiming that your legislative initiative will be able to create those conditions so that it will eventually enter a class which is admittedly distorted. I do not believe that there will be anything in the debate to question your good intentions, and that is why I will not do so. So we recognize honesty in your intentions. But you have not been able to put forward strong arguments to convince us that what you are going to do with what you are proposing will also be possible in reality and that your ideas are actually sustainable. Everything remains to be proved in practice. There are already protests from a number of bodies. Many believe that this law will also be added to the large number of previous efforts which they too did not achieve for which they were intended, but clearly less than that. The law will show whether its implementation will succeed in protecting both citizens and the public interest. The Centro Association will vote for'residences' in principle, mainly to highlight the fact that you have chosen to take the responsibility for yourself the success of the law under discussion today, while you have had the opportunity to force us to share the responsibility for its implementation. So we will monitor the implementation of the law very closely, highlight the problems that are almost certain to be created and try to propose sustainable solutions every time. Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that although the draft law has been too late, it includes some interesting ideas, such as the minimisation of waiting times and the electronic procedure for licensing, the building rights bank and public spaces, the rate reception zones, and even the electronic identity. These are proposals which have been heard in the past and I believe that all of us would like to do so, but in the right way and not as the government has chosen to do so. The problematic functioning of the institutional structures and mechanisms for controlling construction and the structured environment, as well as the lack of codification of the ideal urban legislation and jurisprudence with multiple interpretations and deliberate misinterpretations, contribute to the creation and, ultimately, to the glorification of the phenomenon of arbitrary ones. In conclusion, the primary and essential aim of any integrated - as should be - legislative initiative is the codification of legislation and the simplification of procedures. Although legislation cannot be convincingly asserted that it is finally codified, and for the procedures it is certain that they are multiplying. And until the tens of ministerial decisions are adopted, the presidential decrees, the detailed circular directives and the implementation of all the proposed directives, it is certain that for months the entire mechanism of the Ministry and the regions will deal with recruitment, placement and travel. It is a good thing, of course, that the Minister has committed himself to the committee that in a semester all of this will have been completed. However, for Article 31 it said that the necessary new law for the competent bodies to carry out construction work, the responsibility of the Ministry of Interior, will be adopted as from 1 January 2018 and we see it. I must also point out that the reduction provided for in Article 125 of the fines for those who have failed to do so to date or have delayed declaring building arbitrages and will do so under this law, is unjustified for all those citizens who have had time to trust the state, under previous laws, and have paid significantly larger fines. The Minister told the committee that he can't do anything about it. This means that this government is also perpetuating unacceptable practice: the more consistent, the more wise the citizen suffers the greatest bleeding. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Ms. CHRISTOPOULOUou, takes over the President's seat.]] But we will support it. We are obliged to vote 'at present' in principle, recognizing the need to change things at last in our country. Our parliamentary representative will be placed on the articles tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-17-S1-commons.u31	Thank you for the time too. Now Mr. Amyras has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-17-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Madam President. I think I'll be quick on Mr. Saridis as well. Ladies and gentlemen, what if building activity has always been and is a basis for the development of the Greek economy? It has not been tackled over the years either by politics or society. Multi-corruption. The lack of codification of this polynomialism in a text so that the trading citizen is aware of what, of course, the lack of spatial planning for decades and, of course, multi-teaching bureaucracy have brought about an inability to control urban legislation. And where did we get here? We have come to the corruption of towns. Buildings with various research were, in Greek, the number one place of corruption. We have reached the delay of the unreasonable time of issuing the permits. We have reached the cancellation of town planning arrangements by the Council of State as unconstitutional, because there has not been proper preparation and work. In other words, we see the result of this chronic situation: arbitrary in forests. arbitrary in archaeological sites, almost inside. arbitrary in streams. arbitrary everywhere, in cities, in villages, in nature, in the countryside. We also have some examples that have escaped the rule but only with the will of those who ran it. For example, 'COSTA NAVARINO'. It took the apologised captain, as he said in his interviews, thirty-two years to gather the licenses needed to build 'COSTA NAVARINO', which has brought measurable results in the region at a level of billions of euros. We have another example, 'THE MALL' in Maroussi. How he devoured, how he was built, how "THE MALL" was founded, in violation of all urban legislation, that is also indicative of Greek maliciousness. So I was saying that with this draft law we could put an end to our evil self once and for all. Unfortunately, that won't happen. We do not form a regulatory environment that is flexible, simple and effective so that we do not live in the future and tell stories like today about what I said to you: 'COSTA NAVARINO', which is the exception to the rule and 'THE MALL' which is the norm. One step forward, I'll tell you with a generous spirit, half back makes this draft law on some issues. Yes to the use, of course, of electronic tools. Yes, in IT and communication to simplify, speed up. But again, it refers to the adoption of ministerial decisions, some are joint, presidential decrees. I was young, and I was old! I wonder whether we could legislate differently on this first priority, namely on-line electronic interconnection of all services, even in the urban sector. It's a little Sisyphus, that is, the situation. I told all the committees at the sittings for the hundreds of 50 organic posts, the creation of young people makes me a little sceptical, whether it really will thrive, given that it will draw from the regions and the respective agencies, which they themselves say are subordinated. Also, other Members have said so - an issue that has been particularly concerned with me - is the offsetting of fines paid in Articles 104 and 125, which states that in the event of offsetting, if the fines already paid exceed the amount of the fine, they are not being sought. I think that needs to be changed, because I will bring you a coarse example. Two twin brothers build from an arbitrary middle management in one area. One time after the fines, one makes adjustments and pays the fines, and the other says, "Not me, they didn't get caught. They got mixed up with the house and only saw yours." Now the twin he didn't pay, he'll pay much less than the other. And what is the sense of security, justice, of law to citizens? He's going for a walk! I was also concerned, dear Minister, with the transfer of funds from the Green Fund to the Ministry. I would like you again to tell us the procedure. What will be the criteria and how? So the Minister is going to make a ministerial decision and fund some OTAs? On what criteria? If you want, please explain it to me. I come to something I was discussing just now outside Athens with Mrs Karakosta, the SYRIZA rapporteur, about the planning. What I miss particularly from this draft law is a design of at least decades and I become very specific. For the tourism study of the Institute of SETE, the Association of Greek Tourism Enterprises says in July 2017 that due to delays in its institutionalisation, the new regional planning frameworks that have been completed for over one to three years are at risk of becoming informal, all legislative steps must be taken immediately, so that all this work we have done as a society, as a state, will not go lost and in money will cost us as well. There is also no provision and a way of dealing with large tourist investments. So we hear Greek and our minds go to all these delays, at all the gray points, in all the vague areas, I would like this draft law to put some axes, some rules on large investments in tourism and not just. Transfer build-up factor. Well, Athens has ten thousand neoclassicals of the 19th and 20th century. Most are rheumatism, abandoned, with many heirs, you don't find any point. If we now had the opportunity, the transfer of the building coefficient would also be made in terms of compensation for the beneficiaries and timetables, with simple steps, so as to release this potential real estate and cultural property that each city has - I said Athens, so I mentioned it - so that the owners can take advantage of them and be able to exploit them. arbitrary. I have a special issue here. There is a recent Ice Branch case law on the so-called "existent building", which can be transferred, being arbitrary remains unexistent and also forms part of a transaction, things I would say unnaturally. So what does case law say? A building without a building permit which was manufactured after 31 March 1983, which has not produced an autopsy report, i.e. characterized by the city offices, shall be considered as non-existent and shall be permitted to be transferred with absolute validity. There is no arbitrary, however, that can be transferred. If you understand it and your logic accepts it, I won't accept it. That is why I say that Article 92 adds that the unauthorised construction, the overriding construction, must be arbitrary. Ladies and gentlemen, I come to a few of the amendments, which I shall say two words and close. Amendment No 1269 on the extension of the cemeteries. And here's Sisyphus again, allowing them to expand because they've obviously saturated. I understand, but with what environmental studies? With what environmental studies and how? And who's gonna devise them? And who's gonna pay for them? The municipality? That's it. Ioannina Ecclesiachi, then, my village, with thirty inhabitants, what environmental study will it do, which are all pro-government people? I also do not agree with the possibility given by this amendment to the President of the RAE for direct assignments. That is why I am against it, so we shall vote against it. We shall be voting in favour of the amendment to Stuttgart for the construction of hybrid power and district heating stations. Very positive yes. They have a very active local society and a municipal authority. We must stand by them and be Ai Stratis as well as Tilos in another energy model for the rest of the cities the islands and regions of Greece. We are voting against Amendment No 1297. Why is this amendment doing so? It repeals the requirement that the draft concessions with their annexes be contained in the tendering documents. Do you remember the fuss we had done - and it had been a year ago, I think in a committee - then the annexes that did not come from the Ministry of Finance, which public-sector companies would or wouldn't? We are also voting against this amendment. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish - I would sincerely wish that through this draft law I do not have any illusions - we could say that the arbitrary ends for Greece, what was built, built. No, I don't. However, a draft law will not solve that. It will also solve the public's mentality, which I think is largely eroded as an arbitrary perception of life. In any case, we shall vote in favour of the principle. I'll wait to see the Minister's answers. For the other amendments, I shall refer to my second. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-17-S1-commons.u33	Thank you very much for keeping time, Mr Amyras. I also hope that the speakers who are starting now will observe the time, because the circle of speakers is opening. We said the meeting would go by 22:00 to 22:30. I'll give the floor to three MPs on the list. Then the Minister will take the floor, Mr Stathakis, and then Mr Spirjis, for some amendments. However, we will first hear three speakers, so that we can have a view of what the world says underneath. The first is Mr. Mikeloganakis from SYRIZA. Come on, Mr. Colleague, your time is seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-17-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Madam President. The lack of Forestry, National Stock Exchange, the definition of hayalus, limiting water, archaeological sites, protected areas of natural beauty together, and all six, brought an enormous immunity to the structured environment. It recommends the Ministry now to the local government of the second degree the regional, regional and local authority of each region and the local office of each municipality. Building services remain only for licensing, while observatories supervise the five following committees: architecture councils, accessibility committees, arbitrary crisis committees, risk committees and arbitrary objection committees. The Monitoring Council for the Structured Environment is set up. In other words, social control that is all involved, local government, social and scientific bodies. Observations shall draw up reports to be submitted to the Ministry and the Committee of the Parliament. Regional collective bodies are set up, three types of licensing are created. Building permit is an individual administrative act. We're creating an electronic identity. The authorisation shall be granted by electronic procedure and an electronic connecting platform for services and bodies. It raises the issue of the pre-approval process, optional and sometimes compulsory. When the work is done beyond the licence, we have a licence to review under the responsibility of the engineer. Licence check by a different verifier. Engineers are controlled by inspectors. The bank shall be established as a digital application for the purpose of the exploitation and management of building rights. The rights arise from the matching of transferable builders' securities, entitled ‘Environmental Balance Contribution’. arbitrary. Date on July 28, 2011. Direct demolition of what is detected while erected. Fine to build from 30% to 100% of the objective value. Preservation fines up to demolition from 5% to 50%. Prolongation of submission for two years. Increase in doses of fines at the hundred doses clearly not in hays, forests, streams. Increase fines in sensitive environmental areas, reduce the payment of instalments to long-term unemployed, beneficiaries of solidarity allowance, repatriated, repatriated, third parties, multiples. Reduction of fines for arbitrary action from 1983 to 1993. For arbitrarily after 20 August, no tolerance. Reduction in out-of-project urban study, reduction in ground, mattresses, sophites. Reduction in stationary settlements below the five hundred inhabitants that are not beaches, near ski works and have taken place before 1993. Reduction in buildings that do not have city permits but have more than a hundred to five hundred square meters. A 20% reduction when they get into the town plan. Reduction to those who decide to legalise from 9 December 2017 until 8 June 2018. Building on stream-bound plots with closed section technical works. Free legalization in the supranational, church, old-day and private sports clubs. Reduction of 20% to those carrying the property from old regulations to new ones. Obligation to draw up static adequacy only to those that were classified as high priority, within the vulnerability card. Reduction of 10% from 20% in industrial building if it proceeds to legalisation from July 28, 2011 onwards. Exemption from the deletion of temporary structures in tourist areas. The arbitrary declared in the last three laws and not paid, will be recalculated by a new law and will be offset by what has been paid. Decrease in paradoxes. I would like Mr Spirtzis, our other Minister, to Mr Stathakis: You know Heraklion in his particular capacity as regards arbitrary matters. Two issues still need to be looked at in great detail. The first is the issue of indivisibility, which is a huge issue with regard to the city of Heraklion and is about thousands of properties. The second concerns public trespassers. I wanted to bring an amendment to this, but I was told that it is part of the Ministry of the Interior, so now I am dealing with the Ministry of Interior, if there is a solution to the trespass, which is a chronic and huge problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-17-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Mr. Micholiannakis. Mr Vlachos has the floor from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-17-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, once again the National Representation discusses a law on out-of-project construction, what we used to call the'strategic construction'. This is because the state - I speak over time - did not have the political will to put an end to the off-project construction. How could he have done that? If, for example, there were land uses throughout the country, in all areas, so that everyone could know where to do what and - the second - if we had extensions of town plans where they are requested by the Local Government by concise procedures and do not need five, ten, fifteen times and twenty and thirty years to include these areas in a plan. So where the state was absent and did not see the reality and the needs of local communities, the citizens took responsibility and built up in how they thought they thought they were. Always the state because there was no political will, it came afterward to bless what was done, as it were, by imposing fines. However, it has never tried to come out of the facts, to set a red line, to put a stop and ask all the stakeholders - and first of all - to respect this law, which has indeed given a solution, to have co-responsibility between the citizens, the Government, the police, the central administration and the state in order to keep this red line. In my opinion, Minister, there will continue to be outside building, as long as the state does not make the decision together with the red line, proceed to the next step, and send out the message that everything is over here somewhere. In order for it to be able to do so, however, the state must go ahead with the facts of land use and land integration in the plan, because instead of our interest in integrating in the plan unstructured areas, we are running to build built-up areas. As it was heard earlier, you know that this can't be done. There are distortions, there is a reality which we cannot deny. In Attica we have arbitrary towns and you see that there are such narrow streets that cannot be passed. Otherwise, they're part of the plan. What's that plan? I must say that in the same region, for twenty years the state has not wanted to see it at all. He had a complete denial. Many times, of course, some of the decisions of the Council of State - so is the Constitution - help to extend this loose end, since they do not want to see the reality. I would like to make a few comments, because the general position of the New Democracy has been developed by Mr Katsafada. I want to raise a few specific issues. The first issue, Minister, is what will happen to these buildings which are semi-finished and which are after 2011. We put a law as a limit, but it was unconstitutional. Should this date be somewhat updated to minimize these loose ends? They're real. There are buildings which we do not actually regulate today. The second point I wish to raise is the removal of Article 125 of Article 30 of Law 4178. There must be this setback. It is a process that has begun and cannot suddenly stop this. It also came to you in the Memorandum of the Hellenic Supreme Confederation, because it concerns a lot of people and very many families, and it is a necessity, that the state should follow on, for a regulation that was in existence and that the netting should not be abolished. We're not talking about returns. We understand that it is difficult, but a set-aside as foreseen by Mr von Wogau. 4178, I think, Minister, that it could continue. I would like to close by mentioning the three amendments which I have tabled and which, in my opinion, are really existing problems in many parts of the country and in Attica. The first is the suspension of special compensation protocols until the forest maps have been validated, i.e. the suspension of execution of the demolition protocols and the suspension of execution of both the special compensation protocols issued and the issuing of new ones, until the forest maps have been validated or the inclusion of those areas in the city plans. When the whole matter is pending, it is wrong for us to impose fines, which in the end, Minister, are not paid. The citizens do not have the opportunity, of course, to resort to justice, since they cannot give the advance and we do not see the problem. And what do we say? "This should be suspended until it is finalized, to announce the forest maps. If he is a member of a project, he has good, if not, then of course the law will be applied throughout the whole area." The second relates to the calculation of land as part of a project after the ratification of an implementing act. You know, in many areas there are presiding decrees that incorporate areas into a plan and, on the other hand, the Ministry of Finance tax these areas as if they had been built. We say that an area should be understood to be part of a project only after ratification of the implementing act. Because if, for five, ten, fifteen, twenty years, there is no building, since there will be no implementation, why should we tax this fellow citizen that he has been integrated into a plan since he has not been exploited? It was a country-- to say it like that-- it's still a field. When we move on to militarisation, he, of course, also contributes with all his powers. I conclude with the third amendment, which concerns indivisible integration into the draft law and regulation of the ownership regime. The amendment states that the alleged owner of the arbitrary construction or its user, who has a percentage indivisible on the whole field and who proves by means of intermittent acts such as: a statement in the National Register, a statement in the E9, evidence of payments to an insurer, IKA, etc., payment documents of a fine of arbitrary construction that have been established and paid to the relevant IKU, proof of the provision of PPC, will have the right to bring the rules into line with the law on the settlement, legalisation of constructions. The person referred to after completion of payment of the arbitrary construction fine shall be considered to be a real owner of the fine at a corresponding percentage indivisible on the relevant field, ensuring that a judgment has not been taken and may be entered into or corrected in the census as the owner of an indivisible property, but in particular as the owner of a vertical property. As a real owner, he will have the right to any act on this property. I believe that the three specific amendments give solutions to real problems throughout the country, and I think, Mr Minister, that this time has come to be accepted. Because if we do not start giving solutions and problems we move them over for the future, we are actually doing nothing. Just the citizens will wait for another arbitrary law, which will come after a few years, to give some more favourable solution to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-17-S1-commons.u37	I shall now give the floor to Minister Spirtzi for five minutes for the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-17-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, with the proposed amendment to the TSED, is part of, like other public services, Law 4413/2016 entitled ‘Resigning and executing concessions, in line with Directive 23/2014 of the European Parliament on the award of concessions’. This law is a harmonisation of national law in the European directive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-17-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Mr. Spirtzi. Mr. Synthrakis has the floor from the JRC for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-17-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Madam President. The SYRIZA Government - ANEL by taking on the new fair development tale, is trying to trick the workers into its anti-grassy policy in order to settle the allegedly arbitrary ones. This is a tax-driven measure and a tactic, since in fact the owners who, in their vast majority, are from the people's families will be asked to pay expensive fines even for additional contributions to land and money, without ultimately ensuring that they keep it, because they will not have to pay it or because it is predicated on banks. For arbitrary before 2011, you do, as you say, tempting facilities in doses. You're puncturing. With the new building identity traps, static adequacy study, the purchase of a surface balance by transferring a builder to exclude them from demolition, you lead them to a dead end with an even higher financial burden. A problem that New Democracy and PASOK have long maintained for decades continues to exist today by your SYRIZA - ANEL Government. That is why most of the articles in the bill are voted on together with the New Democracy, the PASOK and the other parties. It continues in this way to perpetuate the hostage of the people's families. This also results from the depreciation of small property by banning legal acts and any transfer. Drive de facto to abandon north to banks and funds. However, whatever facilitations and propaganda tricks the government invents by prolonging the repayment period, the working people's families cannot meet that requirement. They're already kneeling and helpless to pay for this. The government's objective through this bill is not only collective. He's a punisher. He is punishing for forty thousand people in Heraklion Prefecture and many other thousands of people throughout Greece. It stimulates the terror of workers in the logic 'after you have been illegal, you have to pay'. It thus relieves all governments of the city itself of its responsibilities for the residential town anarchy as a component of capitalist development, for the fact that local housing projects have never been implemented. Alongside this blackmail, espionage identity, the government expects to clean up the small-scale property which the people's families have received with so much effort and blood, and this on behalf of big capital. It thus facilitates the auctioning and taxation of immovable property, which we will see in the very near future. For the arbitrariness and lack of popular housing programs exclusively responsible are the governments of PASOK and New Democracy, who neither wanted nor could plan integrated urban settlements in Heraklion and other parts of the country, and in line with the needs of the municipalities in good time the necessary extensions of the city plan. Neither can your government and wants to solve the problem. The failures to implement the city plans since 1958 have always been afflicted by the property regime of large property and the great interests that have not left the design of urban and urban fabric, the definition of free spaces, where schools, hospitals and other social infrastructure must be built. It is the same policies that devastated the countryside and brought people to the cities. They forced him to buy and build a plot outside the city plan. The capitalist system you all serve, by nature, cannot solve it, because it is based on unregulated construction and development. Its basic principle is the commercialisation of people's homes and land, as well as the commercialisation of basic social goods such as education and health. It was deliberately maintained and continued to maintain the unacceptable status of the off-built project, which led thousands of people in the partition to build an arbitrary home to live. With one hand governments and local authorities carved their backs by giving them promises, and with another they put the knife in their throats, threatening them by demolition, if they did not grant land-based roads, hiking paths, if they did not pay PPC, water and sewerage. They even dragged them to court. Some were rich, especially those who solved and tied up in the licensing or permanentization mechanism for arbitrary buildings. Large-seasoners have trespassed illegally and continue to trespass at the moment we are talking about, in the name of tourist development, cavaliers, closing beaches, expanding their hotels illegally. Some eagle big - miners and builders, builders, middlemen and other scientists who have exploited for many years the need for thousands of poor people to obtain cheap housing, first home and cheap roofs, have built customer relationship mechanisms to have them in hand. They should be heavy on the axe and not 'grow them oil'. You're taking them out of oil. "Get oil" means the big-time masters that have been illegal, on the pretext that they have the EOT seal. The Scientific Service of the House points out this. You are trying to convince the people that by means of the regulations on the criteria for the amount of the fine you are applying a fair measure or that by extending payment you make more favourable facilities than the previous ones. There are some governmental and opposition MPs, local actors, in front of the universal outcry of thousands of families to blur water through supposedly proposals, better amendments of the law before it is voted on. Ladies and gentlemen, today it is necessary for the working people's movement not to accept any rules that trap the people. They owe neither 500 nor 250 nor 1 euro. They have been taken twice and three times by taxes, construction companies with second-quality materials, PPC and many others. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] With its organized struggle it must impose the abolition of fines, tax the big capital and the large real estate, the big businessmen, the big businessmen, the bankers and the large-scale owners of land and dwellings that have been treasured by this situation. With the responsibility and expenditure of the State to ensure the main residence for each working folk family, covering all its needs, thus resolving the problem of the designation of thousands of people's families as arbitrary settlements. Require the legalisation of first home buildings in the context of a comprehensive plan covering the social and housing needs of families. Directly proceed with the necessary infrastructure in the anti-military neighbourhoods, earthquake protection, transport infrastructure, sewerage, energy networks, schools and so on. Ensure the right to transfer and sell their properties. Immediately extend town plans based on social needs so as to stop arbitrary construction and degradation of life. I agree, Madam President, with a resolution of eleven bodies from the Labour Unions, rural clubs and residential clubs, who say exactly what I mentioned earlier. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Emmanuel Syntrakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice.]] Finally, for the workers and the people, the problem of housing cannot be solved entirely within the framework of the capitalist system, where the trade in land, the unregulated construction, the lack of central planning, the unbearable speculation of the great interests, lead to the development of monster cities. It takes a struggle not to pass these measures and to be claimed by the people of another type of power with central planning, where the land will be a people's residence and it will ensure cheap residence for all the people. But this requires a people's economy, a socialisation of the means of production aimed solely at helping these people's needs. The earth and its use to be a social good and not a merchandise. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-17-S1-commons.u41	Mr Cavalellas has the floor now from the Centron Association.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-17-S1-commons.u42	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law on the control and protection of the structured environment should first of all be aimed at addressing the primary causes that led to this creation of an anarchist and arbitrary structured environment in our country. The new institutional tools created by the draft law are: the Building Environment Observatory, which will deal exclusively with the control of the structured environment, the Building and Commonwealth Rights Bank, the electronic urban identity, the new way of issuing city permits, the electronic recording of the arbitrary which has been approved since July 28, 2011. After a thorough study of the law introduced, we have first come to some positions that we propose as additions. The first proposed addition therefore relates to the provisions of Article 97 of the draft law on the structured environment. In accordance with the last subparagraph of Article 97(2), it may therefore be suspended and exempted from demolition of construction or parts of buildings, etc., provided that their use is not prohibited by the urban provisions on land use in force in the area referred to in Article 51(1) of Law 4030/2011 or is prohibited at the time of issue of the building permit or at the time of establishment of the arbitrary use. In many cases within the area situated the property, the building block, i.e. there are different uses due to the specific urban provisions applicable on each road, for example, a basic road network, a limit for an approved plan, etc. and the uses to be determined in respect of the buildings to be maintained. In this case it has been considered that a single use should be established throughout the building block, as described in the practical processing of 313/2001. As a result of all these urban arrangements it is on the same building block that different uses apply to existing buildings. Accordingly, and in order to allow for a change in use of buildings already in place at the time of submission of a settlement declaration, by way of derogation from the applicable provisions of use within the area of the property, it is proposed in the above subparagraph to add ‘or it shall not be prohibited if, at the time of submission of the settlement declaration, a use has been legally installed by way of derogation from the existing ones in the area’. We also have a second proposed addition, which relates to Article 127, concerning the continued use of buildings. The following considerations and considerations are given in this regard. In accordance with Article 51(4) of L.4178/2013, it is laid down that where, in general or specific provisions and regulations in the legislation in force, the term ‘existing uses or existing uses’ is indicated for the adoption of administrative acts relating to the performance of construction work or the operation of that use, it is also laid down that it possesses the uses provided for by building permits issued and covered by the presumption of legality. In many cases, therefore, new uses for the properties of the area, other than those currently in force, are to be introduced, but no specific provision is to be included by introducing a transitional provision for the fate of immovable property to which they are legally different under the earlier rules. In this respect, it has been considered that the existing uses are not affected by the newer regime, but continue as the specific use of the building for which the relevant building permit is granted is linked to the construction specifications applicable under the law and to the configuration of the premises. The texts of these regulations are often not expressly stated that the existing uses of building permits and not included in the new uses continue to apply regardless of whether they operated in the building at the time the new provisions were adopted. Therefore, and as a result of these incomplete formalities, it is important to create problems in the interpretation and application of the existing regulations on the continued uses of buildings. Subsequently, it is proposed by us to remove the doubts regarding the interpretation and application of the above provisions, to add to the second subparagraph of Article 51(4) of Law 4178/2013, which will read as follows: ‘Where in the previous provisions establishing or changing uses no specific provision is included by introducing a transitional provision on the fate of immovable property to which they are legally subject under the previous regulatory regime, those existing uses, as defined in the previous subparagraph or referred to as existing installations, are not affected by the new scheme but continue regardless of whether they operated at the time of adoption of those provisions.’ We look after each other and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-17-S1-commons.u43	Independent MEP George - Dimitrios Karras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-17-S1-commons.u44	Madam President, the draft legislation under discussion is in the form of a'multi-code' because it refers to provisions on the issue of building permits, it refers to rules of arbitrary nature, it deals with procedural matters relating to the transfer of the building coefficient and a series of other technical regulations, mainly of a technical nature. In this sense, therefore, and also by listening to the rapporteurs of the parties and colleagues who have spoken about the draft law, all I have to say is that it will be judged by its implementation in practice, so that we can see the results, whether or not it can bring the desired result, given that in particular the issue of arbitrary is something that has aroused the country, not only from an environmental point of view, but particularly from a social policy point of view. I therefore hope that it will be successful and overcome if you also want the problems of controlling legality, which are expected, as in any new legislation, to be relevant to these issues. I would like to say a little bit, in view of the minimum time I have, of certain provisions which I believe need to be commented on. I am therefore taking Article 98 into account, which refers to horizontal and vertical ownership arrangements in relation to the multi-dimensional system. He's got right setups inside. However, I would say that it needs a small supplement and that is why I have already tabled an amendment, which I will explain to you what it wants to include. In addition to the arrangements on co-ownership, either horizontally or vertically, there are too many cases - and I know that empirically - that we have project errors during construction, where spaces appear as annexes to other joint-ownerships that have been occupied by co-ownership, and we have an installation of either machinery or boiler room or anything else. I therefore propose with my amendment - and I would like you to stand by it - that when the arbitrary constructions or changes in the use of co-ownership have been carried out in a standardised annex of horizontal or vertical co-ownership, the annex can be disconnected and the annex can be transferred to the horizontal or vertical ownership of its own, without the need for the other joint-owners to be involved. I would ask you to note that it is the amendment with a general number of 1299 and a number of 151, which I have tabled in this direction. Another issue that has concerned me, because there is a lot of talk lately, is that we are rushing to develop the country. You will allow me to dwell on Article 129, which concerns the extension of geothermality contracts - it is well known that geothermality is part of the Mining Code and has an exclusive right to investigate and exploit public - low temperatures, which are also extended. So I think of a previous regime, which has been in force since 1985. What happened in 1985? A geothermality law came in. They were the first nuggets to move. This law allowed, with the philosophy of the time, only the largest geothermal fields of Greece - I am referring to Lesvos, Kimolos, Milos, Polyagos, the Cyclades in general - to PPC, with a duration of twenty-five years and an extension right. While we could have solved the issue, which today is crucial, of the non-interconnected islands, at least in the Cyclades, with the exploitation of geothermality where we would not currently be burdening a large part of the population, unfortunately - it is not important that the reasons - were left unexploited to date. The government - and here I want to lie to her - in 2015 by law extended PPC's leases so that investments can be made. To date, however, nothing has been done and the issue remains. From the research I have done I see that there may be difficulties, because the consent of local societies must also be achieved, but also has to have rewarding benefits. It is therefore time to address this issue to change the original system of 1985, which does not provide for means of compensation for local communities. Plus, I see something else. With the problems that PPC has today, PPC seeks to enrich its vault through the subsidiary PPC RENEWABLES by introducing, supposedly, a strategic investor. The strategic investor, however, will come to overuse or come to help the local society and the economy? I have reservations on this point, because unfortunately today, whether we want it or not, these issues have been devalued and I therefore do not expect the best possible outcome. My proposal is this: Because I feel the need to relieve PPC's consumers of payments that you will allow me to call 'hards', such as services of general interest, particularly in the non-interconnected islands, because we still have to use oil after so many years, without an alternative option, either to the trunk of Greece or to provide local needs through geothermality, through wind parks, through everything, I think it is time not to stay on the extensions of leases and wait for the blessing, but to get to the point where this wealth is being exploited, because tomorrow we will hear the complaints again that PPC's account has been made available for greenhouse gases, it has, it has,, and will remain, this issue. I want to finish this and fill in the following. Yes, it is a good amendment to the hybrid stations in Agios Efstratios. It will be an example. But don't expect the results of St. Efstratios. Proceed directly to the exploitation of all the wealthy sources of the country. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-17-S1-commons.u45	Mr. Diaras has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-17-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we must admit some truths about the structured environment. Truly the first: the laws, town planning, landlocked, building, GOK and NOK so far did not lead to human cities, nor did they protect the environment. From the result, judging as a state and politician, but also as scientists of all specialties, we can say that we have failed. Specifically, what was built up until the implementation of the 1983 Trinidad Act is an example of avoidance. The Tritsis Act introduced the contribution to land and to money with social criteria for the creation of public spaces and infrastructures. The problem now lies not only in legislation but in poor implementation or non-implementation of legislation. Urban studies in many cases, in most cases, must reach the completion of the implementing acts to be implemented, and that is why decades and even 20 years have passed. And the needs for housing combined with loose surveillance mechanisms led the poor people to build arbitrary nights - the known smuggling - and the superintendents to build entertainment centers, business spaces on saints and beaches or villas with refreshment licenses. I am referring to the second Himitto zone we know that a former Minister had taken a villa license in the way of the refreshment. Really second. In the design and control of city building and settlements, dial the cone and swallow the camel. In other words, if there were any arbitrary complaints from neighbors, the building was normally interrupted for an infringement of a half-metre or for an overrun of 0,8 of the measure, while at the same time the building was arbitraryly defined as buildings mainly outside the project, but also within a project. With the 1985 GOK and various ministerial decisions, control was provided for in all the built-up buildings and, in fact, in three phases, in the middle of the year. The measure at that time was never implemented. The ministerial decision introduced a 10% sample check and then 5% of the buildings at the time of receipt. This has never been implemented either. Finally, we have come to the conclusion that the electricity supplies are made with statements by engineers and owners, that the buildings have been built by applying the official study and the laws. The rule was that the statements of Law 105 were false statements. There were, of course, many people who were right to say. Halfways were closed, halfways became main-purpose spaces and all forms of arbitrariness continued. There was, that is, general lawlessness in the knowledge of the state. The transfer agreed to tax the State on arbitrary and closed half-way spaces. We'll remember. In taxation we accepted it, but it wasn't legal. Really third. The greatest harm to the environment of the structured and unstructured was done and still done with the outside construction. Cities of entire, extensive areas, built without a plan and on many nights. Heraklion Crete, Luca, Laureate and, in general, Attica are typical examples. The non-project construction leads to a dispersion of the construction at the cost of economic and environmental costs. Why? Firstly, because access road networks are required, the waste of huge land area per inhabitant that is transformed from arable land to a road, asphalt or copper road. Secondly, PPC networks and other networks are required, multiplication of network length, which means construction costs and huge loss of electricity during transportation. Third, water networks. The leaks are proportional to the length of the pipelines, but the length of the pipelines in such cases is multiple than in a normal town with a design. Fourthly, the collection of waste at multiple costs. Fifth, increase in travel by IX and not by public transport, since they cannot scorpions, individual buildings to be served by transport or even by school cars, etc. Sixthly, in the case of sewerage, it is impossible to build a network, thus having absorbent berths and pollution of the groundwater horizon. And there are a lot of other factors that really are inexperienced. So we have wasted fertile land, aesthetic abuse of the landscape, ecological - environmental degradation, obstacles to any spatial planning since, as other colleagues have already said, any attempt is required to be adjacent to some other scorpions, etc. And it's hard now in an existing state and dispersal of buildings to make urban planning. Now, as I mentioned all this, I wanted to say that this great evil should be overcome. Of course, during the period of crisis, building activity is mainly in tourist areas, small and large hotels and villas rented. And while we are talking about the planned areas, reconstruction is done out of plan, without rules, no streets, no shared spaces, no beaches, no parking areas, no sewering networks, no rhythm, no aesthetics of the ensembles. In other words, a chaotic situation arises, with a constant deterioration in the environment. The consequences now are mainly environmental and functional, but tomorrow they will be economical and multiplely destructive. We're going to get more damage than was the case with Spain. We'll have a tourist collapse after the environmental collapse. Soon, Minister, we must put order in the off-planning structure. I think it's the first thing we have to do if we want to change things in relation to the environment. After this analysis, I hope that the two colleagues' amendment, Mrs Karakosta and Mrs Theopevtou, do not go any further, calling for a greater spread of buildings in the outside building project. Issues such as what the amendment puts may serve today some citizens who want to make better use of their farm, but with the greatest spread of buildings we are heading in the wrong direction. Transportation of structure factor: With this bill we can improve existing towns by energising the urban transfer tool as a factor of structure. What are we going to do? Increase public spaces in each municipality, protection and indirect financial assistance for restoration of maintained buildings. Here we have an issue that the judges will understand in the Council of State? Will the urban issues, the benefits of this tool transfering the structure factor, understand? We must not see the question of transferring the structural factor appallingly. How are we going to implement the urban tool to save or increase public spaces in cities like Athens? Due to the fact that they have large construction factors and fully built areas that will transfer the structural factor, for example, from the Municipality of Athens, if we are confined to the municipality only, as required by the S.E...Huh? This will only be done when the balance and density is considered not at municipal level, but in wider urban units, whether municipalities or neighbouring regional units. Then, yes, the issue will be resolved and we can say that this tool will be beneficial. It is therefore a question of transferring the structural factor to be applied in practice, with a real benefit to the city, with incentives to the municipalities and with a broad spirit of benefit to the community as a whole. The city center is a centre for the suburbs. We can't see the municipalities around metropolitans like autonomous, separate islands. The transfer of the structure factor must also take place for the major cities of Athens and Thessaloniki in the border regions. I would still like to stand in two parts of the bill. I think, Minister, in Article 49, that graduate engineers of the TEI have been forgotten. They are not members of the TEU, but they are members of the TEU. The ETUC has sent us all a note. If they are not registered, they will not be able to pursue their profession under their professional rights. Good or bad have these professional rights. I think it is unfair that they should not be entered in this bulletin. I also wanted to say that we should make a reduction in paradoxes, where we have special categories of citizens, for example those who have up to EUR 200 per month, namely solidarity income. In addition, with regard to the issue raised by POMIDA in relation to the involvement of those who are autonomous from central heating, that they must have a small share of oil consumption, even 10% or 15% of consumption, I think that this is for two reasons: firstly, because in all the regulations so far, 33% have been involved. So you can't go there to zero. Secondly, the entire building in terms of insulation totals as a box and therefore there is an interaction between those who are closed or those who are autonomous of those who operate. Besides, if too many leave and only the poorest, who can't commit separatism, are left alone, they won't be able to light up any central heating at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-17-S1-commons.u47	Mr Giannakis, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor. Please be consistent in keeping time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-17-S1-commons.u48	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about the environment, whether it is structured or inconsistent, we usually all show sensitivity, we use heavy phrases, fine words, and we do theoretical analyses, without most of us realising that it is the space we live in, develop, operate, that it is our own life and that is how we should be dealing with it. This is, in my opinion, to stop susceptibility being selectively monopolized. I say these because the title of this bill is very ambitious, since it promises control and protection of the structured environment. He actually promises - and we have heard it from Members of the majority - that the problem should be tackled in a holistic manner. But neither control nor environmental protection will exist with this law nor holistic treatment, and I will explain why. Of course, there are positive provisions, such as the introduction of electronic procedures, which can minimise the phenomenon of bureaucracy and corruption. We must not forget, however, that these procedures had also been legislated in the past on the basis of a Samara government. The Observatory is in the right direction, because we need such structures and such observatories. But it is the creation of a central observatory, and it is quite different that you enter it. Why? What do you suggest? I will not go into the clipboard of the design, but in parallel with the Observatory you are setting up sub-regions, more committees, sub-committees, councils and sub-Councils. Increasing red tape and duplication of responsibilities for this structure. It is characteristic that, in order to achieve your objectives, seventy-nine new infrastructure and observatory control services are needed, a total of sixty-eight councils of architects and fourteen accessibility committees. My fellow engineers who will be involved in this process will not be compensated, will they not need logistics to carry out their duties? What is the cost to be incurred? You're not telling us. At a time when we all agree in this House that state spending must be reduced, in order at some point to reduce the tax lot against citizens, you, with various terrain, are swelling them. You ask the citizens directly to pay either for the legalisation of their arbitrary or for the identity of the building, and as a state your own obligations you refer them to the invisible future. And I say this because there are no binding timetables, there are no proportionate studies, there is no accounting for State obligations. Briefly I mention that it is necessary to adopt twenty-seven ministerial decisions, fourteen joint ministerial decisions, one presidential decree and countless circulars necessary for the full implementation of the provisions. You carry additional obligations to the municipalities and regions and at first glance, you are doing well in the context of decentralising their powers and strengthening their activities, but you do not guarantee them the necessary resources. Do you honestly think that the money collected from the settlements will go to the municipalities, the region and the Green Fund? It is utopia, when you have scratched the bottom of the available finances of local government, hospitals and almost all operators and any available resources you have transferred to the Bank of Greece. In every way, you seek centralised and fully controlled management in all areas of public life. For the creation of the Earth Bank and the arrangements for the transfer of a coefficient, I have two comments to make: firstly, that the framework for its creation had entered with L.4178/2013 and, secondly, that the system must be electronic and personal in order to eliminate any possibility of manipulation, corruption and agreements under the table. Now, for the identity of a building: The building industry as a whole has essentially ended in the years of the crisis. Whole categories of workers have led to unemployment and despair. Can build more taxes? To the owners, having declared the property in the E9, they have issued an energy certificate, they have paid HICPs - he, of course, that you would have abolished - unthinkable taxes, now with this bill you add them the identity of the building. You are creating problems, not only in drawing up contracts, but even in leases, since you anticipate not only the initial inspection and recording of all the buildings in the country, but also the compulsory re-control every five years. So new fees, new payments, new fees, new charges, new charges. The electronic issue of licences was already institutionalised in November 2014 on the basis of a government of Samaras and only the signature was left. The Technical Chamber had already prepared the electronic system and could work it immediately. There were thirty-two lost months. I wish he could move on, even now, without delay. As far as the arbitrariness is concerned, although there are also positive provisions which solve some problems, it remains the most important thing to note that all these burdens which have fallen on the citizens' backs have nullified the citizens' interest and financial capacity to legitimise any arbitrary constructions in their real estates, no matter how delightful provisions we adopt. Minister, there is also arbitrary, which is not due to landlords and owners, but is due to poorly issued permits from towns. In that case, with the fines, what are you going to do? Let us create two-speed citizens, those who were integrated under previous legislation and paid more in fewer doses and those who are now joining. A fair treatment would be if the difference were offset with the ENPI or other tax obligations of the citizens. Many provisions of this bill will prove inappropriate and ineffective, and most likely we will continue to create problems, such as in the past, and will continue for that reason for future generations to protest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-17-S1-commons.u49	Now the Minister has the floor. Mr Stathakis, you have the floor for twenty minutes, instead of eighteen, which you are normally entitled to, because you also have to talk about the amendments, but hopefully not to exhaust them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-17-S1-commons.u50	Okay. Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are bringing to the vote is not another arbitrary bill, the logic of those that have been preceded, which have known results, and I do not want to stand critical of it. It is differentiated on matters of substance, philosophy and targeting. Firstly, it introduces very important areas to tackle a problem as a whole, it is part of a wider strategy that is being attempted on the part of the government. So it is first - and so we have to deal with it - in the spatial planning bill, which we voted on just before Christmas, which stipulates that municipalities undertake to draw up local spatial plans. This will be the basis of Greece's spatial planning in the years to come. Municipalities in their current form cover 100% of the territory and at the same time create a new dynamic framework in which topics in this bill can also be addressed - the Earth Bank and many other issues - creating other possibilities for municipalities to move forward in these areas. It is also linked to the suspension of the forest maps, an act carried out by that government which demarcates the country's forest potential. It forms part of what is imminent and will follow, delimitation of the saint, beaches, etc. It is therefore part of the property register and the bill that will immediately come to Parliament for the single owner of the real estate register that will incorporate the current institutions of the Stock Exchange and the mortgages and create a new scope for the completion of the Stock Exchange, with the ambitious objective that we have, in 2020, to cover 70% of the territory. It is therefore part of a plan, which has very structured steps, elements, legislation and with this philosophy I would also like to address this draft law. This bill does two things. The first thing: Define how the authorisation and control procedure is done. This introduces a lot of innovation and I'm going to stand on it. The second thing: it settles the issue of arbitrary, keeping several of the provisions of previous law - I do not think this is a field of confrontation - and trying to improve a number of issues, in relation to the previous law. Stay on the first point, on what innovations it introduces, on the licensing process. The first and basic section: For the first time, there is a distinction between the authority issuing the building licence - the towns of the municipalities - from the beginning, which controls the application and the procedure. The authorisation from the control is therefore separated. This is a basic incision. The second competence shall be transferred to the observers. I shall then focus on the criticism that has been made of new bureaucratic structures, but on the starting point it must be clear. With regard to the body that had both powers and which we believe has had various problems, the step of separation between licensing and control creates a much more reliable way of operating our urban legislation. The second thing he does is that it over-simplifies the process of issuing and controlling building licences. What does he actually do? It says that a series of documents are being submitted in the city. This creates, within a month, the necessary conditions for the construction process to begin. Subsequently, the verification of the manufacturing process, as regards the compatibility of the building, with which the man who has promised it, is carried out by private engineers, but who are in the register of the auditors of a structured environment, at different stages and beyond, the authority which issued the licence uses the standard of sampling. It is therefore a matter for the Observatory, which, from now on, exercises control, to identify compatibility or not with existing legislation, to identify arbitrary ones, to classify them, to impose fines and so on. So this separation is essential. I would like to make a reference to the criticism of whether and whether this simplification of the procedure will produce a new generation of arbitrary ones. First, the engineer, who takes over the licence, is responsible. It is also responsible for not complying with the procedures provided for, and for which there is a specific administrative procedure against the engineer. Therefore, the engineer is responsible for keeping what has been licensed for. Secondly, if there is ambiguity, any ambiguity or insecurity as to what the specifications of the building should be in that area at that time, there is the mechanism of pre-approval. In other words, you can appeal to the Planning to approve this, which is thought to have to be built. Thirdly, there are a lot of insurance handles. I repeat, they are successive checks, and others, which prevent the idea of simplification being identified with the production of arbitrary ones. On the contrary, we think that simplification will weaken this possibility, by now triggering far more institutions and mechanisms that are facing this problem. The third innovation concerns the new institutional tools, which it introduces, such as the Bank for the Rights of Building and Commonwealth. I repeat that the Bank must now see it in the enlarged context, which the potential of the municipalities, which are larger municipalities, are urban, rural and so on. We recognise the problem, which exists and has been highlighted for Attica and Thessaloniki, as the Right Bank must seek space and at the same time allocate rights within the municipality. The second innovation, the second institutional tool, is the electronic identity of the building and the electronic recording of the arbitrary, built after 28 July 2011, the date, the part in which it is delimited before and after. I'm going to be a little in the sections and the notion of the Structured Environment Observatory. The Building Environment Observatory is a new institution, a monitoring mechanism, recording, checking, taking measures to protect the structured environment and, as you know, we structure it at three levels: At its level, we have never seen a prefecture, at the regional level and at the Ministry of the Environment and Energy. The last part is because we want to decentralise the activities, but also to maintain the constitutional requirement, in terms of this competence, which belongs to the central state. Therefore, the RIS Observatory remains a key institution and at the same time decentralises as far as possible in the region and at regional level the operation of the Observatorys. We are doing the same - decentralizing - at the councils of architecture. I would say that we did this by instigating the one single or centralised system that we had in the past. They sent us the statistics, how much it takes to the Central Council, the Central Council, the Central Bank of Cyprus, to handle cases in Attica, the islands, the rest of Greece, and we thought this statistic, which says that between two and a half years is the average to deal with issues, is excessive. That is why we have made decentralisation in regional areas, that is to say, regionally, which will manage a large volume of cases and issues, for which there is no reason for the Central Council to be charged and to create such a long delay. Therefore, the central idea remains in the Building Environment Observatory and in the Councils and we maximise decentralisation. I answer the question of making more or less red tape. The answer is that this decentralisation is coming to solve the problem of long-term bureaucracy and not to add institutions, officials or expenditure. The way in which staff needs are met will result from a weakening of the decentralised administration by transfer of personnel and so on. For resources, as foreseen by the law, a large influx will come from fines to arbitrary structures. It is planned that the funds will go to the region, the municipality and the rest will go to the Green Fund. The Bank of Rights shall be established as a digital application by the RIS. The main purpose is to manage building rights for the protection of the environment, of course, and of the public interest, but these rights arise from the matching of transfer titles of a build-up factor with environmental balance contribution securities resulting from environmental and spatial arrangements. Therefore, the central aim is to create, of course, a free public space, where necessary, to maintain and restore buildings of cultural heritage - the main aim - and to achieve the upgrading of town and environmentally-friendly areas. Now, the electronic building identity - to clarify it once again - is not mandatory. The electronic identity of a building will be built in the transfer of a building, heritage and so on. Therefore, only during the transfer operation will an electronic building identity be acquired. They, of course, precede - and there it is compulsory - the public buildings and where there is a meeting of persons. Now, I am entering the second section, where we are doing two basic things: the first is that we are reducing the fines - that is a fact - in relation to the previous law. In view of the problem of equal treatment, however, we are maximising by transitional provisions the transfer of those who have not completed the repayment or the arrangements in the previous law, the new law with the most favourable regulations. The second thing we do is that we are focusing on two additional vulnerable social groups, in relation to the previous law, which was MEDIs and various other social groups. We added two more. The first group is the long-term unemployed and the second is the families and people who receive social solidarity, so two particularly vulnerable groups, where the fines imposed there are extremely small. As to how arbitrary construction is being dealt with, let me say this: for the old arbitrary ones, a series of arrangements is envisaged which in fact have been extended for two years and the instalments of the fine are increased from EUR 80 to EUR 100. The prohibitions on subsistence, which are found in hays, forests, streams, common areas, archaeological sites, etc., remain in force. Fines are increased in environmentally sensitive areas, areas of NATURA, traditional settlements, etc. The fines for arbitrary dwellings manufactured between 1983 and 1993 are reduced. For arbitrary in off-project areas pending the issue of urban study, arbitrary underground and indoor spaces, we can unify the factor. There are a few other comments I will make tomorrow morning. Now, in the second part, while there is the idea of normalising the old arbitrary, in the newest arbitrary after 28-7-2011, there is one - I would say - dragon dealing on the part of the proposed law. For arbitrary operations, identified by the Observatory during the construction phase, there is a direct demolition of resources from the fines themselves. For buildings located, once erected, the fine to build from 30%, which is currently increased to 100% of the objective value of the building, while in environmentally sensitive areas at 110%. Preservation fines, for as long as they are maintained, are increased at very high rates, from 5% to 50%. At the same time, all fines may be reduced for those who decide, at the expense of these fines, to demolish their buildings, so they will not pay fines. constructions which are of a temporary nature are excluded. The existing industrial buildings, which are in line with the existing urban planning provisions, are also being incorporated for the first time and have been made available for the first time, but have not been settled. For these buildings, 10% will be paid, from 20% to the rest of the buildings, of the fine to build, of conservation. In order to stimulate integration and industrial production, there is an additional incentive in this respect. I'm reminiscing. There are two sections: firstly, the way in which urban planning is to take place, and secondly, the regulation of arbitrary construction. I would like to conclude with a few comments, which have been raised by the speeches and which go through the bill. One category concerns property. I repeat this once again - and we have also told the committee - that the bill is far from any attempt to intervene in property rights. We believe that this is a dangerous pervert, which will raise constitutional issues. These are regulated by the Civil Code and by another area of our legislation. We too, as a regional policy, cannot interfere in this. Secondly, how practicable the bill is. As regards ministerial decisions, a significant number of necessary ministerial decisions were listed. I would remind you that we have put in the bill, within the body, that all ministerial decisions must have been adopted within six months.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-17-S1-commons.u51	What if they're not issued?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-17-S1-commons.u52	If they're not issued... You will admit that it is a strong stimulus. However, the idea remains. This is a piece of legislation, which lasts two years. Obviously, any delay in adopting ministerial decisions or others makes the law inactive. As long as the law is two years old, you can imagine that there is no question of delay, which has nothing to do with the law. I am addressing two clear questions which have been raised from the point of view of Officerial Response. I responded to the first one. We believe there will be direct decisions. At the same time, within the planning of the municipalities, there will be greater flexibility for the transfer of a building factor than in the past. I shall reply to the second one, on the resources of the Green Fund from the old and new medium-term. I would remind you that it was 5% in the first memorandum, 2.5% in the second, if I remember correctly. We intend to return, after the current programme has been completed - which you will agree with us that it will be July 2018 and that it is a common wish for everyone - on this issue with an enlarged capacity to play the role that we all want. I will close with the issues that have to do with the amendments. Let me remind the ministers. One concerns the energy islands, Tilos, Ikaria and Ai Strati. They are important amendments which liberalise the projects that are mature and complete and which seek to have an environmental upgrade of the energy system, primarily in the direction of autonomy in the production of energy from the islands with the main energy source of the RES. The second is the CAP. I think it's a typical matter. Also a typical issue is the direct assignments by the President of the RAE, who put the limit of EUR 20,000, with this amendment. Legislative improvements to the draft law are seventy, and that's enough. I don't think any of them are particularly important to stand by. Everyone improves the existing articles without actually entering anyone. I reserve for tomorrow morning to place myself in detail on the amendments tabled by Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-17-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Minister. Mr Maniotis now has the floor from the Democratic Reconciliation.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-17-S1-commons.u54	Ladies and gentlemen, our rapporteur, Mr Dimitris Konstantopoulos, has also been placed at the outset in the articles on the bill. I will continue where Mr. Dimitris Konstantopoulos left off. I would like to take you, Minister, to take you a transatlantic journey next to Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras, who is visiting Chicago, Washington, visits the United States. Why is the Prime Minister going to the United States? We've been told he's going to bring investments. What is more reasonable than a Prime Minister of a European country? Remember in September 2015, at that debacle of Mr. Tsipras on the television show with President Bill Clinton in CNN asking him: 'If an investor asks me about Greece where there is investment security, what should I answer to him?' Do you remember the Prime Minister's answer? If you were there, even worse. It was a debacle of Greece. I hope that this question will not be put to him today by the Prime Minister. And you know why? Because if 2015 was a little read, he could answer, based on what he received. And I will tell you what he has received and today there are no ones, because from an incredible ideal you have lost them, you have abolished them. American investor with 100 million dollars asks the Greek Prime Minister: "Tell me, Prime Minister, where to invest, and what to the $100 million." What would a reasonable Prime Minister say? He would say to him: "First of all, I can answer you, because I have a spatial plan, I can answer you, because I have a land-use system, I can answer you, because I have an automated system that you can with the press of a key to know where it is allowed and I can answer you, because I have an electronic system that I also issue the building permits, if you want to build. If you want to invest in tourism, I can answer, because I also have spatial tourism." Now let's see what Mr. Tsipras received and what he destroyed. There were twelve regional spatial planning areas for the 12 regions of the country. Their final phase was delivered in January 2015. No one has yet been approved. All twelve regional spatial planning could have been approved, at the latest, April to May 2015. This explains why the SYRIZA Government - then opposition - in 2014 voted against the new Athens-Attica Regulatory Plan, which we brought for vote. He obviously voted against it because, among other things, he had Greek Airport, which apparently loves the government's words, but hates the actions. What else would an investor want besides spatial planning? A land-use system. Example: I want to build a transit centre. Is there a transit centre in Greece's land usage system? In 2104 we anticipated that this would also exist under the law. In 2016, the current government abolished the land-use system, and today the country, for three years, has no national land-use system. We use the 1987 Presidential Decree, thirty years back, because the government has not listened to us when we said: do you want to correct? Correct where you think it's wrong. Don't pull out the whole new system. He chose to abolish it and today the country continues to operate with the 1987 land usage system. And I stress something: Land use and spatial planning are not themes of certain specialized scientists. The design of the site, the regulation of the site is the heart of each government's investment and development initiative. Without spatial planning, there is no development in a country and there is no progressive reform. What else did the government have and they abolished it? What now reinstates, after abolishing it, the so-called institutional lines. To make this understandable: Instead of opening the three hundred drawers concerned in three hundred services - Forestry, Towns, Antiquities, Plans of Towns - to know in the particular section of interest what can be built, we had predicted registering all this in an automated geographical information system and by 2020, compulsory, all public services have passed it, namely, through the so-called institutional lines in such an automated system. You have abolished it, Minister, and you are bringing it back now and you have just changed the name. Question: How do we earn them for the lost two years?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-17-S1-commons.u55	I'll answer you right away.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-17-S1-commons.u56	I hope that we do not win, as you said, when the fourteen ministerial decisions and the twenty-four joint ministerial decisions will be adopted. Let's continue with the investor who wants to invest in tourism. For typical reasons, the Council of State in early 2014 annulled the Common Ministerial Decision on Spatial Tourism. It's been two and a half years. The country, for typical reasons, does not yet have a spatial tourism plan. I ask: What spatial policy is being pursued in tourism? How can one invest, when there is still no regional tourism, which could have been ready since mid-2015, because - I repeat - the Council of State did not cancel it for its content, but for the way it was passed and made the decision and you could well have done it today. Because I see next to you, Minister, the former chairman of the Technical Chamber, Christos Spirtzis, tell him to remind you that for four months, in the second half of 2014, the Ministry of the Environment, together with the Technical Chamber, in ten construction services, implemented something very important: the electronic issue of building permits. We broke the largest source of corruption in town planning and the joint ministerial decision was ready to expand throughout the country and apply until the end of 2015. And you are still suspending this joint ministerial decision. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, to show our good will, our rapporteur said that in principle we support the bill and the reason is very simple: 30% is a copy of the laws that apply, which are ours. The other 30% is a reintroduction of provisions that we and you have removed. And the other 30%, but not enough as a majority, is the creation of new institutions, new committees, new bureaucratic mechanisms, new delays, which will go back to the country's spatial development. We will support the bill in principle. Listen to the remarks that the rapporteur and our speakers will make, and I hope, when this stage is completed, that the country will have even a few years back. Because the Prime Minister in Washington said that "Greece is back". Only he forgot to add: "In Greece, I, Tsipras, brought her back many years and will take many more years to come where we received it." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-17-S1-commons.u57	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-17-S1-commons.u58	I have the impression that Mr. Maniattes exaggerated himself. To speak personally, it felt that I received a ministry where the issues of spatial planning were so ideal and abundant we felt we were stuck in some things. If I remember forests well - Mr Famelos will remember statistics better than me - it was 4% -5%. The special landfills of tourism, which you referred to, had both fallen into the Council of State. Detail! So there's no special spatial tourism.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-17-S1-commons.u59	What did you do?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-17-S1-commons.u60	All thirteen regional projects that I have in my office - you are quite right that I had signed only Crete - were made taking into account the specific landfill tourism, which many other regulations have fallen, unfortunately not. It is therefore necessary to adapt to something that is in place. I don't want to ask you about the register. I'm sure you'd answer Mr. Clinton that it's a real estate mature country that everyone knows where to build what. I don't want to extend to that. I imagine that only one poor man would say that your historical party on the matter of the Land register has taken down laurels and we should copy them all and all the other countries in the world, I suppose. [[Noise in the Chamber]] So let the register be opened, because it really would not be appropriate to open it. If all that I have just said is true, then it makes sense to what I said before, that the country had no spatial planning, so a new concept of who makes spatial planning and how it will be introduced. The land uses that you invoked, which are necessary for this design, had to be adapted and this is now being completed. The register had to be what happened. When Mr Famellos announced the forest maps, you were all chasing him and saying, "Take back the law, they are not ready, they are not mature, they will never be done, they will be wronged." But it went on and on, as it turns out. There is a lot of other issues about the electronic platforms that were ready and, while we wanted, we could not put them into effect for a number of reasons because they had various problems. Mr. Spirtz knows about these things a little better than I do. However, all my associates were telling me that they needed some additional sections to work. I imagine that now - and in agreement with the TEI and this bill - we have reached the point where electronic platforms can function and operate, as planned. I therefore think that you may have exaggerated yourself in trying to present a settled spatial planning world, which we simply did not recognize its greatness and extended for two years this paradise version - at least - of at least - of Greece. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-17-S1-commons.u61	Minister, Mr Stathakis, you must also refer to legislative improvements to distribute them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-17-S1-commons.u62	Yes, I will table the legislative improvements to the draft law entitled 'Control and protection of the structured environment'.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-17-S1-commons.u63	Mr. Spirjis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-17-S1-commons.u64	I wanted to say, following on from what Mr Stathakis and Mr Maniatis said, why the electronic platform for building permits could not work. It was a program that was approved by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs at the time and was implemented by the National Chamber of Commerce. The platform for the identity of the building was not completed. I guess it's done now. The amendments provided for in the draft law must be made. And by the way, I would like to thank Mr. Maniots for having a selective memory. In other words, he remembered the arbitrary platforms held in the Chamber of Technical Chamber when I was president. He remembered the electronic platform for issuing building permits and, of course, for the identity of the building, which I imagine was completed after I left. But he denounced me a few days ago that I am against the technologies for the 'UBER' and 'TAXIBEAT platforms'. Mr Maniotis must tell us whether there are people in this government who are in favour of new technologies who have contributed to the modernization of our public administration and society, or whether we are - if you want - representatives of inexorably cooperative interests and we are fighting new technologies. But this criticism must be stabilised. To say it elegantly, or we're in favor and create it or we're against it and we're forbidden to use it. Let Mr. Maniots choose and tell us.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-17-S1-commons.u65	Mrs Eleni Rapti from New Democracy has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-17-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the issue of arbitrary construction has been a very long history in Greece, because very simply for years the arbitrary structures have been housed in unclear laws, in the absence of a serious framework of urban planning, in the lack of control, but also in the magical tricks that have transformed ground floors and houses into three-storey buildings. They filled the current houses, the residential areas developed unreservedly. Everywhere there was an image, where everyone built as he wanted, wherever he wanted and what he wanted. This reality had to be tackled in a unique and bold way. And I believe that the legalisation of arbitrary, despite all the objections, has proved an excellent decision both in terms of strengthening public revenue and in its social dimension, since arbitrary construction is a universal problem and has a characteristic movement in which almost all Greeks are involved. With this logic, it should be recognised that this issue was covered by the policies of the 2010-2014 period, which were maintained in force, they had a complete success and contributed to the legitimisation of thousands of arbitrary buildings and constructions, with a huge national and social benefit. So the draft law on this dimension probably has little to do with it, because the increase in the number of doses is nothing new. A large number of doses were foreseen and L.4178/2013. Ladies and gentlemen, I would remind you that, in the event that you have forgotten, the SYRIZA rapporteur then voted against it. Just to know who has contributed and how to make the most of the country's urban planning effort. I would even say that even more serious discussion should take place in Greece and ask why the citizens have chosen the arbitrary construction, because in addition to the immediate response of easy enrichment - obviously it does not explain why thousands of small households have joined - there are a number of reasons which ultimately relate to the way we legislate: the uncertainty of landowners for their use, the playground with the reductions in excellence, unprecedented urban decisions and much more. There's no Greek who doesn't have a town story to tell. My view is that where there is massism in the violation of the law, it is the bad law. It happened in arbitrary construction. It also happens in tax evasion. A very simple example is the reduction of the fines of this law, which would be entitled to those who make use of the new law, but not those who consistently trusted the state and joined the regulations of Law 4178 and thus have paid more for the same infringement, probably confirming the tactical that in Greece, the more you delay, the more you favor. In addition, in relation to the electronic procedures and the electronic building identity provided for by the new law, these were established by earlier laws and especially by Law 4178/2013. All the government had to do was activate them, which it has not done. She lost thirty-two months and now she starts the process. And, of course, the draft law does not prevent what we have acquired global know-how: complex procedures, complex provisions, new mechanisms, dozens of new committees, sub-committees, councils, tiers and addresses! At the time, that is to say, that we are asking for simplicity, we are insisting on an unlimited bureaucracy. And as always, lack of self-evident who, apparently, will never be discussed: why did we allow the cost of a licence to reach such heights? Because so many papers, paradoxes and amounts of any kind of invention in favour of initials that we do not even know what they mean. Who ever thought of doing zero the cost of issuing permits for our desolating villages and subsidising the building of permanent dwellings? What mechanism has it ever been to restore landlords who have lost their land or been afflicted for years to make use of their property? The ones who bought a field with archiving certificate and became a forest. The ones who bought a plot of land and came out 'Acropolis'. That is what we need to resolve, because otherwise we will produce arbitrary and legitimising laws. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not surprised at the draft legislation under discussion. We'd expect something more, more bold and new. I'm closing up with a report on the Prime Minister's trip to the United States. Obviously I wish him, as all of them, success at both national and economic and diplomatic level. First Greece is coming. I simply cannot hide my surprise at the Prime Minister's adaptability to what he once denounced in amphitheaters as capital, and a man of capitalism. And of course I wonder where the Prime Minister might have lost his left vision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-17-S1-commons.u67	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the sitting will continue until 22.30 p.m. Five other speakers will be present because tomorrow it will not come out as we have calculated, as all the parliamentary representatives and about twenty speakers have left. Mr. Famelos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-17-S1-commons.u68	Thank you very much, Madam President. I have taken the floor to clarify a number of issues relating to forestry policy and forestry legislation, but I cannot avoid temptation. And Mrs Raptis closed up and Mr Maniotis made a speech on the Prime Minister's visit and the meeting with Mr Trump. So let me tell you that Mr Trump today said that Greece has been through a lot - I wonder who he went through - but he has done a great job - I wonder who did it - and he will be back. He also spoke of a credible debt relief - and we still have not heard your position on debt relief -, he referred to the role - key that our country has, of course, told the Prime Minister: 'We hope to have you for many more years'. These as a comment on the issues you have raised on the country's unreliable and incomplete international policy...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-17-S1-commons.u69	For the F-16, who's going to give the American workers a job?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-17-S1-commons.u70	...and, of course, this shows, if you like, what the role of Greece is today in the position it is in, exploiting its geopolitical position, which has not taken place for so many years and how a country can be kept independent, healthy, productive, when respecting work and right, which the previous governments did not respect. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS VARENTIS takes over]] But one question arises: we were not making investments, because we did not have a framework, for example, for spatial planning, which you have built and, of course, fell into the Council of State. So I will tell you that it is indeed a deficit, but I will ask myself: How are you doing while you had a framework and a will and were stuck in our drawers years of investment that are now falling apart? May I refer to Atalanti Hills, the presidential decree of Afantou, the Xenia of Skiathos, the island of Maresa? All the things that have been in our drawers for so long, why haven't you guys solved, framed and willing? It seems, therefore, that you neither had a framework nor a will. You've been working for a few. For air loans to some canalarchs who supported the chairs of power for a limited system around the banks. That was the political aim. Because if anyone wanted to develop in our country, they'd make forest maps. So what happened? The Minister asked me to update the percentages achieved by the government that Mr Maniotis has played, but also by yours. In the forty years, therefore, of Postpopulation, with a constitutional order for forest maps, 1.5% of the forest maps were posted. And note: 0.5% of the post from 1.5% - that is, one third - did not even go to a committee. You posted them and did not do committees. The remaining 0.5% were decided by the committees and not ratified and only 0.5% of the country had been ratified. And now, within one year of the suspension, we will have at the end of November 96% ratified by the 35% we have already posted. You didn't dare, ladies and gentlemen. That was the situation. But I think I need to clarify a few issues that have been put in by locations on forest maps. A debate is reopened to extend the suspension. Firstly, ladies and gentlemen, the post was completed on 25 September. If you want to raise a matter, you raise the question of re-establishing the already integrated forest maps and if such a debate is opened, it has come from the speaker of the Democratic Association and it has made me seem that it is the state's responsibility and that is why they must be posted again. Let's see: Is it the state's responsibility? So the state, the government, gave us an extension of eight and a half months to have a post with sufficient information from interested parties. He gave information, which your own governments did not do, because the New Kilkis MP here said that the citizens of his region did not know that you had posted and asked us to do the piece that you had already posted on Kilkis. And it was said here by a Member who was then also a member of the Ministerial Council. We reduced the cost of objections by 80%. That's not what happened.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-17-S1-commons.u71	That's 35% you've posted now. Is there the same flow of information?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-17-S1-commons.u72	Please. We reduced the cost of objections by 80%. I know you're really worried about the truth, but that's it. We have put the obvious mistakes and actions of the administration in the state's obligation at zero cost to the citizen. For the cultivated ex-forested forests we have given the possibility of changing without objection, not to pay the farmer's money. We made personal briefings with sms and e-mails of all farmers subsidised in June and July. We reduced the cost of changing by 83% and made it a hundred doses. It is eight - nine years for the farmer of Greece. We extended three months in the summer twice after farmers' personal information. We gave ten days after the date of the suspension for the paradoxes and the proof of legitimate interest. Only an electronic application was made ten days later and a substantial extension was made. We have enabled the services until 25 October to pass the obvious mistakes and actions of administration. Even now, in other words, maps are corrected for the benefit of citizens without costs, without bureaucracy, and obviously, we have enabled the elements of use and the photo-interpretation to come up to the day when the objection is being considered. It is only the electronic application that the citizen needs to have done. We have also given the possibility of paying a week after the suspension expires. All this is the service the state has done to the citizen in our own government for 35%, that is 1/3 of the country. Now it's all done. Of course, I must say that one cannot ask for an extension because the municipalities have not fulfilled their obligations, firstly because they had to have done so before the suspension and, secondly, because the one who does so - and is in the amendment to the Democratic Partnership - forgive me, colleague - that all hundred and twenty municipalities have fulfilled their obligations. It cannot be a reason, therefore, that the municipalities did not fulfil their obligations when they have fulfilled their obligations. And why did they pay? Because we have gone twice to the CEDEFOP board, because we have pressed, because we have asked for it and why it has been done. You haven't done that either. The municipalities had not sent evidence and this was known under Mr. Maniotis' office. To speak clearly, you didn't do it. I'll tell you now why we can't even give an extension. Ladies and gentlemen, the process of partial ratification has begun and at the end of November 96% of the maps will be ratified, because only 4% of the objections to the obvious and the change of use are raised. We will finally have 96% of 35% in our country, so 33%, validated. I wonder if you don't want to have it ratified and you want to reopen a matter of suspension, since the municipalities have fulfilled their obligations and there are residential densities and settlement plans everywhere on the electronic background? [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell of the Minister hits the warning bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Since the legal step has already been taken in the expiry of the suspension, I suspect that the request for a new suspension challenges the legal act that has been completed and wants to question the uses as well. You want the status of the rule of law to be called into question for uses. That's a question. Do you want it? Is that what you're pursuing? We can tell you at the same time that practically the electronic system at the end of October will receive a new post. You don't want her to be either? We're talking about the rest of 17% of the country. If we keep the electronic system open for 35%, we will not post 17% or cancel 35%. So there is a basic question as the whole debate started, and that is what this is all about: who wants growth? You're accusing us of not using development tools. Quite simply, anyone who raises a question of new forest maps does not want the uses to be clear and there is developmental planning in the country with clear roles and backgrounds, because forest maps are necessary backgrounds. This is a fundamental question of our country and the relationship, if you like, with society and the environment, is clear in order not to be unclear, but to be clear and not to be the local party leader who cares for the farmer's back and says to him: 'I'll take care of it.' Do you want this to be continuously reproduced? You need to take a seat at some point. Which state do you represent? Which state? The old one? The contributors and the parties or the European course of the country with clear land uses and design? We know what we represent. We represent work and law. There remains a question about what you represent. You must stand against the citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-17-S1-commons.u73	Thank you. Mr. Karastasis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-17-S1-commons.u74	Mr President, Minister, I also think I will be tempted to respond to some of the issues that have been raised before. We need to know that this place has been in general spatial planning since 2008. In other words, ten years have not been completed. They did the Spatial Regional Plans since 2005 and are now being reviewed. At the same time, the special spatial planning, some of which fell. The Minister referred earlier to the issue of tourism. We have the space for the RES, for the industry or for fish farming. What's happened all these years? Do you know that there was a conflict between these spatial plans and that there could not be any investment going on? Can you tell me what this investment has gone on for days of counter-population? For example, you wanted in 2013 to use health tourism. You received a call for expressions of interest in 2013 and offered ‘0’ offers. Do you know why "0" was given? Only in topographics that were not dependent - I will say it for the area of Central Greece, Fthiotida - all spatial planning fell within the Malian. There were no S.H.I.E.L.D.s. It was heard before about the piece of Atalanti Hills. Do you know that TWOs, the areas of integrated tourist development, were you not progressing? Now the administration - and I say it here because it is this ministry - ended this whole process and went the whole thing to the Council of State where they went. So you can imagine what your own project has been all these years in terms of planning, so that we can welcome investments. I want to tell you something. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. You had no forest maps or delimitation of the cavalry. Is it possible to move all this forward that someone will come to invest? So, I think you're trying to create impressions right now. This government, although it has begun to give solutions to many issues, is still in the past. Mr President, Minister, I think that the bill under discussion, despite the fact that a lot of people appear to be another arbitrary bill, even as the previous law goes through, is actually attempting something much greater and more substantial: it is, in fact, the introduction of terms and rules for the overall treatment of the structured environment. I think that this draft law provides for briefly the following: The creation of a new administrative structure for the control and protection of the structured environment. To create a new institutional framework for the process of issuing and controlling building permits by creating three categories of how to issue them. Energise the institution of transferring the build-up factor. Ensuring an environmental balance through the creation of the Bank of Rights and Commonwealths and the matching, through it, of the transfer of a build-up factor with environmental balance contribution securities. The arbitrary construction control procedures. The placing on the market of certain categories of arbitrary persons in a procedure for a declaration and payment of a single special fine for the suspension of penalties. The creation of the city's electronic urban identity, which will contribute to the transparency and monitoring of spatial planning processes and contribute to its acceleration. The establishment of the electronic identity of the building for all buildings without any use. This is how we treat the protection of the structured environment, which requires self-protected protection and control, for the benefit of the operation of the natural and cultural environment. With the adoption of new provisions and the improvement of existing provisions, an overall regulation of the issues relating to the structured environment is aimed at. The aim is, by laying down a new framework of rules on holistic building - which, on the one hand, provides for the care, prevention and protection of the environment, on the other hand, aims to address the causes, which have contributed to the creation of the unregulated and arbitrary structured environment in our country - to create the conditions and mechanisms for monitoring and control for the rational and efficient management of the development of the area in terms of sustainability. It is known that administrative and environmental organisations have shown as a major environmental issue the slowdown in urban planning, which is largely due to the lack of information from the administration about real construction, and legal and arbitrary. The recording and declaration of arbitrary structures and buildings is not a collective measure, but leads to the full and real urban imprint of the areas and fuels the urban planning with clear and safe conclusions on environmental targeting. With this holistic treatment of arbitrary people, we contribute to restoring the injustices which have been committed to the detriment of citizens and serve the fundamental rule of Article 4 of the Constitution on equality of citizens. I think that the non-horizontal treatment of arbitrary people and the graduation in scales by introducing stricter sanctions with the highest categories of arbitrary ones - Category 5 - and the imposition of an arbitrary penalty equal to 100% of its objective value for each year of retention, highlight the position of legislator: zero tolerance for arbitrary construction and the introduction of strict criminal and administrative sanctions for cases of the execution of new arbitrary or non-respect of existing ones. I think, Mr Minister, that I will make two comments on a number of points that need to be discussed. The identity of the building, which, as I said before, is institutionalised for all buildings - and it is my personal position - which is a constant demand from the TEI and the technical world of the country as an ideal tool to support a realistic, long-term residential policy, is only made mandatory when the property is transferred. I have a different proposal, which could really have been sufficient. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. Minister, we also need to look at the issue, which is related to the payment of obligations with regard to L.4178/2013, which want to be transposed into the new law in Article 14. I think too many people have not managed to deal with and serve the doses, probably by weakness. It is therefore unfair that this amount should be transferred to the time-limit and I think we should deal with it. The last point I want to make to deal with, correct, hastening to say that I am not a political engineer, but I am an electronic engineer, although I served the TE for two terms as chairman of the TEI Management Committee in Eastern Central. Mr President, as far as structural and seismic risks are concerned, political engineers are concerned. Structural and seismic risks, however, do not only concern the bearer, i.e. the skeleton of construction, but extends to the entire building and to the formations which are the subject of various committees and councils, as defined by this law by the architecture councils.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-17-S1-commons.u75	Finish, Mr. Karanastasis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-17-S1-commons.u76	I'm done. I think and believe that the opinion of the political engineers on the dangerously prepared buildings and additions to buildings and to the preservers, the dividing up of the volume of buildings, that is to say, the issues that also concern these councils, are obviously the only scientifically acceptable.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-17-S1-commons.u77	All right, all right, Mr. Karanastasis, you promised.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-17-S1-commons.u78	Wait a minute, Mr. President. In view of the above, the exclusion of civil engineers from these mandatory bodies, which converts them from architecture councils to architect boards, is inappropriate and unfair to the effort of the state. Finally, yesterday we received a communication from the Association of Civil Engineers for the Retrospectively Added paragraph 5 of Article 49 of the Bill and I believe that it is not the purpose of this bill to define the professional rights of the various specialities of engineers, and to restrict them to a time when the adoption of a Presidential Decree on the overall regulation of the rights of civil engineering is due.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-17-S1-commons.u79	Mr. Karanastasis, you're obliging me to become tiresome.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-17-S1-commons.u80	In conclusion, I would like to reiterate that we are voting today on a piece of legislation, which aspires to be part of urban legislation, outside and beyond the practices of the past that led to today's lousy structured landscape that we all know about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-17-S1-commons.u81	Good. Mrs. Gara has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-17-S1-commons.u82	Mr. President, what half are we done?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-17-S1-commons.u83	I can't count exactly, they know who's going to talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-17-S1-commons.u84	The President said that half of us would be over.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-17-S1-commons.u85	All right, there's gonna be an effort, as long as we keep the time. Sometimes, and saving time can be done, it's not bad. Here, Mrs. Gara, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-17-S1-commons.u86	I'll try to be short. Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, we are quite often called upon in this House to discuss bills attempting to rationalise misery of the past. That is the reality we face, we know it. They are malicious, which were the result of political choices, and I will not stop saying that, of service of interests and of certain objectives. So one of these bills is today about the structured environment of the country. After all, no one can question that over the years a completely irresistible and arbitrary non-structured environment has been created, and - I insist - it has been your political choice. As Mrs Rapti said, when society or our fellow citizens are afflicted, it is a bad law. I wonder: Who's legislating? Who legislated these bad laws and led all these citizens to tax evasion and arbitrariness? All these years, therefore, you have ruled and spoken about Greece's European identity, modernization and development. How, really, would all this be done without spatial planning, without land register, without forest policy, without basic tools? I wonder many times when I hear you, if I live in 2017 or the '70s. On the other hand, hours - hours, I am also looking for this spatial paradise of the past that SYRIZA destroyed. If you find him, please, Mr. Stathakis, let us go together to this paradise. The word " arbitrary" automatically brings to the mind of each other a more general framework of immunity and lawlessness of the past, where everyone was building where and as he wanted, without rules, without control, without respect for the environment and, above all, without respect for his fellow citizens, a setting that of course characterises the way in which previous governments deal with all the important issues of the country, arbitrarily, unjustly and unconsciously. In the recent past nine more attempts have been made to settle the arbitrary. So after creating an irresistible landscape, they were throwing aspirins to fix it. None of these efforts, however, put a brake on arbitrary construction. Illegal? Today, then, we are discussing another initiative of government and legislation, but with a different approach and logic. These arrangements provide for the revision of the control mechanism and the methods for dealing with arbitrary construction. At the same time, however, they seek to simplify and speed up the procedures for issuing and monitoring building licences, taking into account the protection and convenience of citizens and the protection of the environment. Because both the Minister and my interlocutors and the rapporteurs have mentioned the positive provisions and areas of this bill, I will not mention them briefly of time and savings. So what I would like to point out is that the most essential element for me, which must be stressed, is not so much the attempt to settle the arbitrary buildings, the prevention measures taken to eliminate the phenomenon of arbitrary construction and finally move to a time of modern settlements and cities, with infrastructure that will serve citizens and respect our coexistence with the natural environment. Ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me, however, to refer specifically to Article 122, which concerns my region and provides for arrangements for the huts in the Thrace region and more specifically to them in the Evros Delta. As you know, the Evros Delta is a protected area, under the NATURA 2000 regime in recent years, an area of unique beauty and rare biodiversity, and there are mainly fishermen and hunters, caring for the environment on the one hand, but also giving life to our borders, at this atrocious and special point, where the human main presence is very important. There, therefore, was never a plan, protection and construction rules, so that all the huts have been identified as arbitrary and demolished at the moment, charging fines to the owners. Although, in the past, we have heard many promises from rulers and officials who have probably lived in this spatial paradise, no one has taken a substantial initiative to settle this situation. This is the first time that their legalisation has been initiated, but also a draft construction rules in the region. What exactly is predicted? In the first place, fines and demolition operations are automatically suspended for two years and the Presidential Decree on the protection of the area is expected to be adopted during those two years. I therefore ask the Minister responsible to initiate the procedure so that in these two years the Presidential Decree can be issued. Since then, based on the terms of this Presidential Decree and the architectural study, with the agreement of the municipality and management body, the huts that will meet the required conditions are legalised. Thus, for the first time, the people who are active in the Evros Delta come out of the loose ends of the arbitrary and fear of fines and demolition, while creating a mapped framework for construction and a sense of security and legality for the citizens. It is very, very important for the region of Thrace and for the people who are working there who live in a regime, without being to blame, arbitrary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-17-S1-commons.u87	And we'll keep time, Mrs. Gara.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-17-S1-commons.u88	To save.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-17-S1-commons.u89	Mr. Ursuzidis has the floor, a Macedonian who is called to be a Laconian tonight.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-17-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the draft law on the control and protection of the structured environment. Can there be protection of the environment, when someone makes money arbitrary? I don't think so. For decades, however, there have been generations for generations of arbitrary buildings, which the state has tolerated, whether we should be honest and look at the citizen in the eyes. But the citizens knew very well what they were doing. It was not arbitrarily built, without knowing the person who arbitraried that he was actually carrying out an illegal act. After all, the number of constructions which in recent years have been incorporated into previous laws in order to settle arbitrariness - if this can also be regarded as a pedigree - is more than a million. So if we multiply by four, at least half of Greece's population, either directly or indirectly, uses something that has been arbitrary in the past. The bad news is that the Greek state saw the problem during the crisis. This means, therefore, that it was not intended to create a reserve to help where the environment was hurting, but to provide resources and meet other needs. This reality does not at all honor the country. On the other hand, however, there was a need for these citizens to feel that they are not in danger of a complaint or of what could result from them, since in any way they would be called upon to pay for a great deal of money. Building control has always existed. However, lastly, the laws which were not passed by our government, but by your own, improved matters of control in the sense that the building auditors take a very serious responsibility towards their customers, but also to themselves. The fines are very large and can even bring about a deprivation of an engineer's license. However, the phenomenon of arbitrary construction has not been missed. Nor can anyone claim, as has been said in this Chamber, to settle town planning. arbitrary buildings are legalised and create a relationship between the citizen and the state, a treaty with which everyone assumes their responsibilities. So the citizens came, they paid. But some people were unable to respond because of the crisis in the amounts that they thought they would be able to respond to when they joined. I would like to read Article 104 of the law in order to keep the fellow citizens listening to us quiet. ‘The amounts paid for upkeep and maintenance fines, as well as the amounts paid for special conservation or infringements, shall be offset by the amount of the new special fine. The amounts paid shall be deducted from the last instalment and the previous years immediately until the netting has been completed.’; In simple terms, anyone who has paid a sum with the previous law and who has come up with it if he is incorporated with the current law, the one who is being voted on today, will be able to reduce that sum which has been exceeded by the previous law. It should also be stressed that, in order to carry out a check, a red line had to be introduced at some point. This red line, I fear, will be violated in the future, since the reasons that created arbitraryness in the previous years are not lifted. It is July 28, 2011. In fact, a series of inspections, which did not exist in the past, are introduced by the bill, and according to which the engineer will also have in mind that he cannot act arbitraryly, but he must respect at least the basics of the normalisation of the arbitrary system. I have nothing more to say, there has been a lot of talk about these issues. I repeat that, in order to solve the arbitrary problem, the reasons which created them must be missed and I shall mention a few. There was very clearly the responsibility of the state, which tolerated this arbitrary nature, played with it, hit the backs of the world. The world was cozy in closing a semi-terrestrial space to settle a need for housing the family. There were people who were dissatisfied against forest lands. All this, however, in some way, is limited by the modern instruments provided for in this bill, in order to exercise more effective control. I repeat, however, for the third time that the causes which have created the arbitrary construction in the country must be eliminated and these relate to an activity on the part of the public, which must directly meet, to create those conditions so that those which need to be included in the town plans will soon be put out of the phenomena and a number of other issues. In conclusion, I would like to refer to the Association of Greek Archaeologists. I also did so in the Committee on Production and Trade. I want to be very clear so there's no misunderstanding. This association requires the competence of an opinion on the construction work within archaeological sites, historical sites and nearby monuments not to be given to architectural councils but to remain solely the responsibility of the institution's advisory bodies, the institution of which is the body for delimiting, declaring and characterising them. This cannot be accepted at this stage. The bill quite rightly provides that architects have reason and must express themselves. If this requirement is passed, it means that we are deprived of an industry that has studied this thing the right to express an opinion. If they really want to protect the monuments, they should first impose that procedure which is clear to the citizen, that is, the citizen should know exactly what points and what he can build. Then I will also be ready to give my opinion and to squeeze that opinion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-17-S1-commons.u91	So do we. Does the Minister want to add something?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-17-S1-commons.u92	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-17-S1-commons.u93	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-17-S1-commons.u94	I think that the title should be added to the 'and other provisions' following the amendments tabled by Mr Spirtzi. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-17-S1-commons.u95	Thank you. Ms. Big Economics has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-17-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, Mr President. General Ministers, in the final draft of this draft law on the control and protection of a structured environment, in particular Article 31, which existed in four paragraphs, provided for in paragraph 2, if the municipalities have not established or are unable to establish a building service or have a building service which does not meet the conditions required for its orderly functioning, a regional building service shall be set up by decision of the coordinator of the decentralised administration, with a spatial responsibility for the above-mentioned municipalities until the adoption of that decision of the coordinator of the relevant decentralised administration. Paragraph 2 of Article 1 of the Act of Legislative Act of 3012/2012, as ratified by Article 1 of Law 4147/2013, shall apply to date. You will now ask what this provision was meant to mean. The purpose of this provision was to rehabilitate the PSOs from the large metropolitan municipalities. This was the best possible service for the smaller municipalities, since if the LAGs remain in the metropolitan municipalities, their employees will only be able to move within any other service of the metropolitan municipality, thus leading to the subsistence of the LAGs of the small municipalities. We were surprised to see that such an important provision has been removed from the final text of the draft law and is being voted before us and has been replaced by a general provision limiting the conditions for the operation, organisation and staffing of the HRMs on the basis of the Presidential Decree. It is missing from the original paragraph 2, but it is almost certain, not only that the subsistence of the LAGs of the smaller municipalities, such as all the island municipalities that fall under Region I of Piraeus, Aegina, Kythera, Spetses, Troisenia, Hydra, Poros, Agistri and in the 2nd Piraeus, Salamina and the other island municipalities of our country, but also the consequent creation of many technical problems in them. Ladies and gentlemen, the speeches I have heard from the two rapporteurs, Mrs Karakostas of SYRIZA and the rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Katsafandou, are notable. Mrs Karakostas is elected in the 2nd Piraeus and has Salamis and Mr Katsafados has the above-mentioned municipalities. How do you, directly concerned with you two...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-17-S1-commons.u97	We've said it, the Home Office will bring it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-17-S1-commons.u98	Mr President, I shall speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-17-S1-commons.u99	This paragraph has been completely eliminated and you have been able to accept it without speaking at all? So, is the City of Piraeus's metropolitan municipality given to control the small municipalities without making a word of at least you of the Antipolitics? Did you accept that, Mr. Catasfado? I do not understand what measures you have taken. Okay, Mrs. Caracosta...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-17-S1-commons.u100	The Ministry of Interior will bring a bill to which it puts it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-17-S1-commons.u101	Why did you accept that paragraph 2 should be removed?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-17-S1-commons.u102	Since it's the Ministry of Interior?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-17-S1-commons.u103	Okay. I don't accept it, though. I don't accept it. This elimination is considered to be a maximum omission from the Article and concerns the small municipalities in the region. As elected in the 2nd Region and having links with Kythera as a origin, I consider it my duty to ask for this paragraph to be reincorporated. In fact, I submit to the minutes the urgent letter sent by the Mayor of Kythera to the Minister of the Environment and Energy, Mr Stathakis, and to the Minister of State, Mr. Skourletis, and notified the MPs 1, Piraeus and the Islands, to all the mayors of the Region and to the Vice-President of the Island, Mr. Hadjiperos, and explains all the reasons. So don't tell me about the Interior Department. I'm filing it. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Theodora Megalonikou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I think that we must take this cry of despair of the mayor of Kythera, who expresses all the island municipalities seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-17-S1-commons.u104	And we, Mrs. Big Economics, for respect for time. Mr. Theocratic has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-17-S1-commons.u105	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I shall refer to the Prime Minister's trip for a minute's introduction. I take the floor one hour after the meeting of the Prime Minister and the Government Staff with the President of the United States. Despite our political disagreements with this particular political man, this is an institutional visit of great importance that supports our country geopolitically and economically. It seems that the sacrifices of the Greek people are finally taking place, and there is now an undeniable international recognition of our government, which makes the continuous and tiring demand of the Elections Officer. You're going to lose them on time, Mr. Comrade. This Regulation shall Don't rush! Secondly, it gives stability to the work of our Government, so that it passes bills like the present one that sets order in the up to date anarchist structured environment. I will not avoid an answer to Mr Manatis about what to say to the American investor with the 100 million, why to bring them to Greece. Because it will not waste half of it in hates in the various scales that acted and blossomed until 2015. They will catch his money, apart from the rest that the ministers have mentioned, such as because there is a transparent and democratic environment that respects investments in combination with legality. Mr President, I am not going to go so far as the town planning provisions, i.e. the motto of the bill. Our rapporteur, the Minister and other colleagues have been mentioned in detail. I will just say that this is a structured effort that puts order on the structured environment, on the arbitrary side and on the way to dealing with them. I just want to say one sentence. Sustainability and respect for the environment and the man we are looking for now were data in the art of our high - age grandparents. The lesson, therefore, is that we must draw from our tradition the revolutionary and sustainability it has in it. And she has it on too many aspects. Not only should we not be fearful to her, but we must highlight her revolutionary and sustainable aspects that are so necessary today. Let's go to Article 147 concerning our region: Anargiroi and Akrini. I can explain to my fellow Members what the story is and where we are today. By law of 2011, it was foreseen that these two villages would be relocated and expropriated by PPC and the Greek State as much as 50%, although they do not have a lignite look below them. That's what's going on for the first time. So far, villages that have been under coal have been expropriated. These don't have coal. Why is that so? Because the work of PPC S.A. was and is of such intensity that, for the sake of quality of life and protection of fundamental human rights, it was decided to expropriate and relocate them with a levelling-up of the expenditure by PPC and the Greek State. This decision was indeed right, because everyday life in these villages is unbearable. However, it proved to be a genocide of the former PASOK and New Democracy governments, a lie to the inhabitants of the Arctic and the Angers, because they did not take a step forward in the implementation of this decision. We are taking the crucial step in implementing Article 147 today, as we have a moral duty to do. As regards the Anargyns, the Government and the Minister reacted immediately after the flood in June 2017. There is indeed a specific timetable for the implementation of the redundancies. At the Anargys, we had the landslide. What do we got in the Cape? I have said so to the committee, but I want them to be heard in plenary too. Let's imagine on the block around the House building slowly coming machines to deposit around - around ashes and say, "What's up, guys? Here, slowly, hills rise and they will bury us." That's what's been going on in the Coast all these years. There's no coal underneath, but PPC's activity is next door. They place around the village the ash, apart from the other work they do. And that's how life becomes unseen for these people. You can't open a window, cancers, etc. If they're complaining, they're told "do an epidemiological study to see what's to blame" etc. I mean, Corridia. But today, with Article 147, we are in the right direction for the Anargyns. But for the Coast, Mr Minister, it is incomplete. I have also asked the committee that a clear timetable should be introduced with legislative improvement. In other words, next to the'shortest' of paragraph 1, a specific date should be added. In three, four, five months. Since the work will be done, it is important to announce it as soon as possible, if it is done today or tomorrow morning, so as to understand and convince the people that the previous governments do not continue to mockery. Since you have said that it is very important. We're also waiting for the official announcement. That was the basic desire of the people that we lived at the people's assembly and we have known it for so many years. It takes a specific timetable to understand that this process of relocation and expropriation will begin. They don't care who pays. 50% public and 50% PPC are in the right direction, and that's probably where PASOK's proposal is wrong. In closing to repeat for the legislative improvements that I have proposed in the case (c) and (d) of paragraph 2, specific deadlines should be set for actions for both the Head of the Mining Inspection and for you, Minister. I mean, twenty, thirty, forty days, so that's it, too, complete. Therefore, with these legislative improvements, which I understand are intended to be accepted by you, our intervention is complete for both the Anargyns and for Akriny, which is in the right direction, as is the rest of the bill. That is why I call on all colleagues to vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-17-S1-commons.u106	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Last but not least, Mrs. Scouffa.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-17-S1-commons.u107	Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law on the structured environment is one of the most important bills in the last few years, as much as the opposition wants to convince us on the contrary, which, together with the law on spatial planning, can actually put order in an arbitrary, immunity and lawlessness regime that we could say, has been built and cultivated in the country for decades. It is a bill which we, as parliamentarians and all the citizens of the country have been waiting for a long time to deal with bureaucracy. It is also extremely important for the relief of those who are at a dead end because of the arbitrary construction of the past and for the protection of the natural and structured environment and of course of our cultural heritage. Most of all, however, it contributes to combating a major pathogen of the past, namely fragmented and arbitrary-building cases. It is a bill aimed at dealing with all the issues relating to it from now on. It is also a bill that, by simplifying the process of issuing building permits in specific locations, we believe it contributes to fair and sustainable development. The logic of the bill is very simple and it introduces important areas. For example: There is finally a separation of the licensed process from control. The aim is to simplify the system by integrating all electronic media, making it a process accessible, friendly, effective. At the same time, as regards control, it incorporates the auditors of the structured environment in order to control the implementation process, other than bureaucracy, by transferring control to a regional and local level. Observations set up at regional level are being established in order to design and operate together, as this mechanism will monitor all developments, divergences and changes in the country's structured environment. The RIS retains what is imposed by constitutional law, namely discretionary power at a central level, so that it can intervene in these procedures. For this purpose, a special address is recommended to the Ministry. Thirdly, an electronic building identity is created. We all imagine that it is not a long time, which, as we have the three, already existing basic electronic identities with our tax and insurance elements, will also come to the desired result of having the electronic identity of the building. As you know, but you may be obsessed with hiding, the electronic identity from all over the country's stock is not directly requested. The electronic identity relates firstly to new and public buildings and electronic identity should also exist in order to complete the transfer process. This identity includes all the necessary elements concerning the proper execution and construction of the building, its safety and its maintenance, as well as the fight against urban arbitrage and construction overheads, because we believe that the favoured state is the state in which the rules of law must be applied in the structured environment. A pre-authorisation procedure shall be introduced, which is mandatory for large buildings of more than three thousand square metres, where a building permit is also provided for other services than building service and for projects of particular environmental and residential importance. The pre-authorisation mechanism creates a stronger legal certainty, especially with regard to large investments or large buildings, because it avoids the process of complex studies and large costs, if there are questions of any kind, if it conflicts or does not conflict with, that is to say, a project under construction in the existing legislative framework. With regard to building permits, the fact that they may be submitted electronically, that a number of simple tasks for which no building permit is required are also very important. Several citizens can now avoid bureaucratic processes, but the services themselves are getting rid of them. Therefore, building permits are shortened, and I think we will be able to get the time we record means to be implemented. Small scale work permits shall also be automatically issued by electronic submission. It is absolutely important that the citizen does not enter into the well-known time-consuming procedure for issuing licences for this work. Very positive, of course, are the provisions on drastically reducing the costs of settlement. From 40% to 60%, and in some cases up to 75%. They are very positive given the economic weaknesses that almost all Greeks are facing today because of the crisis. In particular, the reductions in Article 103 refer to special groups of populations, such as disabled persons, retired persons, multiples, third parties, long-term unemployed and beneficiaries of social solidarity allowance. At the same time, the number of doses of the single special penalty is increased from eighty to eighty per cent and a 20% discount is paid in the case of a one-off payment. I would like to close with another very important aspect of the draft legislation, which also creates a draconian economic counter-incentive to arbitrary construction. There's a red line in 2011. The fines we introduce into the new arbitrary cycle are too strict. If the Observer finds out an arbitrary and sends the statement to the tax office, a strong incentive is created to demolish it himself by the arbitrator to avoid the fine. This is, at the same time, a strong message that no one will ever dare to incorporate constructions from this point of view by choosing the arbitrary procedure. All this, ladies and gentlemen, because it is all very well accepted that we can no longer destroy this country. The town plans need to be extended, and that is the main one. But we must also give citizens a signal that they will soon have the tools, the data on where they can build and where they cannot. We should also be very strict with those who dare and dissatisfied against archaeological sites, in streams, in forest areas. All this for the benefit of all of us, for the benefit of regional development, for the benefit of the development of the whole country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-17-S1-commons.u108	Thank you, my colleague. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-17-S1-commons.u109	With the consent of the House at 22.55 the meeting for tomorrow, Wednesday, October 18, 2017, at 10 a.m., on the subject of Parliament's work: the continuation of discussion and vote at first, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy: “Control and protection of the structured environment and other provisions”.
