ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Before entering today's agenda, I would like to make two announcements. The Standing Committee on Production and Trade submits its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Environment and Energy: ‘Amendments to the provisions of forestry legislation and other provisions’. The Ministers of Economy and Development, Economic, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, as well as the Deputy Ministers of Finance and Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, submitted a draft law on 7-4-2017: "The Judicial Regulatory Mechanism for Business Debt". It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS We begin with the second with number 693/4-2017, the first question of the Athens Parliamentary II of the New Democracy, Mrs. Catherine Papakostas - Ironopoulou to the Minister of Finance, concerning the seizures of securities, real estate and bank accounts. Mrs. Papakostas, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. My timely question, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, concerns an extremely hot issue concerning the seizures of securities, real estate and bank accounts. When he hears it, he can imagine high amounts, he can imagine high bills, he can imagine expensive real estate. Unfortunately, however, the reality with your own government, namely with the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, is that since the beginning of this year a large number of citizens - and I will mention how large this number of citizens are, Mr President - even with small debts - and I am specific - have been in debt over 500 euros - have been hearing the amount, over 500 euros - receives an alert for the seizures of securities, real estate and bank accounts. One would expect after the Circular was issued on 20-3-2017, which provided for significant changes in the method of collecting debts from the Independent Public Income Authority, to improve matters. On the other hand, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the alert mission has been intensified. In fact, I must tell you that the methods used by the government, which calls for these 500 euros to be collected to the debtors, are even worse than the methods used by the banks' known collecting companies. So, as a Member of the Greek Parliament, I ask: Will you bring back, Minister, the inconsistency of the first residence and the regulation of more than a hundred instalments, which it seems to bear with the public? Will you take care - and this is the second and last question - of adopting a serious circular which excludes auctioning and removes the confiscations issued by taxes on first houses and, indeed, minimum, small square measures for debtors with serious financial problems? Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, too. The reason is the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mrs. Catherine Papanatsiou, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. As you well know, the Public Revenue Tax Code has been in force since 1974. Over time, of course, some amendments have been made, which were deemed necessary, in order to align themselves with the country's current budgetary needs. In accordance with the Code of Taxation 2013, the tax authority is required to pursue the collection of outstanding debts to the State and to suspend their limitations, taking all necessary criminal and other measures against debtors, including the seizure of movable property, the seizure of third parties and the seizure of credit institutions. Such seizures shall not be lifted prior to repayment or cancellation of the debt for which they were imposed. As regards the seizure of mobile phones, the CEDEFOP, as a special law, provided for and continues to anticipate irresponsible objects. All these measures, of course, concern all citizens, for reasons of equality and social justice. As regards the circular of the Independent Public Revenue Authority, issued on 20 March 2017, it was notified to the Services of the Independent Public Revenue Authority the provisions amending the Code of Civil Procedure relating to enforcement, mainly in disputes between individuals. These provisions, which are of general application, which are mostly applicable to the main auction procedure, shall apply only to the general public and if they are not contrary to the provisions of the CED. We must point out that, with regard to the forced recovery of late payment of public debt, there has been no change in the specific provisions of the CEDEFOP, which in many cases provide for a more favourable regime for public debtors. As regards the lifting of the confidentiality of bank deposits, it was already applicable by the State as well as by private individuals for bank confiscations, both in the context of administrative and enforceable execution, in accordance with the provisions of Law 2915/2001. In particular, in respect of your questions, incompatibility with the first residence has never been foreseen by the CEDEFOP to restore it. What is also true, as has been pointed out by the circular 1055/2010, is that the obligation to issue an auction programme within the deadlines laid down by the law is not in place, since there is a great reason, for example, when the debtor is immovable, which is proven to be its main and only residence and which meets the minimum requirements of its housing and since its value is not significantly different from the limits set for the exemption from the real estate tax as a first place of residence. Our Government introduced Law No.4321/2015, to which you referred, for the purpose of regulating late payment dues by up to 100 instalments, by deleting increases up to 100%, which helped a large number of taxpayers to settle their debts to the State and resulted in increased collection. In the context of that arrangement, it should be noted that in a circular 2015 Directive it was foreseen that, in the event of a finding of non-payment of an incorrect dose rate or the amount of the charge, late payment of the instalment or generally non-payment of small amounts that have not been paid out of miscalculated amounts, no loss of the arrangement occurs. Also, under the provisions of Law No.4305/2014, which provided for the settlement of debts as a hundred or seventy-two instalments, as appropriate, as well as in respect of relevant circulars - 2015 orders, the possibility of reincorporation in case of loss of regulation for reasons of force majeure was granted.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u5	Madam Secretary, you have a second language.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u6	I shall conclude, Mr President. Furthermore, financially weak debtors are allowed to adjust their debts by the fixed arrangement of Law 4152/2013 as well as Law 4174/2013. In any case, the debtor may be addressed to the competent DU, in order to provide clarifications, about specific elements of his case and information on the existing possibilities for adjusting his debts.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u7	Mrs Papakostas, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u8	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, because I was sitting on the seats you are sitting on, and because you read exactly what the service actors have written to you, I did not ask you to read to me what the service actors have advised you to do. I wanted you to see whether the legislation that the Hellenic Republic has at this time, and which you have introduced, hides traps for the debtors of the public, that is to say, whether the citizen is trapped. That is your political obligation to do and you do not answer me. For I am telling you as a lawmaker, but also as a Member of the Greek Parliament, that the legislation in force - and you must answer it - is hiding too many traps for public debtors. I'm explaining. I'll tell you what, because I don't have time. Trapping first: It may seem absurd, ladies and gentlemen, but the tax office with the legislation in force, in which I claim to trap citizens and the Ministry must protect against the traps of citizens, has the right to commit and confiscate a property of yours for a very low debt. Mr President, listen to what the letter of the law provides for. It provides that, for outstanding debts to the State over EUR 500, all alternative forced recovery measures can be imposed, therefore property seizures too. I also have to tell you, because you referred to the code and you were fortified behind it, that you are not telling us properly, Minister. Because the next trap that is hidden in the legislation in force and from which you must protect the taxpayer, whose property you confiscate and the values and confiscate him and the accounts are the following. It doesn't matter now to remind the name of your staff who said there's too much fat and there's a lot of honesty in the families and we need to look for the mattresses and pillows. It doesn't matter his name. He said it's your executive. So do this: From the amounts of wages, pensions and insurance benefits above EUR 1 000 per month, and EUR 1,500 per month, it is allowed - you allow it - the confiscation of the total amount of EUR 1,500 - to be done - or the insurance fund, instead of the 25% that has been in force up to a maximum of EUR 1,500 per month. I'll tell you a third trap, though there are many. For example, I have chosen to tell you that it can be seized up to 100% by the legislation in force, Mr President, of all kinds of compensation. For example, a worker is fired. His allowance for his work or for the damage that a insured asset suffered with your own, the existing legislation, through the trapping of the citizen, you can confiscate everything. That is what I asked you and I did not ask you to read to me what your service actors say and for that, please, very much, if you can answer me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u9	Ms. Papanaceu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u10	First of all, what I would like to clarify here is that confiscation of real estate does not mean the auctioning of real estate. Clearly, the government must make the seizures to safeguard its interests. From there on, the non-confidential account is 1,250 euros a month for all citizens who have declared an account as an irresponsible account. Our Government, in the context of the current budgetary situation, is doing everything in its power to facilitate the payment of the citizens' tax debts. To this end, and despite difficulties and constraints, we have repeatedly made ministerial decisions to extend and suspend tax obligations to regulate deferred debts in areas affected by exceptional weather and disasters. In addition, a draft law on the out-of-court settlement of debts has already been submitted in order to enable viable companies to regulate their overall debts, both to the private sector and to the public sector. Our aim is to give thousands of businesses, not only large, but especially small and medium-sized and individual businesses, who have been affected by the crisis, the opportunity to continue their operation. Next week we will have the opportunity to discuss the extrajudicial compromise in Parliament. In any case, we are trying to correct distortions that exist, wherever and where we can, primarily in the interests of the citizens of our country. From that point on, we are committed to talking with the Independent Public Income Authority, which, as you know, can now do its job without us interfering as political leadership. If a distortion occurs and very small confiscations are made, we can make a recommendation to correct it. Also, in the debate that will take place in a few days' time, in the Committee on Economic Affairs of the Parliament from all sides, there can be some discussion and put it all the political forces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, too. The first under number 678/31-3-2017, a topical question for the second cycle of the Athens MP, Mr. Konstantinos Hatzidakis, to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, concerning the deficits in the urban transport of Athens, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. Also, the second question under number 677/31-3-2017 of the Second Cycle of the MP Drama of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Haras Kefalidou to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the National Gallery and the cost of delaying the completion of the expansion project, will not be discussed due to the impediment of Minister Koniordos.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u12	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u13	Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u14	Unfortunately, the Minister declares a coma. Obviously, he doesn't have a minute to give, to answer a very simple question. The question we've tabled to her is a number. Tell us what the Greek taxpayer will pay from the delay of the work of the National Gallery.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u15	Mrs. Kefalidou, I understand. Don't develop the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u16	Wait a minute, Mr. President. I won't develop it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u17	Let me say this. I saw a picture of Mrs. Minister in Philippi.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u18	He travelled with me last night, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u19	So let's say 'we're in Philippi' in the transport sense.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u20	You know those who said "we leap to Philippi" what happened to them. The Minister can't spend a minute telling us a simple number. It's a six-digit, is it eight-digit? We have an application from the contractor, who is the "AKEKOR" who has made a request to dismantle the contractor. It has not been accepted by the Ministry. I wonder: isn't the Greek taxpayer entitled to know what extra he's going to pay? Shouldn't the Minister have answered?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u21	Don't develop it here. I understand your request for the Minister to come here. It's understood.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u22	We will insist, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u23	Mrs. Kefalidou, we take all this as a repetition of your request that the Minister come here to answer you. The fifth under number 643/21-3-2017 a topical question by the Member of Parliament, Aetolokarnania, of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Konstantopoulos, to the Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the support and upgrading of the TEI Mesology will not be discussed due to a workload of the Minister. For the same reason, the sixth question will not be discussed under number 504/20-2-2017, a topical question by the Member of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Christos Papapas to the Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, concerning "the fulfilment of the "matrix of the nation". Also, we will not discuss the seventh with number 602/14-3-2017 a topical question for the second cycle of MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the licences of substitute teachers. No debate will be held on the eighth under No 572-7-3-2017 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMARK KEGEROGlou Vassiliou to the Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the 'publishing of Presidential Decrees for the recognition of the professional rights of TEI graduates'. Immediately now, the first question under number 688/4-2017 will be discussed, with regard to the completion of the performance of the exempted areas of the concession agreement between Greek State and PPA SA, in the Municipality of Piraeus Keratini - Drapetsonas, Perama, Salamis, and the Municipality of Piraeus. Mrs. Cassimatis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, a constant request from the inhabitants of Piraeus was the performance of the seafront to the citizens. In response to this request, the Government has complied with its commitment - indeed it was a commitment by the Prime Minister himself, who has been abducted to the demands and struggles of the people for life in our region - and has indeed excluded from the concession agreement between the Greek State and the "Organized Port of Piraeus S.A.", ratified by Law 4404/2016, the Lipamia region and other areas of Keracini and Drapetsona, Perama, Salamina and Piraeus. These areas are included in detail in Part 4 of Annex 3.5 under No 7-36 of the above convention, which I mentioned above. For example, from the Second Piraeus in Drapetsona, beyond the Fertilizers, it is areas such as Kastraki, the hill of Kanthar, from King Ferraios to the National Stadium of Drapetsona. It is also the area of Lipamata from the harbor cliff Krakaris to the bay of Drapetsonas. We're talking about Keratsini. We're talking about an area around the former glazing mill. It is also the port of Agios Nikolaos, the Association of amateur fishermen of Keratini. It is also the area from the Drapetsonas mole to the Acrocrocromos as well as various EAFRD stations. Perama we are talking about the area of Armos, the lands of Perama Shipyards, called Carnaya. Also, various properties of the fire station. They're also parts of the Passage Pierce. From Salamis is Kynosura, the vagina, a closed gym, private properties, as archaeological zone I with some exceptions. Especially for the Lipama region - as you will know - their performance was predicted in the Municipality of Keratini - Drapetsonas, in accordance with Article 19 par. No 1, 2, 3 of 2404/2016. Since, Minister, in accordance with paragraph 3 of Article 19 of that Law on regulating the performance of the fertiliser area, a joint ministerial decision by the Ministers for Finance, Shipping and Energy, is required, which will regulate the duration and the conditions of concession, the consequences of their infringement, the penalties imposed, and the reasons for withdrawing the concession. Because it is also imperative that the regeneration of the Fertiliser region be carried out, because at the moment the field is unregulated, since the Government has provided for the organised urban reconstruction - development on the coastline of six hundred acres, thereby cancelling previous forecasts for the installation and installation of industrial uses, and because, in any case, for all the other areas in the municipalities mentioned above, legislation is required to make up the exempted areas, the elements and areas, I would like to ask you, in abusively - because we know that the joint ministerial decision should be signed by three ministers - and when will the common ministerial decision on regulating the performance of the Fertiliser area in the Municipality of Keratsini - Drapetsonas? Also, I ask you why it has not been legislated even when the rest of the area, areas and data are being provided in the municipalities of Piraeus, that is, Keratini - Drapetsonas, Perama and Salamis, as well as in the Municipality of Piraeus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u25	Mr Panagiotis Kourublis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u26	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a time-consuming, always demanding by the operators, municipalities and inhabitants of the wider region are the two issues on which the honourable Member of the region has placed himself in a very positive position. I must confess, Mr President, by following the general interest in this matter, that too many institutions and many fellow Members from different political backgrounds have shown this interest at times in order for such a vital issue for the region at last to find a suitable solution. In addition, I would like to tell you that the government, and with the Prime Minister's request, is trying through cooperation and with local government to give up areas not included in the port master plans - which means that they are not areas to be used for the use of port initiatives in the context of the development of the port industry - to self-government. We already went to Kavala, the other day we were in Igoumenitsa. There is therefore a constant effort to respond to these demands of self-government and local societies. The same will is expressed by the Government in the wider region of Piraeus. The honourable Member's question is when will the procedure for the publication of the joint ministerial decision concerning the area of Keratini be completed, a sensitive area where the government has responded to the request of self-government and an important area - some eighty-six acres - be granted, in order to develop many and special cultural activities of self-government. The joint ministerial decision has been signed by the speaker and is on the way to gather the remaining signatures to the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Energy in order to be published. So the process has begun and I believe, and with the follow-up we are doing in the course of this process, we will very soon have published this joint ministerial decision and now this long-standing issue, which was a central claim for local society and for self-government, will be implemented. With regard to the second request, which concerns several municipalities in the region, i.e. the Municipality of Piraeus, the Municipality of Perama, the Municipality of Salamis, we also have areas that can be used and exploited by the municipalities. We are already in a continuous consultation. Even today I can tell you, Mr President, that we had a consultation on this. On Wednesday we will have a meeting with all the mayors in order to make the announcements and to identify the areas that are now to be granted by legislation. The political will of the Ministry's and the government's political leadership is unequivocal and unequivocal. There should therefore be no concern, because this is a given decision, which I think has not been returned. It is a decision that will finally give the problem a solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u27	It's on the way, then. Mrs Cassimatis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u28	Mr Minister, first of all, we welcome the political will which we consider, as you yourself said, to be, in any case, because, after all, the Prime Minister himself immediately took away the demands of both self-government and those of the people, who have automatically, through or outside bodies, brought this kind of regaining contact with the maritime front. The 2nd Piraeus and all the municipalities that make up it are in direct contact with the port, it is a region linked to the history of the country, the tragedies, the refugee, the job. I would like to tell you that on the question of the urgency that we have put, in addition to the political will that has already been achieved, there are things that need to be run, because, for example, in Keracini, in the Lipamia area, some renewal works have begun, but the landscape is not set to go as it should be, that is, with the architectural contest and the right ones, so that there is a clean plan for the region. Because there are revocation clauses if the projects and concessions are not completed. The first is that. The second is that for the rest of the regions, the House must also know what issues exist in relation to the loose ends, so that we can also support the municipalities, in the case where there are obstacles in relation to the placement, in relation to the formalities needed to assist the ministries. You told us that you alone signed the joint ministerial decision. We are therefore maintaining that the other two ministries, namely the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Minister for the Environment and Energy, must speed up the signing. Also, as you will know, there is a great interest in the government in the area of the Second Piraeus, because it is precisely about people and cities who have suffered, as a mosaic, at a very high level, the consequences of the crisis. In fact, there are other concessions that are along the way. Recently it was decided to grant the ten acres of the second wing of the women's Korydallos prisons to the inhabitants and the municipality of Korydallos, to proceed with the regeneration work there. It's a landmark project, which will change the region's image. Interventions to social infrastructure and social fabric have been launched in many municipalities in Piraeus, first of all pilots in Perama, Salamis, Keracini and Drapetsona, the eight-month public works programmes with full insurance rights and the possibility of joining the unemployment fund after their termination.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u29	Mrs. Cassimatis, put on a perfection, time's up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u30	I'll put it in a minute, Mr. President. Thank you. Then they were applied both to Nice and to Korydallos. The swimming pool "Georgios Kasimatis" also progresses in Perama. With this, I would like to tell you that there is a great deal of tension and concentration on the part of the government so that the citizens of Piraeus can be relieved, and that, as we have said, we welcome the political will, we expect the signatures of the other two Ministers, and we expect the announcements and positions of the municipalities on the areas under concession on Wednesday. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u31	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u32	Mr President, the day before yesterday in Igoumenitsa we granted three hundred sixty-five acres of land area to the municipality. The same will happen here. Any areas that really need not be used for use by the ports of the region will be allocated to the municipalities that I had mentioned before, and we hope that the municipalities will make the best use of these areas. Because sometimes, to be honest, there's always this requirement from the government to take some land, but in the end it turns out to be difficult to exploit. We are determined to do so, and it is a given case in the first case mentioned by my colleague's question and in the second case. We are prepared, wherever we can, in any way, as a ministry to support this region, because it is really an area that has been tested very much by unemployment and by the crisis, Mr President. I have to say that we are very close to initiatives and efforts, which may gradually give the wider region a hope regarding the issues of unemployment and the revival of the famous shipbuilding repair zone, which for many and various reasons - which is not the time - has been in the state in which it is found. So there is a total and collective interest, there is planning on the part of the Ministry of Shipping, and I very soon think that all that we have discussed today - very soon, I mean it - will be a reality that will be at the disposal of self-government to manage it in the best possible way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, too. The third, with number 660/28-3-2017, topical question of the second question of the Samos MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Dimitrios Sevastakis to the Minister of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, on the reopening of the Sami TV and the context of the proper functioning of regional media, is not discussed due to a workload of the Minister for Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, Mr. Papa. Also, the fourth question under number 333/12-1-2017, on the financing of journalists and websites, of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Theodoros Papatheodorou to the Minister for Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, on the financing of journalists and websites, is not discussed due to a workload of the Minister for Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information Mr. Papa. The third, with number 682/3-4-2017, timely question for the first cycle of the MP Argolis of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMARMAR Mr.Ioannis Maniotis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the activation of the decision on the pilot study of the Argos' Zone of Economic Control (ZOE), is not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate on these reports has been completed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u34	We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all the draft law of the Ministry of Environment and Energy: 'Amendments to the provisions of forestry legislation and other provisions'. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting of 5 April 2017 to discuss the draft law in two meetings. I propose that the draft law should be uniform in principle, articles and amendments. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u35	The House therefore agreed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u36	Mr President, what time will plenary begin tomorrow?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u37	13:00 a.m. The rapporteur for SYRIZA, Mrs Catherine Iglez, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law of the Ministry of Environment and Energy: 'Amendments to the provisions of forestry legislation and other provisions' we are debating today came from the need to resolve the problems that have arisen as a result of the suspension of forest maps. To date, maps have been posted in the country's region and therefore most problems are focused on the problems encountered in rural areas. That is the main reason why most of the provisions in this bill concern the primary sector. It has also been made clear by the debate that this draft law is in the direction I have described and is obviously not a more comprehensive draft law on the redirection of forestry policy and forestry legislation, as we would like to see. However, it remains a bill that is realistic, which is necessary to move forward with the work of forest maps, a project that you are fighting a great deal, colleagues of the New Democracy and of the PASOK. And you fight it because you don't want it to be implemented in any way. Because your calls for the completion of the country's realisation are just words. Because the legislation you have introduced over all these years makes this work difficult and annulled in its essence. For you, forest maps and forest policy are, in general, a hostage tool for the people's strata and especially farmers, a hostage that you have used to many years to maintain in order to be able to chat with the world. From the years of postpopulation, our country has been following a model of development based on the waste of natural resources and on the manipulation of arbitrariness. Natural environment and land planning have been subject to the needs of facilitating all kinds of investors in tourism, industry, mining, construction, transport - and not endlessly - by preventing the development of other uses and often by dramatically degrading or destroying whole regions. So the printing of the public property and by extension of the ownership of the Greek State - in the case of forests and forest land - was very convenient to be vague. It was convenient for the service of the interactive and rousseft. And you want this situation today, gentlemen, to maintain it, when in every way you ask for the withdrawal and non-insurance of forest maps. So we, ladies and gentlemen, take the cost of effectively resolving the problems. We are taking the cost of the conflict with established interests. We are choosing to discuss with the world on the basis of problem-solving rather than on the basis of conciliation. The proposed arrangements are of this nature. Obviously, and we do not welcome the extraction of forests and forest land, especially those recently, in 2005 and 2006, have been discharged. Obviously, we firmly believe that a strong framework of protection for the benefit of and the country's productive reconstruction should be restored. However, we cannot ignore the problems that arise today by posting forest maps. Following the constitutional requirement for the protection of the natural environment and applying the laws of the state, we are in arrangements that give farmers the opportunity to resolve issues that have been left unresolved for decades. Colleagues, we have said many times - and I will repeat this today - that drawing up and validating forest maps is a basic infrastructure project and a self-evident tool for every modern and progressive state. It is a necessary tool with significant environmental value. This is the first time that a government dares to bring up forest maps with full awareness of the problems they present. That is because our policy is aimed at ensuring the law for citizens, their freedom from the paths of the past, the safeguarding of public property and the protection of nature. We insisted on amending the laws you created for the process of drawing up, suspension and ratification of forest maps in May 2016 and today we are entitled. And that, because the legal framework that you created proved you didn't want to become forest maps. In fact, this process had been frozen and devalued for many years. On the other hand, the compiled maps were found locked in the service drawers. We managed to activate forest services, mainly at the stage of the suspension of forest maps. It encouraged the effective and operational cooperation of the CRP, the private sector and forest services in order to speed up the project and resolve the problems that arise. The cost of the project decreased and many paid maps were used. The public sector demonstrates that when there is a structured plan and determination, it has the know-how and the ability to respond and ensure the public interest as due. You will even see in the articles of the bill that there is provision for the recruitment of scientific staff to carry out this work and for the support of forestry services. Ladies and gentlemen, because for us forest maps and logbooks are instruments of sustainable and fair development and not just another programme to serve business interests, we are fully aware of the problems raised by forest maps. They are problems that the Greek state has been unable to resolve systematically since the beginning of its establishment. We don't have the illusion that we're going to solve everything. But we have the confidence that we are introducing these procedures that are necessary to get them resolved. And that is what the arrangements of this draft law are. What have the posted maps shown us to date? That an area of 3% on the whole of the map was a forest, and today it has another form, mainly rural. This information is clear from the lists of regional maps. And that is a reality that we cannot ignore, and you know it very well. For SYRIZA the primary sector is a key pillar of the country's productive reconstruction, and therefore the problems that concern it we want to be tackled realistically and effectively. This, however, is a process that imposes obligations on both the state and farmers themselves. In recent years the rural world has been severely affected by the policies of the Common Agricultural Policy and the lack of national agri-food policy of the previous governments. This can be easily seen by the reduction of cultivated acres, which affects not only the products produced but also the export power of the country. If, then, we want the farmers who are currently producing to continue growing, we should give them the necessary tools to do so legally. It is incomprehensible for farmers to be in a continuous hostage regarding the legality of their farms and constant anxiety about the aid they receive. For sustainable rural development we should at some point be able to say for sure what belongs to farmed land, what in the forest, what in the public and what in the state. This draft law therefore contains amendments to forestry legislation, but on the other hand it also has characteristics of agricultural policy. And I am talking about agricultural policy, because, if we want the farmer today to operate in modern methods and in the context of the multifunctionality of the agricultural sector, this cannot be done on the basis of the question of the nature of the farmed areas, the imprisonment and the precariousness of the subsidies he receives. In this light, the provisions concerning outsourcing forests, forest areas before 1975 and 2007, which are so far cultivated, aim to solve decades' problems and put an end to the insecurity of the rural world. In no case shall any kind of ranch be imposed on farmers, as you are saying, ladies and gentlemen, of counter-population. If you are trying to match the settings we are proposing in figures, you will see that these are the amounts that the small- and medium-sized farmer today can pay. On the other hand, you know very well that we are coming today to abolish costs that you introduced into the 2014 legislation for the farmer. You had predicted economic studies for existing crops, a redemption price of 1/3 of the objective, with an obligation to pay in four six-monthly instalments, which we download in 1/4 of the objective, with the right to pay in 100 instalments, with a threshold of EUR 30. But it is time for everyone to take responsibility for it. As long as you resist common sense, the forest maps will be made and we will end up showing the present state of forests and forest land, but also rural areas. Only then can we design the future and protect the natural environment in substance. This draft law, therefore, contains provisions on simplification and promotion of the acquisition or use of outdated areas, a reduction in the cost of acquisition or use of land, while increasing the number of instalments, a suspension of the ratification of the forest map until the acquisition or concession procedure is completed, so that agricultural aid is not called into question. It also includes arrangements relating to the possibility of building for agricultural activity in allocated areas, the non-requirement to submit an economic study for the outdated areas between 1975 and 2007, which are part of the IAC system, the possibility of using the suspended forest map rather than the prevailing one, for the purpose of adopting a decision on the forest characterisation of an area - forest or forest -, the integration into the forested fields of the areas under a final act of characterisation, as well as the areas currently appearing in a rural form, the settlement of grassland that is field-based, but have not been classified as such in the past. Even some provisions of forestry legislation are included not directly related to forest maps, but with which, among other things, issues such as the placing of aquaculture on lands of a forestry nature are regulated. It also corrects problems in the institutional framework relating to the patrols of forest workers. Forestry staff shall be non-suitable civil servants with an interrogation function and due to the nature of their work they perform in the countryside and who are overnight. This is how they respond to forest protection and to rural security. This is not about overtime, but about nights due to patrol and by correcting this administrative deficit we give forest services the opportunity to be in their natural space, namely forests and countryside in general, in order to carry out their duties, especially at this time when the anti-nuclear period begins and their obligations are increased. Ladies and gentlemen, when problems arise, we also have an obligation to find solutions to this draft law. At the same time, farmers will cease to be the slaves of any political irresponsibility and, on the other hand, forest services will cease to be mainly employed in the adoption of characterisations, so they will be able to fulfil their basic duty, which is no more than the protection and development of the country's forest wealth. The protection of the natural environment is in no way conflicting with primary production or the development of entrepreneurship. After all, environmental protection must have a distinctly important place in development policy. This is because, for the country's productive reconstruction, the environmental factor is not an obstacle, but a prerequisite for social outlets and fair growth. This bill is a first step towards changing the country's forest legislation. However, the issues that need to be addressed are wider than those that are approached by these regulations. Forestry legislation as a whole, however, has undergone huge changes in recent years and in anti-environmental direction. We must put the real environmental and modern changes in forestry legislation in the public debate, which we need to serve fair and sustainable development, into changes that are necessary to ensure a credible future and democracy, which will encrypt the directions of the vision of a modern national forestry programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, too. Mr Screkas, rapporteur of the New Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Mr President. Indeed, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a very important issue, which also relates to the modernisation of the Greek state. Unfortunately, we are in the unfortunate situation in 2017 that the country does not have an integrated register, the country unfortunately does not know what forests it has and where it has them, citizens are hostages of this situation and, of course, there are serious responsibilities of previous Greek administrations, state, officiality, ministries and the political system in general, mainly responsible for the administrations, but also for those who are in opposition every time. At any time the state, the elected government, in its attempts to solve the problem, reacted and put enormous obstacles, insuperable obstacles, so that the matter does not go any further, that the country will not be given back. It would really be a great opportunity today, which we are discussing this very important issue, to provide a definitive solution, through consensus, through dialogue, so that the hostages of citizens - particularly farmers and farmers - can be stopped, and the country can move on to the next step, now being a modern, integrated state. Unfortunately, however, the government is coming in with this wrong and bad legislative practice that it follows last Wednesday night and submits the proposed draft law. In less than eighteen hours he called on the Members of the Greek Parliament - the Coupling and Reconciliation - to discuss the proposed draft law, thus prohibiting and not allowing interested parties, institutions and Members to study on the substance and in depth this draft law, to see what the problems are and to have a convergence. Unfortunately, problems arise and errors arise, which prove to be wrong, as the government runs during the debate, whether in committee or in plenary, to bring legal corrections - as it will continue to bring to the conclusion of the drafting of the bill - but there are, as I say below, some issues which, if they have not become unconscious, actually cause laughter to those who are reading. So rough is the bill. A solution could, in fact, be found. Instead, the government chose to even use this opportunity to send a carpet, a mandatory double charm. After the tax reduction, following the pension cuts, which it agreed with the institutions abroad, it now sends Greek farmers a double sprinkle - I repeat - of many tens of millions of euros, perhaps hundreds of millions of euros, which, unfortunately, Greek farmers are unable to pay for, with a risk of losing their own land. The problem is that, unfortunately, this situation and this money will be called upon to pay it - and it will be very difficult - especially small and medium-sized farmers. I am referring, of course, to the problem, which is essentially identified in Article 2 and those which it conceals. He spoke to my fellow rapporteur for the Coupling and, allegedly, he was anxious for the farmers and what they are going through and said they find it difficult to survive in the Greek countryside. The SYRIZA - ANEL government, however, very easily sends one rejoicing after the other. Remind me of the increase in VAT on supplies - even increased VAT in straw - with which farmers feed their animals. I would remind you of the increase in income tax, the increase in the contributions of the OGA, the increase in agricultural oil and a series of increases, which not only support the primary sector and farmers and farmers, but also raise insurmountable obstacles, which unfortunately lead thousands of farmers to abandon their land, and in this way to shrink agricultural production, but also these people are in unemployment and there is no way of feeding and living their families. Mrs Inglezi condemned the bills that New Democracy had brought before us. Let me note that, for the first time, Law 998/1979, which was trying to give some solutions at the time, had come to New Democracy. Even Law 4280 and Law4315 on New Democracy have come. It was the first steps then to provide a permanent solution for farmers. I am not saying that this effort was completed and it was not completed, ladies and gentlemen, because then it was SYRIZA in opposition, who was shouting and sloganing and was against these legislative initiatives. He even said that they were forests, that they were against forests and against the public interest. And now you're coming with an unbearable lightness, and you're voting for these bills again. Because when you come and amend a single article from a whole law and the rest of the law you do not touch it at all - and I am referring to Law 4280 - it means that by voting to amend an article, you are voting again, you are giving a vote of confidence to the entire bill at that time, for which you were reacting at that time. But today, with great love, you support it! What's the real problem? Sadly, one and a half acres, which are today agricultural land, appear from the aerial photographs of 1945 that they were forest lands, forests or rocky lands. The result is that the use on these lands has changed in the 1940s, in the 50s and 60s, when it was trying to recover the nation, Greece, when the trend was to base the Greek economy on agricultural and livestock production - especially agricultural production - using agricultural land, which they cultivated. Then, unfortunately, a number of owners, whose descendants own these lands today, changed the use of land and of forests, which were in 1945, turned them into cultivated agricultural land. I'm focusing on those cases. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, these people who have inherited the land from their ancestors and are cultivating it until now or have bought this land, have repeatedly paid a inheritance tax, a transfer tax and an EPA tax. You, as a Greek state will also send us, as a Greek Parliament, will agree to send these people a hunch for those changes, changes in land use or - most important of all - a buy-out price, since there is, unfortunately, a serious question from the public. Because it appears to be forest land in 1945, then there is the presumption of public ownership and therefore all the titles of these areas are questioned. To have recognised legal qualifications, do they have to follow a procedure that can last for more than fifteen years and which has not been followed in those decades, in those stone years? In order to recognise titles, ladies and gentlemen, since 1945 these areas have been seen as forests, it should either be followed by a procedure of judicial disputes with the public or should have appealed to the Forestry Committees that were in place at the time to obtain recognised titles of ownership. This has not been done by anyone. It has been done by few and, above all, by large owners, so we say that today they will have to pay this ranch, which you call it the purchase price, especially those who are small and medium-sized farmers. Apart from that, we have the price, the money for the environmental balance. You come and say that for these usage changes a financial consideration must be paid, so that it can be legalised, ratified and continued to be cultivated by the beneficiary. You are even coming and mentioning Mr.4280/2014, which was indeed voted on in the New Democracy. There Article 9 included the fact that holders of public and non-agricultural land, which were in 1945 forests, are obliged to pay for a sum of money. This law, however, has not been completed, Mr Stathakis and Mr Famele. That was the beginning. In fact, the intention of the legislator was different. For this reason, and in paragraph 5 of Article 47, as amended by Law 4280, a provision is described which states that, for reasons of public interest, forest areas and areas, which have been evacuated for agricultural use before the 1975 Constitution enters into force, and which maintains that use until now, is not subject to the provisions of forestry legislation, which prohibits any other use by the holder. This was the intention of the legislator at the time not to pay for money the owners of those cultivated land, who had changed their use before 1975. And we call on you here today to come and see it again and not to send a raisin - I repeat - which can exceed all 250 million euros, since we are talking about one and a half million acres, for which they will have to pay for the majority of them and the purchase price and also the price of money. We invite you to come here and discuss this. We are talking about these people who today, as you legislate, the before 1975 and the aftermath of 1975 are almost assimilated. Because after 1975 the people will be called in a financial return, which will be equal to or greater than those before 1975, to continue to possess the land, to use it, to cultivate it, without, of course, having the title of ownership, and the owners of the land, who are simply not recognized. We call on you to find a solution not to send - I repeat - an account today to the farmers and especially to those farmers who used the land in the 1950s, 1960s and 1970s, and that today these lands have been inherited by some of their descendants, who are struggling to survive in the Greek countryside, to cultivate and help the Greek economy and production and the primary sector. Really, Minister, why is this bill not signed by the Minister for Rural Development, Mr Apostleou? Why does he sign it, in his absence, say, as we have seen, Mr. Chironis? Is there a conflict between the Ministerial Council? Does Mr Apostle agree with the laws you bring? Does it agree to send an account of around EUR 250 per acre to farmers who grow their land from 1945 to 1975, when today the annual income that they have does not exceed EUR 50 or 100? Do you agree to send such an account? Will you do it after all? I will look after the articles, but I would like to tell you this and I would ask you very much to think about it, to discuss it and to consult the officials until tomorrow. In Article 4, you describe that there is no need for an economic study for those who go to declare the land and have paid the intervention price, as you say, if they go to declare the land in the IACC. And you don't need 30 acres to pay and draw up an economic study. I should like to point out that this economic study has a cost which, depending on the extent, can reach EUR 4,000 and EUR 5,000, as appropriate. For the cases referred to in Article 2, i.e. those which have evacuated their estates before 1975, do not indicate whether an economic study is needed and the provision which requires them to be charged to prepare an economic study will apply. As regards Article 4, for after 1975, there is no need for an economic study. For Article 2, i.e. before 1975, they will pay an economic study. Is that rough, wrong or conscientious decision and legality? Please answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, too. Mr. Jellonis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are spending the Great Week, the Week of Passions. However, after the agreement on the third assessment has been made public, with terms for defeat, the one who is crucified once again by the tragic mistakes of the SYRIZA - ANEL conflict is, unfortunately, the Greek people. In fact, I wonder, from the reintroduction of the thirteenth or fourteenth pensions and the restoration of wages, where are we going today? We go to pension cuts and disappear a 580 euro wage, the minimum wage, with the tax-free less than 6,000. Sadly, for you, false words last a little. However, we can see that you are once again national proud of this total disaster. We have moments of complete irrationality and insanity since yesterday. Honestly, I wonder, are you not finally tired of mocking your own people, gentlemen of the Couple, and then the Greek people? Ladies and gentlemen, before I enter the analysis of the bill, I would also like to say that, in my turn, legislating serious bills in the urgency procedure, rather than being exceptional, has become normal with SYRIZA - ANEL. Why have you not brought to the House in the usual parliamentary procedures such important bills, such as environmental protection and public property, and ultimately the public interest? You want me to tell you why? Because you come into this Chamber today and you are presenting as national saviors for things that we were calling you some time ago and complaining in this Chamber that they will happen. But you, losers of the "first time left", think that all government failures and inability are being purified. What do we have today? Once again, you are "white" your own provisions, trying to correct the huge problems that have arisen with forest maps. For example, as the posters progressed, the chaos revealed was huge. An example is the Elijah Law, where 38.1% of the two million four hundred eighty-eight thousand acres on the posted forest map are lands that have been declared resurrectable, while they have another form, mainly rural. The same happens, among other things, for 24% of the three million forty - nine thousand acres in Achaea. The same is happening in Evia or Messiah. In most of these cases, the responsible bodies, after fires, were declared under arrest to be resurrected areas, without bothering to consider their character. Ladies and gentlemen, the issue of forest maps is crucial politically and socially. As far as the political part is concerned, our forests are a renewable natural resource, a pillar of agricultural and environmental policy. At social level, the issue of forest maps concerns hundreds of thousands of our fellow citizens throughout the country, whether they are owners of land or farmers self-employed, small and medium-sized businessmen, tourist accommodation and those who are suffering from the way you are posting. Minister, instead of applying the law applicable to forest maps, you passed a new law, despite our objections and, finally, what you have achieved was to create panic and anger the citizens. The problems were too much. I will also tell you: The limited time to submit objections, the high cost of an objection, the high cost of an unjustified viability study for each agricultural parcel that would change, the high cost of obtaining use in agricultural parcels that the value and value of production were small, the absence of a project to manage objections and the lack of appropriate support offices in the counties of the country, the absence of information on forest maps before they were posted with additional information, such as the elements of the settlement records of afforestations, settlement plans and cities, and of course the OSEI's elements for the payment of Community aid. What proved to be the case? That once again the king is naked. That when one is being raped too much, it makes mistakes and many important ones. These mistakes have brought back to the wall the Greek farmers, whom you have stumbled with your policy, together with your policies. Since you created a second tax-based mechanism next to the tax-based mechanism, you have now come with the forest maps and put a third collector mechanism in order to milk what's left. These are the results of your policy, these are the results of your Government's full management failure. The question remains: could it not before maps were posted to exclude agricultural parcels subsidized by OPEKEPE for many years? Of course they could, if you applied the provision of Law 4820/2014, which said that all the parcels subsidised on the basis of the single aerial photography made in 2007 and which had been available to the Ministry of the Environment and OPEKEPE are excluded. Couldn't the town plans be excluded from forest land? It could have been used by maps or, if towns had been asked to give the boundaries of settlements and town plans and simply place them on the backgrounds. This process doesn't get me out of my head. It is a process which was envisaged in the previous context. But you changed the control process and the forests were left without support and they did nothing. For the deadlock and the dangers of this change we have warned you in time. But then you knew better. But the point that is about laughing and crying is in the provision that you changed in September for the purchase price of agricultural parcels. I'll remind you what you did. You have abolished the symbolic price laid down by the previous law at the high price of investing in tourists, making redundant for farmers and farmers unjustified, and today you come and resuming that amount, turning to the logic of the previous law, with which we agree. All to say that you did something, and in fact all you did is create problems. Your policy of "vote and then vote for, denounce the PASOK and then adopt its measures, but say that we have thought about them". Ladies and gentlemen, for us, forest maps are a development tool. We believe that no matter how difficult it is for the Greek state, this process must be completed and a problem must be solved, which is aroused by the creation of the Greek state. Impressive, however, your position on CEDEFOP matters has also been provoked. I would like to ask a question and answer me, Minister: how responsible and prejudiced are you dealing with this issue in relation to the IACC? Especially in my prefecture, in Serres Prefecture, this had serious consequences for what is forest, what is pasture, but also for farmers and farmers throughout the country. I would like to ask and inform us how many millions of acres the forests are in Greece, how many pastures are and how much the cultivated areas are, to see if you really have an objective knowledge of what we're talking about. What is the rate of forests in our country, and what is the ranking, in relation to the other twenty-seven countries of the European Union? Bring us these facts and we will then talk about all these inaccuracies that you have said about the IAS and the rest of the captives among the government's ministers, to see if you are ultimately irrelevant or you cannot understand the problem. In 2011, the PASOK government took a very important step in this direction with Mr.3889. Tens of millions of forest map studies were invested. The forest maps were also drawn up for 50% of the country's area. In twenty-two prefectures were considered by the forests and waited for their ratification. Today they have been ratified by this process seventy-two maps throughout the country. For example, in Attica we had ratification of forest maps in Penteli, Marathon, Kifisia. In Thessaloniki, too, we had maps sanctioned. Also in Drama, Kozani, Arcadia. Overall we had ratified about nine hundred and thirty - four thousand acres of forest maps. You found the process under way and two years after you left it frozen. This is, unfortunately, the reality. I would like to stress that there is now a question of parity in the twenty-two regions that have already been ratified. I think you should consider the possibility of re-establishing these areas with the new provisions in order to restore this equivalence. Because, if this does not happen, we will have two categories of citizens, we will also have the citizens who went with the previous process at a higher price and with fewer facilities. It has no cost, because the backgrounds are real. We believe that you should also consider in these areas the possibility of having a new post with new rules. Our rapporteur has also tabled ten proposals to the committee, which were discussed in the bill, for which he has not received any reply, Mr Minister. I would like to repeat them, because we consider them to be very important, so that the process can be more effective and operational. Firstly, for the afforestation of small areas, where interventions are being made, a safe and practical procedure must be found to have a substantial potential for implementation to ensure that the environment is protected. Secondly, the price of the acquisition of parcels which have been exported and which have been in the use of farmers for years must be too small, so that farmers and farmers can pay it. In other words, do not refer to a tax procedure. The evidence of their possession must be used - beyond legal assurances - and all the other documents of the state which the user holds, such as the E9 and the statements. Fourthly, it is necessary to regulate small infrastructure issues for the operation of farms, such as shelters and drilling. It is also important to provide solutions to land-based farms in order to facilitate this important production activity for our country and not to be forced to make such facilities near beaches or small ports. It must also be simplified to change the use of agricultural units and not to subject the citizen to bureaucratic procedures costing time and money. Provision should be made for the safe procedure for agricultural parcels that emerged between 1975 and 2007 and for satellite images and aerial photographs to be used in this direction. So we will be able to distinguish farmers from the trespassers. It is also crucial to enable private grassland to be exploited. This solution is valuable for protecting the land of high productivity, which currently accepts all the pressure of housing and investment development. Finally, it is crucial that there are transitional provisions and that all these changes should be adjusted. On this basis, we are in favour of completing the ratification of the procedures for forest maps. But we expect you to accept the changes that we have proposed and will simplify the procedure. We also disagree vertically with the bakaliist logic and the way we legislate in very serious development bills, such as this one. Not all of these bills can be in the form of urgency, because neither are we able to listen to the bodies, but also to place those bodies concerned with these bills. Also, we cannot agree to vote like this every time. This theater of irrationality from your side must end sometime.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Mr. Jelloney. Mr. Shahinides has the floor since the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Mr President. In fact, I thought you would stop astonishing me every time it comes to debate and vote on a draft law but, unfortunately, this is not the case. Listening to the speakers on all the other bills that have come to date, but also to all the previous ones from the three parties, either the rapporteurs or the special speaker for this bill, but also all the others in the committees, it seems to me that you have not been living in this country until now, as if you were all immigrants and you were here today. We have heard about a lot of 'necessary' things that need to be done and proposals. Tell us, over the last few years, except for the Golden Dawn, didn't all of you in here rule? In other words, you really get to a point and you think you will continue to mock the Greek people. Find out that, unfortunately, for you the Greek people have begun to wake up and unfortunately for you they have begun to watch the channel of the Parliament. So from now on you must be very careful, because you're being exposed on your own. You haven't been taught in history. I will tell you one thing: Remember - and if I am wrong, I accept any intervention to correct me - that always, but always, the ordinary people rebelled and rose for one single reason, for the unfavourable taxes they imposed. Let's see what's changed today. They've only changed the names. Then they were kings, they were tyrants, they were feudalists. Today there is your democracy, you exist, the constitutional arch. Sit down and talk, as if you haven't been through the government. SYRIZA is unjustified, because 3% of SYRIZA came today to rule 97% of SYRIZA and enforce his opinion. Previous speakers spoke about pensioners and farmers. Didn't you beat them? Didn't you just dig those tires? Didn't you call them honored old age? Where'd all this go? You really have great courage to come here and make suggestions from the Step of the House, which you had all the years before you to implement and give solutions. You don't want to give solutions. But here I have one thing to tell you: where you are will come and where we are you will go. You understand what you're doing! At some point in the short and immediate future, unfortunately for you, there will be a national government. And if we take it historically, only with national governments could the nations magnify. And I come to the draft law. All you've achieved with the forest maps is to cause total inconvenience to the owners of rural land. I repeat that you have created a great deal of forest maps. Crops, settlements, public buildings, squares appear as forests. First and second degree Local Government Organisations have requested suspension of this process of suspension and ratification of forest maps. Unfortunately, while you were aware of the reactions and problems of the world, you were tabling amendments for continuous extensions and deadlines to submit objections. You have prepared a new bill with constant amendments to previous laws and suspicious provisions, of course. In fact, you are termed 'urgent'. It is a matter of urgency that we find a solution that accommodates local communities, and even when the deadlines laid down by you have been exceeded. But there was time to prepare yourself properly and bring in a bill that would really make a difference and provide substantial solutions. As I said before, you continue the practice of the previous governments - which some have described as 'forests', because of the way in which the forest maps are handled - by clarifying, on a case-by-case basis, what forest cruisers have created, which they have produced without permission and under the pretext of agricultural exploitation. We see that, as I had told you in the committees, in Articles 2, 4 and 5. In this direction, unfortunately, the use of affidavits as proof of ownership contributes, of course, by various other documents. Once again, however, these are banned as a element of the legalisation of the outdated and illegally outdated areas, in particular for proof of possession of land after 1975. And here it is important to clarify, as we respect the customary rules, which were in place before 1975 and applied to land use and land-uses, since the right to land was derived from its chronic use, without titles being drawn up and had power, because the parties simply gave hands. As far as the accompanying documents are concerned, what will simply give legality, we have nothing to add. As regards the illegal evacuations during the years 1975 to 2007, we have nothing but to mention the view of the Minister, Mr. Apostleos, in 2014, who said "four months after the forests of Law 4280/14 come to disappear the last spark of protection offered to the natural environment by Articles 24 and 117 of the Constitution". You are going to the point - because I was caused by my dear colleague earlier - to reward trespassers who illegally expelled public forest land from 1975 to March 2007. It is commonly accepted that the alalum you have created with the forest maps began with the use of the 1945 aerial photographs - and we were the first to talk about it in the committees, and today we have listened, with great pleasure, to adopt our views and other speakers - without taking into account rural areas and changes in the relief of the earth. We have said so to the committees, there have been corrosions, there have been fires, and they have absolutely nothing to do with them. We have made proposals to you, Minister. We've also thought of something else. If you do not have the opportunity to get new aerial photographs, there are ready Google Maps maps that you can get them and according to them to do the forest maps. Observations are also a big issue, as we cannot believe that in relation to the problems created by forest maps, what concerns us most, is the observance of astronomy and the related infrastructure. Of course, it is the aim of the provision, because it wants to be lawful in observance which has not received the necessary permission and which is called upon to settle it within three years, or to overcome some obstacles in order to build the necessary facilities and to show the opposing will of local societies and bodies involved. A completely inconsistent provision to the content of the bill under consideration is the concession of two parcels from the Greek State to the Municipality of Ioannites concerning the Yannio Salon or the Prínella Park. The Pysinella Park came to the Municipality of Ioannistes after the legacy of the Kingdom of Pysinella. This unique recreational space, which is also environmentally well-being, is located in the Gianniotic salon with other related uses, counts about fifty years of life as a park. A few years ago, it was not declared in time in the Land register, as provided for in the law, and a judicial decision, a recognizing the rights of the municipality, was required, according to which, however, this case was complicated due to the intervention of the Greek State, which appeared to be the owner, questioning the ownership of the municipality, so the park was legally owned by the Municipality of Ioannites and remains to see how this would be exploited. In completing this draft law, which is fragmentary, it does not provide solutions, Minister, nor does it put the chaos of previous legislation to order. It does not solve the structural problems of Greek agriculture, nor does it reassurance the thousands of farmers who have been upset before the posts of the forest maps. Forestry services should have been adequately staffed rather than waited for CSR recruitment to technical staff - indeed one issue arises here, because there is no indication of their specificity - which will help seasonally to put up and ratify the maps. The protection of forests is, therefore, a constitutional obligation of the state, but at the same time, there should be respect for individual property and safeguarding legality. When the bodies were heard, we found that the majority of the bodies objected and had reservations about the draft law. However, this is the case when a draft law is not put to consultation and when there is no dialogue. The other big issue I mentioned before, with the aerial photographs, we think you will at some point solve it, Minister. As far as the articles are concerned, I shall refer only to 7, 8 and 9. For Article 7, which refers to forestry officials - who spend the night in the countryside for forest protection carried out by forestry services and who pay a full daily allowance with a limit of forty-five nights a year - we are positive and will be placed in the vote. But it should be, Minister, because there has been a lot of amendments before the debate begins and because the President told us that it would be at the outset, on the articles and amendments, to clarify them to us.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u45	It's tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u46	Not today he told us. He singled out today. I heard it well. You should inform us, Minister, what will be accepted. Either with the rapporteurs or at some point take the floor. With regard to Article 8 to which I referred before and with regard to the two parcels, it is good because it is somehow guaranteed. Because if these two parcels of the Municipality of Ioannis remained the ownership of the Greek State, there was a very serious possibility that it might, at some point, be passed on to the supreme use of the public property with the known results. With regard to Article 9 relating to the amendment of provisions on the provision of services of general interest, the exemption is provided for by the exemption of beneficiaries for multitude and beneficiaries of the social household invoice from charges for all such consumption. The question of the unequal treatment of the beneficiaries of the social household invoice and the invoice of trousers equipped with night current consumption meters is resolved. Until now, the multitudes have normally paid charges, except for those periods which were otherwise defined by ministerial decision or by short-term amendments, in previous legislation. Others are defined as the ceiling of the exemption for four-monthly consumption applicable to each category of beneficiaries. It is an arrangement that moves in the right direction, except that it should have immediate effect. It is a good opportunity to revise electricity tariffs in general, since it is estimated that four out of ten Greeks, Minister, are delaying because of the crisis to pay off public utility bills, and that there are accumulated debts of EUR 2.6 billion. As far as the amendments are concerned, I shall refer to the amendment with a general number of 1007 and with a specific number 123. The provision is proposed for sports facilities with a capacity greater than fifteen thousand viewers, for the construction and operation of which openings or road configurations and other accompanying works are required, for the approval of traffic, technical and research supports, for the issue of relevant attestations for the issue of permits for the construction, construction or supervision of projects, to be exercised by the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, which is responsible for implementing national infrastructure projects. This amendment provides for targeted changes in the building regulation concerning sports facilities and for the construction of the AEK's territory, bringing an end to the conflict with the municipal authorities. The position of Golden Dawn is in favour of the building of the field at the natural seat of the AEK, Nea Philadelphia, as AEK is entitled to build sports facilities in the area with respect to the environment while maintaining the forest character of the island. However, we have said so in the debate on the regulatory plan of Athens in 2014, and we repeat it now, that any intervention and exploitation beyond the allocated acres of private and business interests will find us across the board. The amendment with a general number of 1004 and a special number of 120 is another amendment, which proves the government's rough and mislegislation. It applies to fixed-term recruitments to short-term improvements organisations. It doesn't give real solutions. The problem is that the surveillance of TWGs and GFCFs has gone to the ITAs. The information we have heard - and indeed in the committees too - is that, together, all municipalities do not want to be supervised either by the TWGs or by the GFCFs, because for those who do not know, the management boards made up of the local bodies for improvements are the farmers themselves. So they have a direct picture of the farmers' economic situation, who should be preferred to take up the well-known fairy, the ones who regulate the working hours and when each farmer will be watered. It would be nice to leave them alone and save them from the supervision of the OTAs, because unfortunately we know very well that what has happened to the municipalities and indeed the "Kalikrati" project, which is criminal against Greek citizens, has destroyed the decentralisation that has been created over the last forty years and has created a policemanship. We have said this on several occasions. Golden Dawn will correct the bad texts overnight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u47	Mrs Diamanto Manolakou has the floor from the JRC.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u48	We are in the process that the Maltese agreement is interpreted as a success and a right for the government, and it concerns anti-grassroots escalation, linked to the new pension slaughterhouse, the further crushing of the tax-free threshold by strengthening tax fraud, the extension of privatization, etc. The countermeasures, if any, will be for capital, and that is why you leave it blurred, that is, period of suffering without a resurrection. The chapter serves with your anti-French policy and with this bill on amendment of provisions of forestry legislation. Moreover, the implementation of forest maps and the Land register was in the prerequisites of the memoranda. The proposal of the Greek Industrial Association, as formulated a month ago, highlighted the use of public property in collaboration with the supreme privatisations and quickly asked for a clear landscape on earth. The same in the sectoral studies of the financial sector, which describes the unique physical features that make the land of Greece an excellent valuable asset in relation to other countries that will attract investment funds for the purchase of land and the construction of mainly tourist infrastructure, provided that there is no vague land use for each parcel. Your golden opportunity has given it the problems arising from the recent suspensions of forest maps, which have highlighted and revealed all kinds of changes in the use, nature, destination of forests and forest areas, and especially agricultural changes in areas that have become houses, settlements, industrial facilities, tourist businesses, etc. These changes have taken place in private, state and questionable areas. They, of course, highlight the political responsibilities of both the previous urban governments and the current government, since they continue with this bill the same urban policy on earth and its use, which aims to serve the investment projects of the monopolist groups in this sector each time. Because in the name of resolving existing issues, such as questioning the nature of the agricultural land that has always been cultivated or forested, and now is eligible and receiving aid and subsidies, but unrealistic imprinting would call into question the possibility of continuing agricultural land or the eligibility of grazing land, so that farmers would be deprived of agricultural income. But you have gone further. You legalise the mining without the authorisation of a forestry service, i.e. state forests and forest land from 1975 to 2007. That's unconstitutional. There will be appeals and your law will fall. You know that. We, of course, don't know if you have any more plans. The report of the House's Scientific Service on unconstitutionality also writes something. Instead of making a distinction between those who turned it into agricultural land for bio-poverty reasons - and these people must continue to use, cultivate to live - you put them in the same pot as those who ejected it, who trampled to win by changing use, building and selling. How do you do it? With horizontal declassifications that appear in all their greatness in Article 6. And it is characteristic that the Minister for Rural Development disagrees: "If such solutions are implemented, any declassification may be altered to a tool of rewarding tramps, because it cannot be separated from the outdated fields into eligible rural areas and in residential trespasses" and it goes on, in any case, "we do not want the rural world to be used as a pretext in order to declassify areas that are really forestal". I'm reading his exact words. However, that is exactly what you are doing and at the same time you are pretending to be interested in the farm, which, with your anti-popular policy, has been shattered. And now that you are questioning the field they grow, they will be forced to pay again. And you pretend you serve them. At the same time, the big winners will be the professional trespassers. Good for you! After all, in the ministerial decisions you are preparing - and especially in the case of so-called obvious errors - you will use them for massive declassifications and constant objections, so you are hypocritical about forest maps, because practically there will be no forest maps. That is why we support the fact that you have taken advantage of the existing problems of farmers who have not exceeded nine hundred thousand acres and have massively changed the use of land to over ten million acres, characterised as forests and forest areas, which have been imprisoned, excavated or sought to legalise them, and that is, in fact, linked to property in order to facilitate the tourism industry and construction capital in increasing their profitability, by tracing obstacles that were, in particular, under Article 24 of the Constitution that you once supported, but now throw it into the basket of the unused. Furthermore, the provocative provision in Article 6(5), paragraph 5, where vegetarian areas of the islands which have been protected by forest legislation for decades from the efforts and appetites of capital, are to become plots and large hotel units to gain certain majestics, with this article today, the interests of construction groups and certain foreign investors are met. Replacement of Article 44b of Law 998/1979, as applicable, is the right of all offenders. Of course you have the support of the PASOK - and let it vote against - which is another party that has passed forest law. It justifiably accuses you that this bill guarantees even more that New Democracy - PASOK, which you said you would abolish, since according to this law the capitalist can invest, without owning or having to change forest character, ensuring legality of interventions in forest ecosystems for profitable group investment. \ The privatisation of state forests and forest land through concession is a method of state financing the monopolies, since the investments concerned are carried out at exceptionally small costs for land, and I do not know whether in future the decisions of your courts are called back, remember that, since the new article you are adding are, in principle, legalised and finally released by the provisions of forestry legislation, all the areas claimed as forest land on the forest maps. Clearly, these provisions are included outside forest land and forests, and there are now various constructions within them. In fact, by abolishing the conditions and commitments, such as drawing up an economic study, in addition to facilitating the process of providing all kinds of offenders with all kinds of infringements, they will be able to facilitate the legalisation of areas which have been imprisoned for various purposes by their farming. Furthermore, the exemption of the afforestation or afforestation obligation and the exemption from the obligation to adopt an act of designation shows that in future there will be a complete decommitment from the provisions of forestry legislation, permitted and uses other than agricultural farming. The association of the above legitimisation procedures with the abolition of the Forest Charter will ultimately exclude from the normal ratification procedure all the areas for which applications will be made, which, together with the exception of Article 23 of Law 389, as amended by Law 4389/2016, will be dealt with by rousphetological arrangements. Even under paragraph 10 of Article 17 of Law 389, a six-month period is set for examining the requests and completing the procedures referred to in Article 47 and Article 47b, given the total inability to support staff and the means of forestry mapping already reached by these services. The complete decommitment, therefore, by the provisions of the forestry legislation of all infringements, is reinforced by the remaining interventions of the project, such as the withdrawal of protocols, administrative dismissals, the possibility of transferring land and so on. So you are struggling with existing problems that are affecting people's needs and must somehow be resolved, but you put them as a shield, you have other objectives, and that is why you only accept affidavits, allowing them to acquire titles of ownership of non-existent ones. Inadmissible! It is very clear that what is being served is the urban order strategy for the development of the capitalist economy, namely the service of interests of monopolistic business groups through sustainable green development, the transformation of Greece into a hub of goods and energy and the development of tourism with an external orientation for high and medium-income tourists and mild tourist development, according to the proposals made by banks, tourist institutions and tourist groups. What we describe is known, has been written. The political intensity of the capitalist exploitation of land and its use also presupposes changes in the ownership regime from state to privately owned part of the earth or their long-term rental when we talk about the substantial declassification of millions of acres, the assignment of state areas, forest ecosystems and coastal areas, the formation and implementation of actions to ensure returnability to each activity on the earth, the strengthening of profitability and business activity in off-project areas and the legitimisation of activities that have so far been illegal. That is why, if you wish, land policy is a link between a chain of legislation that promotes the marketing of land, changes its use for the benefit of big capital, implement European Union directives and respond to the same needs. For the Communist Party of Greece from the point of view of the interests of the working class and the popular strata, the land and its use, forest ecosystems are social goods. They must be common property and on this basis also the implementation and exploitation of forest maps and logbooks are design and development tools to meet people's needs as an element of philosophical political land use. That is why we believe that all the legislative framework of the civil state that favours groups should be abolished. We are therefore voting against the anti-environmental, rouspheological, collecting bill. It goes hug with the anti-French policy you have and you implement it quickly. The amendments will be put to the vote tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u49	Mr. Lazarides, special speaker of the ANLLs to come to Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Mr President. There is no doubt that the bill is in the right direction. He tries to give solutions to pathogens, which come and come too many years from decades and which are pathogens were due to abuses or misinterpretations many times of the very complex and blurred landscape in terms of forestry legislation. And here's the secret, Minister. I think the key to finally giving a solution to this whole situation is putting it down and making forest legislation, which is simple and can be understood by every citizen. He won't be able to misinterpret it and give any interpretation every employee wants from every office. I do not disagree, the vast majority of the officials of the forest offices are honest, but there are also some who are fleeing from the rule of honesty and the complexity of forestry legislation. I will bring you a recent example, which some Halkidiki friends have told me, and that is something you will see, Minister, now with the forest maps and I refer to Paliouri, which is one of the most tourist regions in Halkidiki. It could be said that it is the tip of the spear in terms of attracting tourism and especially high-quality tourism, for example, of high incomes. My report has to do with the "XENIA" of Paliouri, which, when the well-known Greek businessman, Ivan Savvidis, bought it in order to make use of it, make facilities there, etc., the topographics that were delivered to him, showed that about 10% of the total area had to do with forest vegetation and the remaining 90% was free and was available for use, etc. And suddenly on maps, do you know what's going on? The whole opposite. Appears more than 80% of the total surface area as a forest and the rest is available for recovery. So what happens in this case? He's a businessman willing to invest, he's transferred some land with S.A. and then change all the data irreversibly? I shall refer to some cases and then, where it seems exactly how unarmed the citizen is to some agencies. Here I would like to continue to tell you this, Minister. On the issue of objections to forest maps, we must pay very close attention to the composition of the committees examining the objections. It's very important. If the objections are dealt with by the forests or, in any case, exclusively by forest workers or forestists, it is as if we were to consider it to be a matter of forest land in the first place. If we want to ensure that the decisions are inconsistent and to give greater authority to the decisions made by the committees, their composition should be composed of various specialities - scientists, and not exclusively by forestists. For example, he must have localists - photointerpreters, geoponists, also have a geologist, to have a representative of local government. In other words, it should be a composition which ensures as much validity as possible in its decisions. With regard to aerial photographs, our view is that photography should be used in areas where we cannot obtain data from the land registers. Because, as I have said before, the land registers, either from this step of the House or from the committee, are the tables which provide the most reliable information, either on the use or on the extent of the plot. This is because the land registers were drawn up at a time when no one had any reason to present other elements than reality. Because we are talking about legacy - even though it is important for the parcels, the old property - which is a special case and have been cleared as to their ownership status, but also as to the use, that is to say, status, of the land registers. In cases where we have no real estate tables, where we are dealing with old property, then we will use the aerial photographs, not by using only 1945, because it is very low-resolution and we have struggling phenomena. We have villages pre-existing in 1922, which do not appear in the aerial photographs. An example is Metagichi, a village in Halkidiki, which does not appear in the aerial photographs of 1922. We've got a lot of other cases. For example, trees that have nothing to do with forest vegetation, due to the low analysis of photographs, are seen interpreting them as forests or forest lands. For this reason, the first priority is the use of land registers. Mr President, as far as the rescued fields are concerned, there are no'saving fields'. It is a legal term that does not exist in any country in the world. Only in Greece do we find this thing. It is what we say, the blurred landscape, which surrounds forestry legislation in our country, which enables trade under the table and interpretations as everyone wants. We had a debate in the committees and it was said - I do not remember by whom - that there is an article in the constitution that makes reference to the forested fields. There is no such article of the Constitution. Articles 17 and 24 of the Constitution, which deal with forests and forest land, do not speak anywhere of forested fields. What I wanted to say is that we also have cases in which fields have been forested not because they have been abandoned by farmers or the owners, but by events that have occurred against the will of farmers or owners. And such phenomena we have where they are misinterpreted by some of the officers' decisions on reafforestation. It is what we were talking about at an earlier meeting here, where I said that they were pulling a line on a map of one to twenty thousand and saying that what is inside the line is refreshing, giving an immersion which, in the end, was approximate, far away from reality and what was in the line was entering into incredible suffering. Whether they were farmers or owners, they were getting into an incredible suffering. I have here in the Prefecture of Thessaloniki, in the areas of Chortiatis, Pylia, Panorama, where legacy was given to farmers in 1931 with decisions by the Committees on Expropriations and in 1935 there was a decision by the Directorate-General of Northern Greece, which decided to reafforestate, as the decision says, fourteen and a half acres in the area, of which the fields and property were, of course, excluded. In the implementation of this decision, however, the officials responsible have also included rural and private land and have now submitted the owners to an incredible suffering. Since 1935, we have final decisions of the Council of State in 2012, about eighty years later. Those who endured, gave the races. The largest number, however, of owners and farmers did not last. They couldn't stand because the financial burden of the judiciary was great. Because, you know, the decisions come out, the citizen is vindicated and the officials and the public are appealing, appealing against, Areo Igo etc. and continue the courts. The State shall not bear any costs because the private person is entitled and the costs are offset, as the decision says. So many of these citizens have abandoned their effort. This clearly results in the foresting of these fields, of vegetation. In fact, here, as I will read to you, there has been a report since March 1980, where the master of Thessaloniki sends a letter to the Prefecture of Thessaloniki and to the Forestry of Lagada and Stavrou, and says: "We found that the greatest problem that was affecting the service and which she created was the two refreshing acts of 1973". I would now like to tell you that after the 1935 reafforestation decision, which exempted private land and the fields, a decision was made in 1969, which said that land and private land would be included in the 1935 decision, but it would be forced to expropriate. Time passed, no expropriation took place. Then came another 1973 decision, which further messed things up. Then came another 1979 decision, which withdrew its 1969 decision and said that private land and fields were excluded. Then came another 1990 decision, which said 'no, private land and land are inside'. This was how the public was operating, ladies and gentlemen. These were the decisions of the prefectures. That was the legal regime that existed. So these private owners, the farmers whose fields were forested, are responsible? Certainly not. This is where the clerk says. The master here. "They were the two refreshing acts of 1973, because the ambiguity of these decisions left no room for the right and fair treatment of the problems created every day. And of course, you are quite aware of the struggles of our service for the adoption of new supplementary decisions to settle a large part of the whole problem of resurrected areas. Since 1973 such unacceptable actions have been taken against individuals, said the master, "community, etc. which do not upload the prestige of the service. Suffice it to think that during reafforestation special preference was given by the head of the workshops to the farms of the native farmers, inhabitants of Astochori, etc. I should like to ask the Commissioner if he is going to be able to answer this question in writing. The commitment and clear ownership left the service unresolved.’ These testify to a conscientious employee who reveals exactly how they were working. I submit them for the Minutes, as well as a copy from the Thessaloniki Forests Directorate dated 25 January 1979. [[At this point, the Member, George Lazarides, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I also have here a document from the Ministry of Agriculture, Kingdom of Greece, 1969. I told you that in 1935 they were excluded. And it says here, “... the exceptions to the reafforestation of agricultural land contained in the area of the Park of Thessaloniki and because under the provisions of Article 188(1) of the Forest Code the agricultural land does not fall within”. That's the 1969 document I told you about. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll be back in a minute, Mr. President. Tolerance, please. And he says: "For the constantly cultivated and proven ownership of private fields involved in the area of resurrected area of the Park of Thessaloniki you will submit in accordance with the provisions of Article 50(1) of the Forest Code proposals for their purchase or expropriation." I'm tabling this in the Minutes and that. [[At this point, the Member, George Lazaridis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I'll also give you the 1979 Government's number, DG 1877. This is where the 1979 decision of the prefect does not exclude private land. [[At this point, the Member, George Lazarides, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice.]] I forgot to tell you that the initial immersion in 1935 spoke of fourteen thousand five hundred acres. Then in the 1969 immersion - if I am not deceived - the area was found to be twenty-seven thousand acres. From fourteen thousand five hundred acres, twenty-nine thousand seven hundred acres. Here in the decision of the prefecture I have tabled to you, it again excludes private and agricultural land. And there is another 1990 decision which reintroduces private and rural areas. I'm filing it. In other words, it is an absolute alalum. [[At this point, the Member, George Lazaridis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And here we have some employees' exams. Through these interrogations, it is revealed how some employees worked to harm individuals and owners. They have committed the offence of falsification of the principle.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u51	Anti-pollution.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u52	Good, thank you. In other words, they showed that they were operating at the command of the county, and in fact they were not operating at the command of the county. I'm filing it in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u53	Mr. Lazaridis, now that we have also found the right interpretation of the term, we must finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u54	I shall conclude, Mr President. I would like to close, Mr Minister, to see with greater sensitivity the matter of forests. Here I would like to add another incident: at the Upper and Lower Kerdylia in October 1941 the Germans executed two hundred patriots who left their families. As you can see, then their families left because they couldn't cultivate the land, we're talking about women and children. After many years they turned back and clearly found their fields in another form. So these fields were forested with their own will? Oh, no. That is why I would ask that we look at the matter of forested fields more sensitively and where we are dealing with forested fields which have not been forested by the farmers or the owners of forests should be excluded from protection. We're positive to the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u55	Mr Marios Georgiadis has the floor from the Centron Association.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, Mr President. Good evening, everyone. I would like to begin with a reference to an amendment which we have tabled, namely the general number 1013 and a specialist 129, which actually restores an injustice and applies the principle of equality for all. I will simply ask the House, if it wishes, to support this as well. Ladies and gentlemen, the forestry legislation and the definitive designation of land is a huge and permanent problem that has dealt with generations and generations. Greeks have a special relationship with their land and, more generally, with the property of both land and real estate. That's nothing new. After all, it is a typical example that the Greeks have recorded about six and a half million homes. This is one of the proportionally higher numbers of the European Union, of course, taking into account the population of each country. They account for two houses for each household and - please listen - one/3 of them, namely 35%, are empty when the percentages of empty houses, for example, in the United Kingdom are 3.6% and in Luxembourg for 7.2%. The possibility of individual ownership of land and property has been and has been the passionate desire of all our fellow citizens for years. This experiential relationship with ownership has even been a subject of widespread tax exploitation in recent years. And I am referring to HISPIA, which you, as SYRIZA's government, would take him down. All of this relates directly to the draft law. The definition of the forestry area has always defined the land availability to be used for either this operation concerned agricultural and livestock activities or construction. The problems regarding what is forest, what belongs to the state and what belongs to each individual were the first topics to be addressed by the newly created Greek state. Today in the courts lands are guaranteed in favour of someone even under previous - century contracts. So, in the current draft law, the 1945 aerial photographs play a decisive role and then 1960s all of them related to contracts even before these dates. It is understandable that all this creates objective difficulties. On the one hand, there are no proper technology tools for high-resolution images for so many decades ago and, on the other, when we look at literature from past centuries, there is a great difficulty in documenting power and their authenticity. In some circumstances it is extremely difficult even to find themselves, as no attempt has been made to digitize them from a state agency. To give you the extent of the irrationality to which we can reach you, I will set a small example: The Metropolis of Lamia claims seven thousand acres with squares and houses in Peristeri. In fact, several months ago a special ministerial conference was held to prepare the public for the legal treatment of this unprecedented conflict. We're talking about a controversy based on a 1916 will. Meanwhile, the inner project of the temple has been structured for decades with houses, squares, stadiums and other common spaces. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Ms. CHRISTOPOULOUou, takes over the President's seat.]] The case has evolved into a sirial, as the matter has been pending since 1929, when the first claim was made, initially for three hundred acres. Today we are talking about four thousand acres in residential areas of the Municipalities of Peristeri and Petroupoli and three and a half thousand acres outside of plan, located in Poikilo Mount. Similar cases occur daily in the country and for too many decades. I submit to the minutes relevant reports on the above. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Marios Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned articles, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Today, however, the government does not seem to find too many solutions to these problems. As has been demonstrated by the hearings of the bodies and our discussions on these articles in committee, the majority of them have reservations and objections and are pessimistic about the future of forestry legislation and the delimitation of use on land. You did not pass it through consultation, you did not accept comments, not even dialogue. On the contrary, you will also go through this with an urgent procedure. Successfulness is also seen in several wordings in the articles, which we stressed will increase legal disputes in courtrooms. The most important example is that, although there is provision for the possibility of construction which serves agricultural activity on granted areas, these structures are not accurately formulated. We have also discussed this in committee. We read in the bill only two - three examples, and the rest of it is left to the judges' imagination as to whether or not they will be judged of granted areas, when some of the cases will be dealt with in the future. On the one hand, the reduction in the cost of redemption and of the use of land from the so-called 1/3 to 1/4 of the objective value, while increasing the number of hundreds of doses, and on the other, any objection, however justified on the part of individuals, is a struggle that will last long-term, high-cost and dubious results. So in all this relativity, the judges will continue to try to pull the snake out of the hole in every dispute between individuals and the state. And if any private person had the misfortune to get his property involved with the demands of the Greek state, then he seems to be lost by hand. We cannot imagine that a low pensioner, for example, with elementary grammar knowledge, will be able to fight the state machine monster and be a winner by saving its property, let alone the financial situation that may be at the moment. He's gonna have to pay a fortune in special forestists, lawyers, in paradoxes. The state is by definition right in this dispute, this is known to everyone, and this individual will be asked to prove that he is not an elephant. Endless procedures, anxiety, financial exhaustion. That will be his future, and that is the only thing for sure. These risks were brought to the committees, just as the representatives of operators have taken them. In addition, we even saw ecological organisations messing with the state because they dared to care about the natural environment. In addition to this, we see that there is a clear inner-party whim on the government side. Some people blame some of their colleagues for retreating from their left-wing authorities and introducing forestic laws. In fact, there are similar media posts, which are also close to SYRIZA. I present an article that you can have at your disposal. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Marios Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In fact, there are leaks, Minister, that the Minister for Rural Development refused to sign the bill, which was finally done by the Deputy Minister, who belonged to the Green Ecoologists. In other words, the relevance of the draft law does not reach us incomplete social dialogue and the urgent procedure does not reach us for decades in the processes of characterisation and declassification of forest land, we also have a pot on the cake your inner-party disagreements and greys. This, if anything, shows a lack of serious and firm political line. No one will take us seriously, when a weak parliamentary majority also have lasting voices of opposition and questioning within the government itself. In this attitude no one trusts us, and all we can do is eat our flesh and continue to eat them for decades now. According to the explanatory statement, the purpose of the bill was to continue the work of forest maps, to provide tools to protect and protect their rights and to adapt forestry legislation to modern times. Unfortunately, we do not see at first reading doing so. The bureaucracy of the past continues and continues. We see the state going further and the processes becoming even more time-consuming and difficult. A Regional Unity Forestry Committee shall be set up at the headquarters of each of the administrations concerned. This way you tell us that you will characterize definite areas of forest character included in the expected forest map. In other words, you intend to solve bureaucratic problems with more bureaucracy! We do not miss the services, ladies and gentlemen. We have a lot of state, quite a public, several general secretariats, we have several agencies. We do not need any other public services burdening the taxpayer. What we lack is a will for work, a desire to put new technologies and top-level computers into state services. Computerisation in all the services involved related to forest maps is disappointing. In addition, civil servants need constant training. We were told that because of disciplinary and lack of knowledge of the subject, several government agencies make extreme decisions against private individuals inconvenience to them for too many years in the courts. Is this Greece we want? We as the Central Association are saying this clearly: we do not want this Greece. We dream of a more productive Greece, a more extrovert Greece, following modern developments in the Western world and not the ones perpetuated by all the last governments from post-population. We maintain our care to vote during the plenary because, as we have seen, some last-minute amendments have come and we do not know how many more can come until the process is completed. We will therefore be voting on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u57	Thank you. The last special speaker from the River Amyras has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are only a few days after the Maltese, Valletta, but fortunately - I will say - we do not see celebrations in the government camp. Where is the government representative, Mr Janakopoulos, who said 'will you be pleased to vote on the measures coming'? Where is Mr Katrugalos, who argued that from 2019, pensions will be increased through the trik of personal differences? The only thing I see here is Mr Spirtzi, who supported and linked the release of the Ioannina to the liberation of the country from austerity. Did that happen?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u59	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u60	Are we freed from austerity, dear Minister? Because I don't think we're freed, we're deeper into austerity. Nevertheless, the Minister of Finance, Eukleidis Tsakalots, spoke with vigilance, admitting that there are measures in the Maltese agreement that will be afflicted by the people. But there is another mechanism of government propaganda in progress. While the financial staff have already taken financial measures of EUR 4.5 billion to bring back the funds of the country 3.6 billion, the countermeasure fairy tales give and take. Again, Euclid Tsakalotus gives the answers. In an interview that he granted immediately after the Malta Summit, the Minister of Finance said that heavy measures would be legislated and implemented since 2019 in terms of reductions in pensions and from 2020 in terms of tax reductions. ‘The countermeasures will also be legislated, but they will be implemented if the objectives are achieved’. I mean, it's definitely the tax rugs, for sure, the pension scissors, but uncertainly the countermeasures. It is to wonder what the government has been negotiating for so long. What was he negotiating? A few months ago, the government said that the pre-legislation of measures for 2019, and indeed the implementation of these measures is unconstitutional and undemocratic. We have heard Mr Tsakalotos say this with our ears in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. But what did you do, as a government? You will legislate on the negative measures in taxes and pensions, which will be mandatory in 2019-2020, while the positive measures, the so-called countermeasures, will legislate them, but their implementation will be the condition of overcoming the budgetary objectives. In other words, with this long-term negotiation, the country has lost. He's lost ground. The economy in the fourth quarter of 2016 returned to the recession. I would remind you that in 2017, on the basis of the information announced by the Bank of Greece, growth will reach 1.7% instead of forecasting 2.7%, as indeed the government-approved SYRIZA - ANEL budget says. Therefore, there is another margin, unfortunately, for worse measures in 2017. The banks, on the other hand, have been under heavy pressure. The arrival of the deposits, again, in the first few months of the year, was enormous. And so, instead of breaking the memorial he said, the government has signed a memorandum, the known third memorial and has brought us a 'cava' one more memorial, the fourth one. You've crossed the memos with the previous ones. You should be concerned about that, ladies and gentlemen of the government. I now come to the issues of this draft law. During the debate in the committee, we raised many questions, which were reasonable, in our view. Unfortunately, we have not received or received satisfactory answers, that is to say, what we believe would provide some serious and realistic explanations on the issue of forest land and forest maps and all the issues relating to them. We have, however, led to some unpleasant findings. It's a bill clipboard, I'm afraid it'll exacerbate the chaos that the clipboards have already caused. I would like to remind you here that on 22 March 2017, as Potami, we voted against an amendment that had come to ratification of an international convention between Greece and Azerbaijan, which was made by No 4462/2017. We note, therefore, that that amendment to the forest maps, which we had voted against at the time, was not relevant to the provisions of Article 2 of this draft law on forest land holdings, which were extinguished before 1975. As is also unrelated to the provisions of Article 4 of this draft law on outdated forest land between 1975 and 2007. It appears that the decoupling of forest maps from their notification to OPECE, on the basis of the amendment that it had been voted on - we voted against it - is linked to the long-term and serious problems of the Integrated Management and Control System, which is also controlled by the European Commission and for which, unfortunately, our country has been exposed for several years. It is the country's known problem of financial corrections due to violations of the regulations on Community subsidies for farmers and livestock holdings. The reasons for these financial corrections and changes, which are linked to maladministration and corruption, are also known. I'm saying it very clearly. It seems that forest maps reveal what has happened all these years: a crazy feast, a terrible chaos with the Integrated Management and Control System. Instead of exalting everything that was bad in this system, we are actually adapting the forest maps to the data of this system. It's a serious matter. Knowledge is aware of it. Now, what about farmers and farmers? The problem is that both of these categories of people and professionals, while they think that there will be a transfer of land ownership and concessions in their name, that is not at all certain that it will be accepted by the European Commission and that they will not be obliged to repay subsidies that have been received for this type of land and may become the cause of an additional burden on the Greek taxpayer with the financial corrections to the detriment of the country. There are, of course, serious problems with the land exported, with the forested fields, as my colleague Mr Lazarides rightly said, with grassland. However, property issues need to be settled in a different way, so that the institutional framework on which land transfers and property recognitions are to be carried out is controlled. I'll just say it. This "industrial" now, which starts with a jury of attestations, linked to property, is a big mistake. We will now enter a patent of jury assurances that "this field, which was a forest and public land, ultimately, on the basis of the juror certificate, brought by the brother-in-law of the niece of the niece of the uncle's grandmother, belongs to my family". There is a big deal about this. So these issues are not solved in this rough way, especially for the after 1975 forestry land, which has been evacuated. There is the absolute constitutional protection of Article 117 of the Constitution. This should be our gospel and on the basis of this arrangement we should move forward. We say, therefore, that these issues cannot be resolved by divesting millions of acres of public land without the creation of a strong institutional framework, in accordance with national and European law, and thus dealing with the unsolved problems that have been accumulated by the IACC. Let me talk a little more specifically. We go directly to Article 1, which allows compensatory reafforestation to be replaced by forestry works. It's the second paragraph. The explanatory statement identifies the problem in particular in Northern Greece. I would therefore like to hear from the Ministry who these private or public bodies are for the benefit of which we are depriving ourselves of this provision. Secondly, let's go to Article 3. In Article 3, we must say first of all that there is already the provision for aquaculture facilities in forests and forests. These establishments are not agricultural or livestock in the sense of forestry legislation. Is this where we have a double legalization, a duplication? Is the Commission aware that the small house in the meadows, as I have told you in the Committees, is 'the small house in the woods', which will become 'the small house in the woods', which will start from a construction, from a small shed? Since these are already provided for under forest legislation, what is and what are not agricultural facilities, why are we now going to bring them back in another form? I told you about Article 4. It is Article 117(3) of the Constitution, which clearly states that public or private forests and forest land destroyed or destroyed by a fire or otherwise disintegrated or disintegrated do not expel for this reason before being destroyed. They shall be declared refreshable and may not be made available for another destination. In accordance with Article 4 of this draft law, this includes reservoirs and no designation is issued. We are also talking about Article 5, about housing densities. There is an ambiguity here, and I would like more clarification. I don't want to say there's any opaque. But there is a general ambiguity. Mostly, the fact that it allows local government agencies to exclude any land they want from the tariff and forestry maps makes me extremely restrained in accepting this article. For the amendments we will be putting forward tomorrow because other amendments are now coming from what I have seen, one for the Habitats and one for the IEDN, if I am not mistaken. In any case, we will be studying them - because they have just come - so that we can get together tomorrow. However, for the draft law on forests, I have to tell you that he wants great attention. I fear that it opens a door to some people who have turned to a rural, agricultural area many forests that have been imprisoned, burned, torn apart by trespassers, evil people, and bad people - to say so - people. He wants a lot of attention. We are voting against the draft law. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Ladies and gentlemen, you will come to Step and answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u61	Of course, we will.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u62	We are therefore voting against the draft law. I look forward to clarification and we invite you to think about it better. The country needs other kinds of forest protection. Of course, rural land needs relief. Of course, we have made a full position on the pre-war fields that were forested, on the reafforestations, which the state itself had to observe and failed to observe. Anyway, the thing is a bucket. We are voting against this draft law. We think it's not an umbrella for forest protection. It's the reverse. It's a backward umbrella, which we'll find in front of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, too. Mr Spirtzis has the floor to defend his amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, Madam President. Because I was asked by Mr. Amyras before he was placed, I'll answer him. Dear friend George, I don't see you "hots" and I don't talk about the river alone, I'm generally talking about all this anti-reform, anti-social front.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u65	We are not anti-reformists.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u66	You've been down lately. Obviously, it costs the fact that the evaluation was closed. Obviously, it costs not having what was anticipated before, 4.5% and 5.5% surpluses. It costs that the Greek people will not be charged, because there will be countermeasures. It costs the possibility of finally having a debt settlement and getting out of the crisis. And it costs that, as far as - obviously - we have the surpluses we need to have, we will have, as we had this year and in 2019 and 2020, and the thirteenth pension...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u67	Dividends, say them, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u68	We will have another logic in ENPIA, taxation and everything else. That's what's costing you. It's okay. Please invoke the Bank of Greece's details. I hope that, for your area and for you personally, you will not invoke what the Governor of the Bank of Greece says, the insurance system is a wealthy one, even today. I hope so. I have the feeling that you're invoking it, but it's good to tell us you, because you tell us about everything else. And we reserve to celebrate, as soon as the debt is settled, and we get the Greek people out of it, where your allies have put him. Now, as far as the amendment is concerned... [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I'll just be a minute, I won't be late.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u69	We thought you were talking about the amendment all this time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u70	Oh, no. But he challenged me. He made reference to me. What am I supposed to do? I would like to say that we are addressing a need, because there is a weakness in some local-scale structures that cannot cope either in time or in no way with approval procedures for the implementation of complex public works of great interest. It is for this very reason, particularly for sports facilities, that the amendment tabled on 6 April - so it is not at the last minute - so that, if these services cannot be met, the Ministry, which has the competence of national works of interest, can also take over. This comes to cover this amendment and I wish many services of smaller structures, when they do not go ahead with authorisations, not to do so intentionally, but to do so really by weakness. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u71	Madam President, I would like the floor for half a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u72	Staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u73	Half-personal. Madam President, I would just like a minute or less than a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u74	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u75	Thank you very much. First of all, I have to say that Mr Spirtzi I admire him because he is one of the few ministers, one of the few, who have come out in front of these difficulties of the government. He starts streets, does lots of things, and he's one of those who don't hide. But, my dear, Mr. Spirtzi, you and your government consider the pensions that people take. Otherwise, it does not explain that you agreed to cut them against about EUR 2 billion. One of the prisoners. Secondly, the account of alliances with foreign actors and with blocks of reformist or anti-reformist, etc. There's no place. This, I'm sorry, but it's a political fairy tale. Do you know who's the best contributor to the hard European circles, Shoeble and so on, to give them a name? It is them, that is, your government, which opened the door first to talk about Grexit all over Europe and, secondly, to give us a memorial - 'cabe', a fourth memorial to the head. We don't get what we already have! We want another 2019-2020! So we're real reformers, Mr. Spirtzi, and it would be nice to get ideas from us, because your position would be easier now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u76	Okay. Let me tell you briefly about the procedure. The boy's cycle is over. I would like to say that we have thirty Members registered on the list of speakers. All parliamentary representatives, several ministers with amendments, and others, must also speak about the substance. So, I suggest today we finish at 22: 00, as is the program. Tomorrow we start at 13: 00. So I think we're gonna have to be a little more ludicrous in the process so we can finish some reasonable time. Mrs Papanatsiou has the floor for three minutes, which she wants to refer to in the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, Madam President. The amendment we are bringing to Parliament is the amendment of Rule 13 of Law 2971/2001. It has to do with the mere use of the cavalry. Every year we bring some decisions. As a number of issues have arisen with the CoR in recent years, we have decided to amend Article 13. I think that this is how we also have electronic auctions. If electronic tenders are to be made, it will be three years of concession.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u78	For the use of the cavalry. To Mrs. Iglezis, say these.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u79	For the use of the cavalry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u80	Why did you say "concession" and our blood was cut off!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u81	No, Madam President. Concession of use. That's what happens every year. It is by joint ministerial decision of the Ministers for the Interior, Economic, Environment and Energy, which will define and apply to individual issues. From there on, I must mention a few other issues. The concession may be made directly by the Ministry of Finance to municipal limited companies in order to avoid auctioning in such cases. It is also possible to grant a mere use of seaside, beach, bank or coastal zone directly, in or without consideration, to legal persons governed by public law and bodies managing protected areas, for the purpose of researching and studying the ecosystem of the coasts, such as the case of seals, carnets, etc. It shall also be possible to grant a mere use of sea-going recreational, beach, bank or coastal zone to carry out activities which serve the bathers, the recreation of the public, in particular for renting sea-based recreational instruments, table-rooms, umbrellas, running a locomotive, in accordance with the procedure and conditions laid down in paragraph 2 of this Article. In exchange for the purposes referred to in the first subparagraph of paragraph 3 of this Article, the hosting hotel operators, recreational or maritime clubs, supervised by the General Secretariat of Sports, may be granted a simple use of the seaside, beach, bank or coastal zone in general, in accordance with the first subparagraph, without invitation to tender for up to three years. Paragraph 5 of Article 13 of Law 2971/2001 is replaced by the following: For the concession to the municipalities, a joint decision of the Ministers for the Interior, the Economic, Environment and Energy shall be adopted, including the terms, conditions and all matters set out in the joint decision referred to in paragraph 2b. Further renting of sites referred to in this Article to third parties shall be permitted under the procedure provided for in the same Decision.’ Also, in the case of the agialos and the beach, surrounding or within which archaeological sites, monuments and historical sites are located, a prerequisite for its mere use is the assent of the Minister of Culture and Sport. To say this more simply, the beaches will now be made available by electronic procedures directly from the Ministry of Finance's General Secretariat and will be for three years. The ladders, the ones behind the beach have campings, hotels or anything else, will take them again for three years, so that we do not always have auctions, which cost the state as well, but also so that professionals can make more worthwhile investments. A third category remains in the municipalities, who will make the auctions and give them to the stakeholders.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u82	And the communes electronically?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u83	The municipalities are not electronically, in the first place. Every year we will put electronics as many beaches as we can.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u84	The facilities, the umbrellas?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u85	Yeah, we're talking about umbrellas. It's gonna be like every year.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u86	Please, Mr. Vlavo. You will take the amendment and you will see it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u87	As far as the blocking is concerned...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u88	No, there will be no blockage, the way it always happens. And the cantins that are planned and these will be runners. But they can make more valuable facilities.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u89	Thank you, Minister. We are entering the list of speakers. After the first two speakers I will give the floor to Mr Famello, the Minister responsible, who will make some legislative improvements and speak of the bill. The first speaker is Mr Balomenakis, MP SYRIZA. Mr. Balomannakis, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, the amendment you have now brought us, in my opinion and in the light of the information I have, I think that it really responds to a real need and the lengthening of the concession time, obviously - you are right, Madam President - and, in general, the conducting of electronic tenders will put a class in a system of beaches which, anyway, has many gaps, such as many things in the public economic and social life of our country. As far as I understand it, this year's electronic auction will not be complete. It remains to be seen which areas will operate pilots. In general terms, however, I have the impression that we need to look at it positively, precisely because it is a constant demand from the municipalities, but it also adapts to the case law of the Council of State, which wanted concessions to be targeted and not of a general nature. If there is to be a CFO, it would be nice to do so as soon as possible, because the tourist season begins and the issue needs to be settled as soon as possible. With regard to the current draft law that we are discussing today, I think there is no doubt that we all agree that the establishment, publication and demarcation, in general the settlement of land use - at least part of it is being attempted by this draft law - is an important factor in the development of economic and social life in the country. Let us say here that the process that has started is moving at a very fast pace. Let us also say that for about forty years, the civil administration has failed to implement laws which the political system itself had established. He failed to protect the forest, set rules, capture the legality and regularity, in such a way as to fuel our country with a quality of life and economic development. Our view is that, it is no accident that since 2015, only 1% have been posted. It is no coincidence that about five thousand of the five hundred objections, which have been raised, have not been started until recently. Nor can we give the delay only to the failure of the services. I would like to make a small parentheses, to say that the rapporteur of the New Democracy said that it was generally the political system, and then he said that it was the Opposition. I tried to see if I understood. For the first time I heard this, a political system, which is being convicted, but responsible for opposition is being identified. Of course, this has stopped in 2015, because the opposition has become a government, and since then it has been the government, it has not been the opposition! We say that these delays have a genetic footprint. There is really the responsibility of the political system and we are tracking it down to the political forces that have been ruling. More specifically, we find it in the figure of the local state, who said: "Patriotis, I am here. I'll take care of it. I'll put your file up there or up or down. I will move the forest boundary into a tactical way, so that you who are my party friend can do your job." We have to talk about these things. And let us also say that although it refers to forest maps here, this bill is not a bill made on paper. His main feature is that he touches reality, tries to solve problems of reality and problems that exist socially. It is really based on current, actual data. It's not just us. It's the services, the foresters, the foresters. They say so, if you will, the lawyers of the act, who have seen many of the provisions with a positive eye, who have been afflicted in the courts for many decades. Mr. Lazarides mentioned a number of features. And we claim that this draft law is characterised by a realism and flexibility, without prejudicing the obligations that each draft law has, adapts and follows the constitutional rules, but also the rules of ecological environmental management. I would like to mention a few examples of pragmatism, which distinguishes this draft law. Firstly, the improvement of the procedure by which the citizen can prove the agricultural use of an area on paper, which is seen as a forest. Apart from being compatible with the development of the Code of Civil Procedure, which now recognises it as an equivalent means of proof, it has so far not been possible for the citizen to produce such a document or, if it was produced, either by hostility or even suspicion. We must bear in mind the social conditions that followed by the Civil War. We need to see a lot of cases where the citizen said it in E 9 and, if you like, he had paid tax on this, but because he did not have a legal notarial title, he was excluded from the possibility of claiming it as agricultural land. This is therefore legally resolved. Secondly, a particular issue is the regulation for the observance of observance. I don't know how many of us tracked it down. This is also a sign of flexibility, because, if you wish, it is of interest, ladies and gentlemen, to us in our region, Crete, because it really solves a serious problem that had the observatory of Skinaca. It's probably the best in Greece. It is in a privileged area and it has even found funding from international resources and has so far not been able to resolve this issue because it has been contrary to the characterisation of forests and could not be financed. The regulation becomes very legitimate because goods are weighted. And it is a very good approach, because the greatest good of scientific research, of our country's visibility, outweighs the forest character that anyone would possibly say and which he does not have, I say to you, of course. I'm omissioning some. I would also like to say, as an example of flexibility, the introduction of simplified procedures related to the transfer of the accreditation instrument to a change of designation - administrative act - the solution given in cases of conflict of characters on the basis of aerial photography, where the possibility of a return is provided, and of course the provision of Article 6(1), which has areas which in the 1945 or 1960 photographs, where appropriate, had agricultural form, wooded and subsequently acquired agricultural form again. The key phrase here is "regardless of the form they were later acquired". [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. This is the essential addition and I think it responds fully and legally in cases of offspring of the first major post-war wave of police. I don't have time to say anything else. I wanted, at some point, to have a particular debate and a particular piece of legislation, to address the question of the presumption of public ownership, which, unfortunately, - as far as Crete is concerned - the presumption of public ownership, Minister, is stronger than other regions. It is not time for me, but at some point we will have to see a legalization carefully, but it is going to move on to today's data from society and the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u91	Thank you, too. The speaker of the New Democracy Parliament has the floor, Mr Tasoulus.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u92	The issue of forest land is one of the most complex, more complex and difficult to resolve in the modern Greek state. Suffice it to remember that the earlier issue of forest maps, which was the issue of the reforestation and acquisition of agricultural and agricultural land of the land of the landowners, tortured the Greek state for too many decades after the liberation of the country. He had to flinch and do huge diplomatic damage in the country the phenomenon of kidnappings and robbery, culminating in the massacre in Delise in 1870, which had huge cost to the country, so that Greece would be forced to deal with the issue of land and yield land to a rural farm, in order to reverse the tendency of our great-grandfathers to robbery and kidnapping, in the absence of other ways of guaranteeing their livelihood. These may sound unprecedented today or I do not know what, but this is the case and it is still the solution to the forest issue, which is not resolved by the eleven articles of this bill. It has some small improvements, which we will vote on, but it is a very cowardly attempt to resolve a huge issue. Indeed, this effort is being made under the outcry, protests and confusion caused by the suspension of forest maps, deadlines, paradoxes, the difficulty of many of our fellow citizens to prove their ownership, particularly in the so-called 'new countries', namely those released from the Ottoman yoke with the Balkan Wars. All this, of course, in the state and the modern need for the country to have a shift towards productivity, to agricultural production, to agricultural production, to livestock production, and that is not to say, if we do not resolve the issue of the classification of areas. I will mention a few remarks, Minister, which I have also given to you, from the Epirus Region, which, as an administrative mechanism, has a great deal of experience in dealing with these issues and I would like to have your attention. In Article 67 of Law 998/1979, which also survives with today’s bill, you have a provision and a provision and it relates to Article 67(1), paragraph 1, where you are attempting to resolve the issue of what was called a paradox concept of forested fields and a colleague asked whether it exists in other countries. You say in this provision that areas which in the 1945 or 1960 aerial photography are not clear, since 1945 they appear in a rural form, regardless of whether they are then forested - to what they mean 'flavoured fields' - may not be state, public and private, so that one can establish a right of ownership if the private person, as we say in this bill, is able to produce titles which go back before February 1946. There is a serious problem in the 'New Countries' regarding the titles before 1946. In my own country, in my own constituency, Ioannina, there is also the additional problem of the destruction of many firehouses during the period of hostile occupation and subsequent events. There is a proposal here, Minister, to establish in this provision that, if one cannot establish ownership with titles before February 1946, the presentation of titles after the above date, such as old inheritance earnings which have been drawn up in unintentional time, parental benefits, etc. may be accepted. There is a case of (b) of the same paragraph, which is not affected by this draft law. However, it must be added to the same provision and to the form of the forest so that the proposed and amended provision is formulated as follows: ‘Those of the areas in case (a) are currently in the form of forests or woodland and are deprived of the above titles may only be used for agricultural and tree exploitation upon authorisation of the Secretary-General of the relevant Decentralised Administration, etc.’. This is essential because it is understood that the titles which will be presented for this reason, if later in February 1946, may not be younger than the last 10 years. There is another proposal, which speaks of the legacy of distributions, that is to say land granted for the restoration of landowners who currently have a forest character, are regarded as private forests and are managed on the basis of forestry legislation. These areas, before the entry into force of Law 4061/2012, were not subject to the provisions of forestry legislation. It is therefore necessary to resolve the important problems that have arisen and will arise with the application of forest maps, to add to the same article - we are always talking about Article 67 - the case with regard to Article 67: 'The agricultural areas allocated to the rehabilitation of landed farmers are not covered by the provisions of forestry legislation, and today, because of a temporary abandonment, they have acquired the character of forest or forestry'. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Finally, there is an issue that will soon come to light. It is well known, Minister, that land which is part of the IAC under Article 5 of the draft law is excluded from forest legislation. It is proposed to add that the same areas include the areas to be included in the IAC following the acceptance of the European Commission's proposal to the Council of Agriculture Ministers - which is recent - for the new definition of the notion of pasture that now includes not only pork but also bushes. Accordingly, a subparagraph should be added to the same paragraph allowing the reverse procedure, i.e. land with the land in question and in a grassland form in 1945, to be declared after the vegetation has been managed as eligible. These are comments which I make on the Minutes of this House, which come from experience and, if they are accepted, they will enrich the bill with even more than the minimum right provisions. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Constantine Tasoulos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] He wants courage. It's a difficult matter. It is not one of the issues that has been resolved in the past in a radical way, nor is it now resolved by the eleven articles of this bill. I will stand for another minute in Article 8 of this bill, which correctly solves - and we vote as a New Democracy - an issue of the Municipality of Ioannites, which concerns a large area of two hundred seventy acres, left by the former Mayor of Pésinelle and former MP for the benefit of the Municipality of Ioannites in 1959, when he died. This area was complicated, because in 2015 the Department of Forest Protection and Environment of the Ministry of Productive Reconstruction and Environment called on the presumption of public ownership, the well-known problem. It's not like that. This is an area which is refreshing, sport, contacting the environment of the city and the citizens of Ioannina. This area has been reduced. Part of it has become a camp. Another part of it has become the national street of Ioannina - Artis. Rightly under Article 8 of this bill, a legal issue is now being dealt with - this area is, by its owners, whether it is owned, owned or owned correctly, by the beneficiary municipality of Ioannistes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u93	Finish it, Mr. Tasoula.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u94	Because this area - like another huge property in real estate and in cell phones - was left in the Municipality of Ioannites by a politician and mayor of the city of Ioannina, Vassilis Pysinella, you will allow me, for history, to present in the Minutes a brief CV of this plebiscite, whose bust is in the park of Ioannina, because, as we say today, they are not all the same. They were never all the same. There were politicians and mayors and MPs who left all their property in favour of the cities, in favour of the areas they served. One of them was Kingdom Pysinelle, mayor and MP of Ioannina. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Constantine Tasoulos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] With Article 8 of this bill correctly, Mr. Minister, you resolve an issue that had been complicated by this document of 2015 of the Ministry of the Environment in favour of the Municipality of Ioannites. It is worth stressing this behaviour of the past and, hopefully, of the present and the future. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u95	The Minister has the floor. Please let us all manage the time with enthusiasm. Mr. Femelle, how much time do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u96	What is envisaged, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u97	You have the floor for eighteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u98	Madam President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I take the floor now and relatively early, because I think it is my duty to resolve several issues that have arisen from the position of the rapporteurs and the special speakers. First of all, Madam President, let me put forward legislative improvements. They concern the amendment of a word in Article 4(1), paragraph 4, one word in Article 6. It is also a proposal from the Scientific Service of the Parliament. To add to the specific article concerning the Municipality of Ioannistes that: ‘The management of these parcels is governed by the provisions of Articles 58 and 59 of Law 998/1979’. It's the urban algae. In other words, in what context is it granted? Because everyone argues that it should be granted for its use. In other words, it's an urban chain that includes the activities it has now. I think there's no point in that. It has also been heard in the committees that we must ensure the nature it has now and the use it has now. I'm presenting it for the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u99	Because a number of issues have been raised and the procedure, I think I have to repeat to the National Representation that it is not something that we have been discussing for the first time. Any objections that go about the opposite are rather hypocritical. Let me remind you, therefore, that on 22 March here in plenary we discussed all these provisions, which had been pre-empted by a committee. In fact, we have already held meetings of committees with institutions for these provisions. We have two plenary sessions to discuss them. So there's no handshake and no surprise. Let's not be fooled. And let the New Democracy not be particularly surprised, since it has tabled an amendment to the matter, which we have been working on in previous committees and have rejected. So we have long been discussing the issue and the mistaken efforts made by the New Democracy to legitimise violations, concessions and eradicate fines that are already running, but also for three years to come. Because that is what they tried to do in the previous committee. The second point I would like to make is the question raised by Mr Amyras about inner-party grays - and that there are intra-cooperative contradictions between SYRIZA and members of the government. I should like to say, therefore, that the only thing that has been submitted - because I asked them to tell me what it was that was submitted - is an article on a site that has nothing to do with party officials, has nothing to do with parliamentarians, has nothing to do with ministers and creates a hypothetical scenario of an opposition - which has never been expressed - because taggers do not sign this bill, because it is a foresticide. In order to fill the gap, the Deputy Minister of the Ministry of Rural Development, who also represents the Greens, signed it. So let me tell you that, if it were a foresticide, the first person who would not sign it would be the representative of the Greens. In fact, their involvement in the signatures ensures, furthermore, the ecological and environmental nature of the bill, because we - and I mean the Left - have in our own DNA the defence of the environment, which you could not do. And that is the result of the years of your terms of birth, both as PASOK and as a New Democracy for forty years in our country. I would also like to say another thing about something that has been heard - if I am not mistaken - by Mr Georgiadis, about why we are setting up forestry committees and whether we are creating a bureaucratic step and a bureaucratic block. Look out! They tell us that we are not defending or promoting investment. Even for the short time that forest maps will be uploaded, we are setting up forest committees provided for by forest legislation and not set up to give their opinions on acts and interventions and designations even this semester, so that the growth wheel does not stop for one day, nor for one minute. Do you blame us for finding ways of not stopping opinions, investments and designations, particularly in the primary sector? Hey, blame us! We're happy! We are pleased to have you accused us of moving forward in the economy and stopping anything, despite the fact that forest maps are being posted. But forest maps are obviously a very big political change. I wish we had time to go to village - village, but also to every county and to solve all the citizens' problems, because no one wants to leave our country without any progress. And if any of you want it, let him state it willingly. Because no one from the Opposition dares to go out and say it. They are all in favour of this measure, but they are undermining it in too many ways. It is a great political change which requires a change of attitude from all, such as forest services, public administration, scientists who must help in each region the farmer and the owner, and, of course, from the municipalities that have not yet met this major challenge, which is the organization of space, the designation of uses and the defence of property. But I would like to make it clear that we are doing all of this from just one reading, that of the constitutional protection of the environment. That is why we are resolving what we can do in this context. Because I must say that many of what has been heard so far goes beyond the constitutional framework and they are asking us to do things that no one has dared to do forty years, when the New Democracy and the PASOK ruled, and they say to do so now, without revealing that they want to violate the Constitution. We want there to be a citizen-friendly solution to the issue, and we want there to be support for the residence where it is organised in densely populated and urbanly regulated areas, of course, but also for the defence and organization of rural operation. But we say 'no' to the freight offenders and to the use of the forest, we say 'no' to the villas and swimming pools, and that's why you need to take a position, because you haven't taken it. Finally, because there are issues about which criteria the regions will be designated, we must remind you that this government has promoted, drafted a presidential decree on the classification of forests, forests and categorisation, which has also not been done and which has been very ambiguity. It is also clear and also moved by constitutional predictions that the case of forest maps should be based on the first available time inventory, imaging, if you like, of the state of use, which is the 1945 aerial photographs compared to the 2017 aerial photographies, which is the available element on which the Land register develops. They will also raise objections. But the objections must not include all the rest that has been initiated with our actions. They must not include the lifting of afforestation in the legal rural functions before the afforestation crisis, they must not include the management of the issue of the change of uses that the current bill solves and, of course, they must not include manifest errors which will be resolved by a ministerial decision - which will be published on Wednesday, that is, the day after tomorrow - without any cost to citizens. But I would like to say that a number of issues that go into the forests - and I say in introductory terms - should not worry citizens, because they do not concern forest maps, they are not linked to the issue of subsidies and they will be resolved on the basis of constitutional control of these proposals, because we are also discussing them. We have not dealt with the issue of the 'floated fields' in this bill, because it is indeed a very sensitive and difficult issue and there are already arrangements to resolve issues and uses - where there are titles, but also when they do not exist - the agricultural and tree-growing continuity of their exploitation. All we have to do is that after you knew all this and testify to us today, why didn't you do it for so many years? Honestly, it is worth wondering why you did not take the initiative, since you consider it all so easy and if you want to plunder, in my view, against the real problems of the post-government period, but also with adequate needs of the environment. We have already made progress in a very large reduction in the end of the objections, we have forced and introduced the update of the maps with the boundaries of the settlements, which the municipalities have not responded to, and have put this responsibility in the Register, we have moved into the law on the lifting of afforestation on cultivated land, we have extended the deadline for submitting objections in a hundred and five days, and this law extends to the first areas which have the greatest difficulty in another month and a half, that is to say, within five months, while at the same time we have legislated that there will also be reforestations on the maps, while in the OPEEKEA the map will be used, so that there is no doubt and no concern about subsidies. But what does this bill do? Let me say with titles. It solves bureaucratic issues in determining reafforestation when the area is very small and when in areas where natural capital needs to be paid for or reafforestation, there are no areas available. For farms before 1975, it allows small establishments that were not allowed. There couldn't be a drill on these lands. It allows and reduces the redemption price to its fourth objective. It sets the hundred-monthly doses instead of the four semesters that existed so far, which were unbearable. It sets a limit of EUR 30 at the minimum monthly rate so that farmers can grow it. It also links the conversion of use to the IAS and OPECE system, subsidies. At the same time, it places aquaculture in forestry areas, as it has so far been in the industrial sector. This change does, that is, transferring aquaculture to the primary. It also allows for observance and placement of bees in parks outside parks, salts and recreational areas. In Article 4 we manage the cases of evacuations from 1975 to 2007, which are legislated in our country, but they were in no way useful to farmers. No application was over. We allow small installations again, in other words drilling, as well as power supply. And here we resurrect the economic study you had made very recently, in 2014, for the areas that are in the IACC, i.e. they are proven cultivated, while afforestation is imported into the total price as an environmental green end. Here too, the minimum monthly instalment of EUR 30 is being raised and the issue of subsidies to the IACC is also being linked. With Article 5, we opt for the recruitment by the register of forest officials, of course, contractors, we suspend the ratification of the map of agricultural parcels in which the application for the grant of use or concession of ownership is made and we give a further two months time limit, which will give us a planned date, about 15 June, which will also give us the total timetable of five months, because they are extended until that date and the already uploaded forest maps. Of course, we extend to the municipalities the possibility of suspending, by decision of the municipal council, the limits of residential density, but let this be known to all OTAs - which I will say tomorrow morning on the CED's board of directors - they have room to determine and defend, to defend the areas of residential density in a period after the suspension of the forest maps, since they did not fulfil this obligation before the forest maps were placed. Of course, we resolve an important issue, namely how to pay for the nights of forest workers, because we need to have night watch over various issues of forestry legislation. We are also resolving the issue with the Municipality of Ioannittes, which Mr Tasulas described earlier, which was a constant demand for the region and had to be resolved and resolved by a political decision. But what was said by the rapporteurs? I have to clarify. As far as Mr Screka is concerned, I must tell him that, Mr Screka, the gar of sorrow gives rise to insanity. Rather, the agreement of our country, the restoration of normality and economic development, the resolution of the issue that you had created as a bronze in the country with the loans you had entered into and the terms with lenders, since you had wasted public money and public property all these years, creates a great deal of concern and you probably didn't know what you were reading or what you were saying. Because even your own laws that you presented to us here, you have read them half the way, and you don't know what you had legislated, even though your name was as signatories to the VETs, which I will have to submit once more, because I think the lesson we gave you two weeks ago in a committee did not become a passion for you. I would like to say, therefore, that it was a flaw all that Mr Screkas presented on the fact that we were the ones who were engraved, that they were willing not to pay the evacuator of his own private woodland for the land before the '75s. This was clearly included in decisions and laws which he himself had signed. I am therefore obliged to say that to Mr.4315, in which I see your name is written back wide in the FEK, this procedure is planned...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u100	With Mr. Screka's signature?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u101	Mr. Screka, of course. With the President of the Republic, Mr Papoulias, with Mr Venizelos, Mr Hardouvelis, etc. So this is all specific. On 24 December 2014, Mr Skreka, you legislated that, for the outdated areas before the '75s, in the case of private forests, the citizen must pay a large sum, which I shall mention later, because it is good to tell the citizens how much you have charged them and how much we now lighten them up, Mr Skreka.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u102	But it wasn't required.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u103	It was, of course, required, because you had at the same time legislated with Mr 4280. I see here names like Kyriakos Mitsotakis, Yiannis Maniatis, also signatures. I am going to table the same piece of legislation for the Members of the Democratic Independence, because Mr Jellonis did not know what the PASOK party in Parliament was voting on at the time. Of course also Mr.3889, who was the law - if I am not mistaken - of Mrs. Birbil, to whom the period of the objections referred. Take note, ladies and gentlemen, what was envisaged at the time. I will mention all the titles, as well as the setting of a special fee for the exercise of the objections, where by legislation on 24 September 2014 - if I am not mistaken then to the government, Mr Screka - it was foreseen that for the least objection the citizen should pay 50 euros. Now with a ministerial decision ours pays 10 euros, or 80% less. And of course they still come to the Step of the House and read lies. So let me read this notorious article 5, which Mr Screkas mentioned to us to see the will of your government. I have to. It says, 'for reasons of public interest, forest land which maintain use to date is not subject to forestry legislation, subject to any other use'. And Mr. Screkas stops reading. With progress, of course, in relation to other ministers from the previous governments. At least he read a piece of the law he voted on. It goes without saying, however, in Article 8 itself, that the purchase price is set at 1/3 of the objective value and that the holders of public and non-periods are obliged to pay for the loss of the natural good by changing the use of the land.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u104	You didn't hear me reading it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u105	So, double-decoration, according to his own. And the property and the change of use.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u106	Why don't you change that?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u107	It did not read, however, that in today's law we are discussing the possibility for the citizen to choose and not to accept whether he wants ownership when he is publicly outdated but only to use, so even a lower price. He didn't read those. He was not obviously able to read his own law. I don't expect the Opposition to be able to read ours when she didn't read her own law.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u108	So he'll lose his farm!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u109	Mr. Screka, we don't have a dialogue now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u110	Mr. Screka, I haven't interrupted you at all. It therefore accuses us that Article 2 - second question - does not change the requirement to study the pre-75 evacuation. And I then read this paragraph 5, which read us that 'it is not already necessary to submit a study of the extremism before 1975' and blames us for not changing it when it is not required. On the contrary, we are changing it for the post-75 evacuations of the law signed by him and imposed by this large, irresponsible cost on farmers, which is why no one was able to exploit. Something that Mr Jellonis has accused us of, namely, putting an agricultural study on when we are amending and removing, Mr Gelloney, the agricultural study, which you have dictated and never dared to admit to farmers publicly. However, I should like to go to the issues that the special speaker of the Democratic Alliance put in. It was, he says, very good their bill, and we had to implement it and not make a new one. The question of the ordinary citizen is 'why was it so good, why didn't you use it all these years? What were you waiting for? Should SYRIZA come in and implement it?’ Choose: Or it wasn't good or you didn't have the political courage to apply it. You'll be on both losers, though. But I want you to answer us and take the floor on staff and tell us why you haven't applied them for so many years! Forty years why didn't you apply forest maps? Either the political size was not or your bills were not well. Pick. We take political responsibility, we correct the forest legislation of the past, which was not right, and we move on to a political change that Greece needs. Unless you considered that there was no need to know the uses and the property and to play each other on the back of the ordinary citizen. Because that is what the political representatives of PASOK and New Democracy did in the countryside. This was done and everyone knows, and now everyone runs to solve problems created by a vicious administration and this area in the past. We were told that time was limited. The law of Ms. Birbil 2010 was forty-five days. And now we have sixty, a hundred five, and now five months. What's a limited time? The one who entered the law of Mrs. Birbil or the law we have in front of us today? I told you about the high cost of objection. For the study that you were introducing and we are now undoing for those who were at the OPEKEPE, I also told you. For the refreshments you denounced it wasn't in the laws. Yeah, it wasn't. We put it in the House on 22 March. Why didn't you put it, if you were so experienced, and you should have put it on? Also, the sales plans why didn't you put them in the Ottawa obligations, and why didn't you make the municipalities send the city plans up to now? On the other hand, there are many members of the Democratic Integration who are devoting positions to municipal councils. Why does it not help solve the problem of forest maps? Why have they submitted to the board of directors of the CEDEFOP the proposal to suspend forest maps? Who will apologize to the Greek citizen for that? We know that we have posted 35% of forest maps and solved many problems with the citizen along the way. You said you had posted many forest maps. One percent posted. You said you raised objections. There have been 5,500 objections for three years and nobody has solved them. Do you know why? Because in some areas the opposition committees were not even set up. We have a list I'm going to table. I should like to read to you on this point because it gave me a lot of impression that in Attica, Drosia, Kifisia, Marathon, Penteli and Race the committees of the law that you have created, which you have implemented throughout Greece, were not working. Can I read you what areas they haven't worked for yet? In Katerini, Makriyalo, Methoni, Canathoupolis, the Municipality of Spartans in Laconia, Asprochoma, Thouria Messini, Messinis Sperhoea and Tripoli Arcadia? Is that the implementation of the forest maps you've been doing? And I'll testify to that in the Minutes. Of course, it is true and we must make it clear that we do not know - we are voting today on any of what the SYRIZA, the Greens and ANEL government have voted for. All are amendments to the old, deadly bureaucratic legislation that needs to be changed to help one authority in this bill: to support agricultural production. In conclusion, Madam President, let me say that I was impressed by the Communist Party of Greece seeking to be with the police officer and the police officer. It calls for unconstitutionality and legalisation of infringements, but it asks us to support the farm. How will agricultural production and the farmer be supported, if we cannot settle, legitimise, restore the substance, legal certainty and agricultural farming? But they cannot be king-in-laws of the king, that is to say, they must use the repentant New Democracy rapporteur who declares that we will erase all this and no one will pay for the natural capital, nor for concessions and trespasses! Because this has been heard in addition to unconstitutionalism. And one and the other! Of course, as far as Mr Amyras and the residential density are concerned, we can say that OTAs are allowed to submit them until the end of the posts on the same terms as were in the previous law, without any concessions, no gray point. In the event that areas of afforestation cannot be found there is a price without a body service, because something was heard about bodies in Northern Greece. On the other hand, where there is no area in Northern Greece there is no price. For aquaculture, they are obviously allowed as they were, but not as an industrial activity, but as an activity in the primary sector. And in order not to become the small house on the meadow, as "small factory in the meadow", there is a mandatory provision in the law that the areas in which falsification has been made are returned to the public and to the earlier state or to the forest. Finally, I would like to tell you what our difference with Mr Skreka was and so to speak. The farmer who had extinguished his own land before the age of 75 was obliged to pay 180 euros per acre once. The farmer who has evacuated before 1975 from next week will be obliged in a hundred monthly instalments to pay 75 euros per acre. The New Democracy is very concerned, because at last there is a regulation which both the farmer and the subsidy are safe but also the public interest, legality and security. Ladies and gentlemen, let us leave everything that has happened so far. It didn't work out. You really didn't make it. Let us now try to organise the issues of the environment, rural development, but above all legality and equality, because our country is at risk if the issues of corruption are not resolved from the top to the bottom. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u111	Madam President, I would like to speak on personal grounds for one minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u112	Mr. Screka, do you think it's personal? Because he talked about a draft law.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u113	On personal grounds, Madam President, because it has been mentioned several times in my name trying to distort what I have said. Please, just one minute of the speech on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u114	We're listening, Mr. Screka.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u115	Staff is also to alter the contents of the declaration.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u116	Well, let go, Mr. Screkas doesn't want a lawyer.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u117	Madam President, I am very afraid that the Minister, because he was committed to writing his notes, did not hear what I said. I read both paragraph 8 and paragraph 9 of Law 4280, which you gave me in respect of pensions. I'd like to thank you, but unfortunately it wasn't my job.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u118	4315 I told you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u119	Yeah, and 4315. It wasn't my job. Like Mr. Juliarakis and Mr. Tsakalotou, the drafting of this proposed bill you have brought. They're just signing up for the possibility that some of the articles might be complicit. So, even though you went to give me this law, I told you very clearly, Minister, that it was the spirit of the legislator that was that and that some things we need to change. And I'm asking you this...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u120	The spirit of the legislator has introduced fees.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u121	I'll tell you. The spirit of the legislator, Mr Famele, was to give a solution that you would react. In fact, you asked for Article 47 as a Qualification for a roll-call vote and voted against it. No.4315 you left. So, when New Democracy, supported by PASOK, tried to solve the chronic problems, you reacted and left. No, you were just reacting, but you were leaving! Therefore, do not start now to support what we have tried to do. We justifies you, we forgive you. We understand that you have seen what the reality and the truth are and you come here to follow us and join with what we have tried to do. But, come on, we're going together to this takeover price - we're talking about farmers who have farmed areas in their hands that have been evacuated before 1975 and which have been inherited, bought and made many transcriptions, over one and two and three, before 1975 - so that they don't pay. The fact that this did not happen to previous governments...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u122	Why didn't you do it?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u123	That doesn't honor you. We tell you 'Come here and agree not to send them the raisins'. For the end, in return for the money, we are telling you to apply paragraph 5 of Article 47 of Law 4280, without falling within paragraph 9, so that we do not have a problem of unconstitutionality, because we are talking about before 1975 and the Constitution that entered at that time and was passed by the House at that time. Because over 90% of land is such land.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u124	Mr. Screka, please finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u125	We're not talking about after 1975, which you're going to like them before 1975. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u126	Madam President, can I have the floor for two minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u127	What's your problem?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u128	The Minister referred personally to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u129	So he cannot criticise the previous speakers, so we should all take the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u130	The Minister asked me to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u131	What are you gonna say?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u132	The Minister himself asked.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u133	Here, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u134	Minister, I really am surprised by the naval attitude that you know everything. You two years had or didn't you have a frozen procedure? Was it considered or not and was there canceled maps for 944,000 acres? Were you at risk of not answering the project from the NSRP and running through the old-fashioned and ideals, at first with Mr. Tsironi bringing out bills here by canceling what was already frozen by you and now you come to correct what Mr. Tsironis brought? I'll only tell you the last one. The problem created in relation to what is forests, what are pastures, which are directly connected to farmers, and many farmers stayed outside and where you joined them, the Ministry of Rural Development and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs gave them pastures, according to your own estimates, to take European funds, and then you told them that these are not eligible and, today, the farmers have left them without the money they deserve. But here I would like to say what the Minister for Rural Development, Mr Apostle, said yesterday, did not sign this bill, that eight million pastures were found, now, to cover all of them. I ask you: Where did the eight million grassland come from now on? There are statements by the Minister. I would like an answer on that. As for the rest, I'll see you tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u135	Good. You're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u136	Madam President, I would like the floor for 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u137	You see, Members are also protesting because they are wasting time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u138	Twenty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u139	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u140	It is enough for me that you have asked us to cancel your own 1% of the country's posted maps so that we can reconstruct them with our own regulations. That's the acceptance of all the deadlock you've got. Of course, what is now very intense in the day of Easter that you are going to the countryside and the farmers will say: 'Finally, a government has been found to solve farmers' problems'. What have you been doing all these years? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u141	I'll give Mr. Stathakis the floor for five minutes. Are they enough, Mr. Stathakis?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u142	They're overreacting.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u143	I shall then give the floor to Mr Theocharopoulos as Parliamentary Representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u144	Madam President, let me...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u145	Then it's you, Mr. Carras, I know, but there's some other attendance. Here, Mr Stathakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u146	I won't need much time. Two minutes is too long. I refer to the amendments to Articles 142 to 146 of the Treaty. 4389/2016 which resolves the question of the complete ownership of IPTO by PPC. The proposed amendments do three basic things. First, PPC, the new company in which the majority of IPTO passes, acquires a complete separation from PPC by transferring its supervisory body to the Ministry of Environment and Energy and by maintaining PPC under the supervision of the Ministry of Finance. In this way, the provisions are fully in line with the relevant requirements of Union law, namely the '72 Directive which requires the ownership separation between these two bodies to be complete. The second thing these amendments do is that the possibilities for financing which IPTO can receive are widened. Bank financing has already been legislated and other sources of funding. Here, with this amendment, the possibility of financing IPTO directly from the Greek public. It is also clear that IPTO's ability to directly contribute as a kind of tax assets in order to cover the increase in its share capital up to the amount of the valuation of 25% of IPTO's share capital. The second is the finding of the financial possibilities beyond the bank and the Greek State and the possibility of tax compensation. The third thing he does is that he sets the import price for the stock on the Stock Exchange. The price is defined as the price resulting from the amount of PPC's capital reduction, for which its own shareholders, who will be the shareholders of the shareholders, have already agreed and voted in favour of the general meeting of PPC S.A... In this way, setting this same price as an import price to the Stock Exchange, since part of the shares will go to the Stock Exchange as you know, maximum protection is achieved to the shareholders of PPC. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u147	Thank you, Minister. Mr Theocharopoulos, Parliamentary spokesman for Democratic Incorporation, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u148	Ladies and gentlemen, Ministers, two years already in power, your Government continues, despite the suffocating pressure on the unfavourable developments in the economy of the country and society itself, which are, of course, the result of its own inefficient policies, to delay the implementation of development policies which are not related to moratorium commitments. The economic crisis cannot be an excuse for the fact that the dialogue on major environmental issues, in particular the shortcomings and negligence of our institutional framework and the control mechanisms of the country for the protection and management of natural resources, has been extremely unsatisfactory. Is there really any change, have there been areas in which we can normalise the controversy between exploitation and the protection of our forest wealth? Has a comprehensive draft law on the redirection of forest policy and forestry legislation, which, among other things, will resolve the problems that have arisen since the suspension of forest maps and mainly affect the primary sector? Unfortunately, no. For us the issue of forest maps, which is reintroduced with the bill, is extremely critical. Their integration is essential for the protection of forest wealth, but also for the development of the country. It will also remove the insecurity of the citizens, while at the same time guaranteeing the property of the Greek State. Even in this area, however, the government is implementing an ideological and unrealistic planning policy, which in the end leads it to run behind the facts and the negative consequences, trying to solve the same problems that it creates, as is the case in every policy area. Deceitful and unacceptable delays have painful consequences for society. In addition, following the "hard negotiation" of the government, the harsh reality of the Greek people follows. What do we have after Malta's Eurogroup? New measures of 3.6 billion, new pension cuts, instead of structural reforms needed. Analyse and tell the government, even a structural reform that actually leads to a reduction in spending and a rationalisation. There isn't. We also have a reduction in dutyless, acceptance of primary surpluses of 3.5% over the medium term - you do not tell us how much, what you have agreed - preventive legislation that you, your Government, characterised outside the acquis communautaire and anti-constitutional, countermeasures after 2018, since a primary surplus of more than 3.5% has been achieved, which the Government itself considers impossible and if achieved, is achieved in this way that you have been practicing politics in the last period, with overtaxation. If this is a policy of exiting the crisis, then really the words have lost their meaning. We are in energy insecurity - here you are, Minister - with the sale of PPC's units. Not to say what the Minister, Mr. Skourlet, says about this matter and what he has said in public. Of course, they need answers. Politics, I'm talking. I am not saying at this juncture that they need answers, because, from what I hear, they also take the path of justice. But politically, they need answers on this matter. We have a state of occupational insecurity that goes on. The list is long and a victim is the whole society. But what matters to your government is the picture. The troika doesn't come back, the institutions are back. You renamed the troika to institutions. Cultivate again a false hope, setting countermeasures for after 2018, because it sells. After all, we remember Thessaloniki's election programme and the parallel programme, which have never been implemented. It serves the image and that. The substance's gone. Support for the social state will remain at the level of the announcements, because all you do is a subsidy policy for the recycling of poverty, according to what we read and hear as planning your countermeasure policy. There is no design for social policy services, real services, modern services, which will essentially be appropriate in a modern state in the areas of health, education, public security and other areas of social policy. And after all this, we heard Mr. Spirtzi here today from the Stepping of the House saying that it costs the assessment of the opposition. It doesn't cost the Greek people, it costs the Antipopulation he said. In fact, he said he would celebrate in a short while, as he hopes, as soon as he can regulate something about the debt. It is a pity, according to Mr Spirtzi. She cried before, now she's been through the festivities. Do you really think that this is how you convince the Greek people? With that argument? With the mocking? He talked about the thirteenth and fourteenth pensions today from the Step of the House again, in the same way, the unacceptable, where, of course, you often say it and undo it in your Government. He said there were no big primary surpluses. I have never heard of this by a government representative, not much of the primary surpluses you have agreed on. So long I have heard you negotiate and say that these primary surpluses are impossible. Nowadays it's a good 3.5% thing? To achieve, of course, and give what you want to give as countermeasures, you must achieve 5.3%. At the same time, I would like to ask a question, Mr Ministers. Minister, Mr Stathakis, I would like to ask you a question since you are here. You have participated in the negotiations. If you had closed it in October and November, as we were calling on you, without these unacceptable new measures, many of which were not on the table at that point in time, do you really think it would be worse? You agreed on a tax-free amount of EUR 5,900, you are basically in agreement with the reduction of pensions, pensions and subsidiary, many of which were not on the table in November and December. But, in any case, do you think that this economic uncertainty and insecurity, which was really worthwhile for what you agreed on in the last few days? This mockery must be stopped somewhere, because the vicious circle of recession and unemployment is continuing no longer believed by the Greek people with everything that is happening and repeated. Mr. Femelle, I heard you again opposed opposition, and for this bill. You must finally realize that you are in power for almost two and a half years. You've been through two years. You must realize that and answer the questions you are asked rather than move to 'better defense' is the attack. Whatever is said, you must finally stop this tactic. You are a government, and you must answer all the questions and the specifics we put to you in every bill. In this bill, therefore, there was no substantial dialogue and the form of urgency is not justified on this bill. You once again bring a bill to the vote which could, of course, have been commented, posted, a public debate - I mean - and points out. None of this happened. On the substance, it is not innovating or solving the existing problems, including those of a system of trespassers. One wonders how many more bills and amendments will come for the same subject. Already with this, we only have three bills for SYRIZA days. In a short time you may bring us a new amendment or a new bill that will "fell" today. This is not a process - and we have told you many times - good government practice. As it is not a procedure of good government practice that a very serious amendment, analysed by the Secretary of State for Finance, has just been tabled by seven ministers - if I am not mistaken - and we have just seen it. This is not the way it is done. At least bring them to the committees. We should have a few days to discuss such serious issues. In this bill there was no single design and therefore a single bill on the country's forestry legislation. There hasn't been until today. Ladies and gentlemen, for us in the Democratic Alliance forest maps are a development tool. That is why we insist on solving the problems that have been caused to the citizens by the rough process of posting the maps. In fact, both through parliamentary control and here in plenary, we have made clear to you our proposals for the necessary legislative and administrative initiatives to be taken by the government to deal with these problems even now. You choose the skeleton, the ballistic actions, confirming the lack of planning. And I'm talking about your government, because it's all the time. And before you, the Department. After all, these two years the delays in this matter are huge. Any design for the completion of forest maps should be based on the illusion of problems and structured on two main axes: the first concerns the guarantee of law for citizens, and the second concerns the safeguarding of public property and the protection of the environment. We have stressed that the proposed provisions are in some respects extremely unclear. They have shortcomings and, above all, do not have the necessary security controls. To be clearer, you are creating a system of legitimisation of outdated forest land, without the necessary security controls, threatening to make widespread use of the law of trespassers. You do not ensure the way in which we distinguish between farmers and offenders, so that you can also enjoy the sense of citizens' law. There are practical issues - the rapporteur for the Democratic Integration has mentioned them just now - such as, for example, how we will avoid the affidavits of citizens, the use of violations and abuses from 1975 onwards. We have pointed out that a secure procedure must be provided for. Security controls are also absent from provisions such as those which allow for projects which serve its needs within the areas governed by forestry legislation. We would not be concerned, of course, as a provision, if there were effective control mechanisms. There is also a strong concern about the regulation on field grazing areas, which are excluded from the protection provisions of forestry legislation. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, let me ask you a question. To sprinkle the bill, as you say, with a little social solidarity, in the electricity sector, you provide for the exemption of luxury and social household invoices from the charges of services of general interest for all consumption. There is no doubt that it is a positive provision. But tell us how to transfer the cost of this social intervention. Do you have a plan? Will other consumers be financially burdened? In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that today's bill is not an integrated plan for effective action in this area too, so that we can finally achieve sustainable development, that is, economic, environmental and social development at the same time. In many areas, we have pointed this out to you, you have huge delays, such as in renewable energy, so that steps can be speeded up. In order to protect the environment, nothing has yet been done. You must therefore enter into dialogue and consultation on all these issues. A productive reconstruction plan is needed. We also need a national development plan in the country in which the government has done nothing. That is why I told you before that we had the uncertainty and nothing went on in the country at all this time and we had new unacceptable measures. In any case, show at least seriousness and do not celebrate, as the Minister of Infrastructure, Mr Spirtzis, has already arrived and celebrated in the Greek Parliament for something that is painful for the Greek society and the economy. Mr. Statakis, because you were in negotiation, really, at least, not to celebrate.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u149	Tomorrow I'll answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u150	The situation is extremely difficult for the country, for society, for the economy. The measures you have agreed are very difficult, they are painful. Mr. Tsakalotos said that if the duty falls below a sum he would vote against and go to the Prime Minister to resign. Things have reached a border point for the country and society. Anyway, no more mocking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u151	I will now give the floor to two speakers from the list and then to the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Javara. I shall give the floor to two speakers and then to a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u152	Madam President, can I have the floor for two minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u153	What do you want, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u154	I would like to make some technical clarifications to Mr Theocharopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u155	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u156	Mr. Theocharopoulos, I would like to make three clarifications completely technical. Firstly, as far as the jurors are concerned, in the case of the previous one before 1975, an evacuation has already been carried out and not after that. So that there are no misunderstandings or, then, you can legalize a new evacuation or trespassers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u157	Make it clear what affidavits they are.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u158	They are two jury attestations, which must be used in conjunction with other attestations, such as inheritances, such as ELGA, such as DIOS and documents.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u159	Tell us they're a jury attestations in front of a notary.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u160	Secondly, as far as compulsory agricultural service is concerned, the IAC's certificate as a compulsory element is therefore entered. It is only about agricultural use, and that is express in the bill. And thirdly, the plain vegetarian lands were excluded from the protection by law of 2014, L.4280, not by our law.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u161	Independent MEP George - Dimitrios Karras has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u162	Thank you, Madam President. [[Applause]] When I saw that a bill on forest matters was tabled, I was sure that I would be placed in the Chamber on matters of law, now, illegality and not on matters of simple legality. What do I mean? The 1975 Constitution, a constitution truly overprotective to forests and forests, was the result of exiting the dictatorship, where there was an orgy of violations, arbitrariness, especially in Attica with the arbitrary construction. Since 1975, however, the conditions have changed to date. The structure of society has changed, the structure of the economy has changed. More specifically, then we did not have the so-called 'globalisation'. Today we have it. Today the country is in crisis and is in difficulty. The agricultural income is 3.85% of GDP. Do we do something today with the bill to improve it, to develop it? I fear that this bill creates a serious structural problem. Why am I saying that? It is clear that Article 24 of the Constitution prohibits a change in use unless it is relevant for the national economy - it says - another use and not a rural one. Article 117 of the Constitution tells us that everything that has changed illegally in forests, on forest land, is necessarily declared to be resurrected and remains in forest management until it recovers the earlier form. What are we legislating today? I'm not against it. But I'm trying to figure it out. We are dealing with a situation of disorder, lawlessness - if you like - before 1975, where under pressure from the need to create fields, to create agricultural land, there was the tolerance of the state. However, the issue of this type of legislation is not solved. We need to find something else. I read, Minister, the explanatory statement and the text of the law. You speak for reasons of public interest. It's a vague legal concept. Do you prove that? Oh, no. I can assure you - and let me say this with pity - that this law in the first individual administrative act will address issues of constitutionality. The same will apply to the scheme for the extraction from 1975 to 2007. These issues will be raised immediately in the first ministerial decision to be adopted, in the first individual act to come out. Because I do not want this to be abandoned, I want there to be more attention to these issues. And I can tell you two suggestions. And if you want to take them into consideration or not. It doesn't matter. I just have to tell them. My first proposal is - it is the long-term one - to join the future constitutional reform, a transitional provision that legalises what we are voting on today. The revised constitutional legislator has this power. The problem is not solved, however, because we are putting it in the next few years. I propose an immediate solution, Minister, and I want you to accept it. Since the Constitution says that it must be intended in the public interest for a rural holding, this must prove to be 100%. We are the lawyers who are in the Chamber who know that. So you must start tomorrow to save the law - I will not vote against it - and to draw up a large study under the responsibility of the public. What can this study say? To say the weighting of interest, if what has been done in the past or what has been done by 2007 justifies the concept of the public interest. How's that gonna happen? The public interest needs to be proved not only in economic terms, but also in social terms, and it needs to be demonstrated under the conditions of the rural population, the export of the country, the need for food in the country. We must therefore draw up a study which will justify the public interest in this legislation today, for a possible or rather certain - if you want - a legal dispute. There will be multiples of them, because the law has imperfections. And you'll see overlaps on statements like old contracts. You'll see differences in the civil courts, that my field is five acres, I've taken but two from the neighbor, etc. You'll see a lot of things that will lead to disputes. So draw up this study to justify the public interest. It's easy to do, but he wants attention because you won't be able to go and go to a court to apologize because this law is in line with the Constitution. You will therefore justify this in that sense, in the sense of the public interest and in particular the supreme one, so that you have this argument. It is not 100% solved with this, but in view of the newer conditions, the law of the need, as has been shaped in Greece now, because at the moment we cannot hide that the need to maintain agricultural production. I am one of those who has handled hundreds of such cases, I could say let the law come out, the first administrative act we will insult, a question of the Constitution immediately and we have put it aside. I don't want to tell you honestly. I want agricultural production to be saved, I want it to be able to increase. If you don't do that, he's a loser. And to render Caesar's Caesar, in my opinion, these fears did not allow Mr.4280 to function in the end, because his author or his rapporteur, in any case, know that he had similar reservations and doubts to those which I am expressing today. So if you want to save it like this, because the explanatory statement does not say anything, the law says nothing, so that the time when the maps are being posted is over, the reason for the change can be justified. And you must also have one last problem: I have heard from my colleague Mr Lazarides, who has been very careful in talking about resurrected areas. You know that in the villages of Thessaloniki, such as Limethochori, etc., there are many differences in the Council of State for Reforestation. You have another problem you can't solve. You have the problem of compliance with judgments. I want to remind you of Article 94 of the Constitution. What's he saying? ‘The administration shall have a duty to comply with judicial decisions’. What are we talking about today? Are we saying that we will lift or suspend reafforestation operations that have been decided irreversibly? There's a problem here. I have to say it. You have a big problem, because where there is a decision of a judicial, administrative or board of State, which has rejected the application for annulment of the person who has gone to claim the annulment of the reafforestation act, you cannot infringe it. Whatever you say to the law, you have a constitutional emblem and you will find it in front of you. Have you studied these, Mr. Ministers? You put down to see what those areas can be attributed, you put down those bound by constitutionality? I'm afraid not. And why am I saying that? Because when you discussed the amendments with Law 4062, I was sure that you had now intended to legislate in the state of need because some obligations and time were expired on forest maps. Find a solution, or in a year's time you'll be discussing the same things again in the Chamber. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u163	Mr. Karagiannis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u164	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Ministers, the main objective of this bill is the uninterrupted continuation of the work of drawing up forest maps, providing tools to protect and protect their rights, and adapting forestry legislation to modern times. In the regulations it introduces, solutions are given to the following: First, the take-over or use of outdated parcels shall be simplified by suspending the ratification of the forest map until the completion of the approval process by the forests and reducing the cost of taking up or using the land while increasing the number of instalments. The possibility of building infrastructure such as drilling, water tanks, shelters, which serve agricultural activity is also provided. Secondly, an economic study is not required for the outdated areas between 1975 and 2007, which are part of the IACC. Thirdly, there is provision for the integration into the forested fields of the legumes, of the areas by a final act of designation and of the areas currently appearing in rural form. Fourthly, the grassland areas that are plain are settled, but have not been classified as such in the past. Fifth, the application of the TAs and the legal persons governed by public law for exemption from municipal land objections and with regard to residential density should be settled until the deadline for the submission of objections from the visa and ratification of forest maps, if they have been indicated by the municipalities concerned. Apart from the above and the positive sign of this bill and the coverage of the constitutional obligations in question, let me focus on Article 8, particularly important for the city of Ioannina. With the amendment introduced by this article, the Prefecture of Ioannites is owned by the Park of Psminella, which is known as the Yannian living room. Thus, an end is given to the chronic conflict between the Greek public and the Municipality of Ioannis, a conflict which has been deprived for many years by the citizens of Ioannina, a unique recreational lung, a point of reference for the city and its inhabitants. The picture presented today by this abandoned and derelict space is of no value to anyone, especially the city of our great national benefactors and the tourist development of one of the poorest regions of the European Union. Article 8 provides that the Greek State recognises the Municipality of Ioannittes the right to complete ownership, legality and ownership on two parcels consisting of the Prínella Park. But how did we get this far? For forty-five years the owner of the Psinelle Park was the Municipality of Ioannites. About a decade ago the property of the park passed into the hands of the Greek State because it was not declared in time by the municipality at the National Stock Register and the E9. With the completion, in 2014, of the procedures from the Stock Exchange, the next municipal authority appealed to the public, claiming what belonged to the city for decades. For my part, in December 2015, I tabled a question to the House, following a request from many of my fellow citizens who were fighting for the future of the park and the tragic situation in which it had come. In 2016, today's municipal authority launched the procedures to reinstate the park, regardless of the pending court proceedings, which were topped last November, when it tabled a legislative proposal to reinstate the site. The proposal was supported by the practical support of all Gianniers, local actors, parties, the Epirus Region and the members of the prefecture. The present government, with the regulation in Article 8, has the political will to resolve the issue and deliver the Purseella Park to its legitimate beneficiaries, who are all the citizens of the Ioannina, who will in turn have to hug it again, protect it and safeguard its public character. In conclusion, I would like to highlight another local issue of the Ioannina Prefecture, which concerns the Municipality of Zitsas and its famous wine-growing zone traditionally cultivated the native PDO of Debina. In many cases in the area in question that used to be agricultural and cultivated as vineyards, as seen in earlier aerial photographs, they are now covered with forest vegetation. I think that at some point we should see legislation so that those areas that have previously appeared in aerial photographs as vineyards are reinstated for agricultural use and the establishment of new vineyards. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u165	Thank you. Mr Javarras, New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, has the floor. Mr. Javarra, do you want the twelve minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u166	Madam President, I believe that I will have your tolerance and generosity, which is well known.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u167	I mean, you mean beyond 12 minutes. So let's stay in 12 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u168	In any case, thank you. Minister, I would like to start my speech with a comment on what you have said, and above all I would like to make a personal reference to you, because I think that the paradox of the passion of the party often leads you to such behaviours that unfair yourself. Because today, with this war you fought against the New Democracy for the governments that it gave to the Greek people during the post-population process, I think you have committed a great stumbling block. Firstly, because you have shown party empathy and secondly because through this passion you have not let some virtues manifest and indeed has the bill you are bringing to Parliament. So you will allow me to tell you that only the fact that in the explanatory statement to this bill, but also in the provisions you bring, you are taking the historical time to two, making one before 11 June 1975 and one after 11 June 1975, you are obliged to do so because the New Democracy gave the Greek people and the history of parliamentaryism in Greece the provision of Article 24. So this provision is the task of the New Democracy Government, which had the honour and privilege immediately after the fall of the free regime of the colonists, to have the historic initiative to give a modern constitution to the Greek people, who have endured so far. It'll last. The most serious thing, of course, is that you have come against us in obsolete fashion, I would say, in recognition of the negative fact that we have not helped to legislate forest maps and forests at all. Well, you are mistaken here, because there is a piece of legislation, Law 998/1979, which is the Forest Code, this code which today regulates matters that you are obliged to respect. Indeed, you have respected them because, with the bill you bring, you are amending the provisions of Articles 47, 47b and 67 essentially of this legislation. However, this is a piece of legislation that New Democracy gave to the Greek people, in the context of what we are all doing here, that is, in the context of a fertile democratic debate which ultimately has the great power to give the floor to gain such power in order to go through history, that is to say, to become a law. The reason becomes law. That is what is happening here and the debates should be of value. But silences should also be of importance, as the poet said. That is why, for many things I will be silent about, but for what I do not think you might be sad about, it is that, on 19 and 20 December 2014, in this Chamber, the Government of New Democracy - you have rightly pointed it out - brought and discussed another piece of legislation, No.4315/2014. In this piece of legislation, your prolongation, your Party, as a Qualified Opposition then, with the rapporteur, the current Minister for Rural Development, Apostle, told the Governments of New Democracy, saying: "After the loot of Law 4280, they only spent four months to bring another legislation, which disappears and the last shield of the provisions of Articles 24 and 117(3) of the Constitution. Anything that was pro-environmental, this law disappeared.” he said attributes. And, Mr Minister, today you are doing nothing but expand - indeed, I personally acknowledge it - if you want to make it simpler - I accept it - procedures which have been legislated by these two legislations, which have been brought by the New Democracy. With regard to what you testified to us, we supposedly have done nothing about the tariff and the forest maps, I will also remind you that in this law that you are now amending, Law No 998/1979, the Forest Code, was initially, that is, since 1979, the provision of Article 13, which was signed as a 'Test', not just...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u169	On the papers!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u170	I'll tell you. Don't be in a hurry. And not only that, but since then, the Forest Papers process had begun, until the "modernists" of PASOK came. With Law 2664/1998, which was signed at the time as the 'National Land register', this provision of the New Democracy was repealed, the one you said had done nothing to protect the environment. He was absolved. I don't want to report. The events with the National Stock Exchange and its adventures are well known. But, we, be sure we have nothing to do with it. So here I do not know whether the known Marxist saying that conscience always comes late, as this wise man says in the “Twelfth Eighteenth Brummer of Louis Bonaparte”. One thing, however, is certain, even if that is the case, you have missed today. But I'm gonna take a step further...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u171	Not lawfully, I hope.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u172	No, I legislatively said there are virtues. But you have to take several steps and I think or at least suspect that you've spotted them. I'll tell you some before I go to the final, Madam President, if you'll excuse me. There are, for example, a number of real estates which relate to changes in the river flow bed. There, in all the rivers, when the old bed is abandoned, new properties are created and appear, covered by water vegetation, which appears within the forest maps to have a linen green, which means that there is a question here. Because in the region where I am elected, in Elias, we have two large rivers, Penios and Alpheus, I can assure you that there is one issue. I believe that you will be able to resolve this with this ministerial decision that you say you will be issuing. However, you should also deal with another major issue, which I do not know is covered by the scope of the legislative authorisation you have set up with the amendments you have brought here last time. This is the legacy and reafforestation, which are open to issues. There it will be unfair to pay someone who took and paid a particular parcel ten or twenty years ago, or someone who, in the context of the distribution of land, has, in the context of the agricultural legislation which has been coded since 1952, obtained real estate for a farm, for a farm and yet it is now forested. Are you asking me now: why would he have to pay or if they were taken away and forested, why should this man also have to pass through this process? It's not clear. There are issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u173	From the Constitution, Mr. Javarra. We want to help in the conversation.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u174	I'm going to enter the Constitution right now. Do you really want to contribute to what we have lived in the years of post-population, which is not a good sign for democracy? For as great and bold as the decisions of the Council of State were, we suddenly saw the IV part of the Council of State monopolies environmental protection in the context of judicial pillism, which has often reached extremes. Can we talk about the Acheloos dam? It's a painful story, too. But I won't report to others. What I would like to say - and I shall end here, because in this Chamber we should be given the opportunity to speak with a more general controversy - is that, today, in the years of later youth, we have to face up to a new relationship between society and nature. If we think that modernity began with a contract that we said it socially, that is to say it started with an agreement between people systematically exploiting nature and using the objects of this world as a matter of principle to meet their needs, that is, this plan has been completed. So we now arrive at a new phase, which is the phase of post-newity history, where, as the great and very modern of his views and a glorious philosopher Michel Sir, we must build a natural contract, a contract of coexistence between society and nature, where reciprocity should not be based on these provisions or on those kinds of decisions, which one has said we are not applying them. Finally, this coexistence must have one meaning: society towards nature and the nature to society must give each other the death penalty. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u175	Mr. Consolas from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u176	Madam President, may I speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u177	You're seventh. It's been a while. Mr Papalieou will then speak, and then I will give the floor to the Parliamentary Representative of SYRIZA Mr Xydakis. Here, Mr. Consola, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u178	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today's debate on the bill, unfortunately, coincides with the hopeless effort of the government to convince us that the measures to reduce pensions and also the vertical reduction of tax-free allowances, measures that are deeply substantial, are neither a little - nor a very personal triumph of the Prime Minister. The only thing the government knows is to improvise, manage political time in terms of yesterday, but they have no match for today and much more than they have no projection at tomorrow, one today finds the country back five years. We are essentially in the situation that was the country in spring 2012. We are trying to reach the levels of 2014, when SYRIZA was blackmailing the elections and preventing the country from completing the final attempt to get rid of the memorandum. You will remain in history, Minister, unfortunately, as the only government within two years has brought two memoranda to our country and, unfortunately, the second Memorandum, in fact, is not just in burdensome terms but also without funding. Government improvisations spread everywhere. We see them in the bill we are discussing today. We have heard the rapporteur, Mr Skreka, who has documented this position, but since we have warned you that the Forest Maps Act you brought in 2016, n.4389, was a rough one and would create huge problems in the implementation and, above all, in the process that this law is currently facing. The fact that a month ago you had to bring a new amendment, and today you are bringing a draft law under the urgency procedure, proves that Law No.4389/2016 was not just inadequate and clipboard, it was literally a genogram that ignores basic parameters and peculiarities and causes enormous disruption and suffering for the citizens. In fact, it puts the Greek citizens into a great adventure, who are subjected to suffering and expense, to defend their self-evident property. We have pointed out all these problems to you, Minister. On 17-2-2017, we tabled a question headed by Mr Skreka - who also signed thirty-five Members - pointing to the despair of citizens about forest maps. Let me put it in the Minutes, in conjunction with the question that I have tabled, highlighting the problem that has arisen with the suspension of forest maps in Patmos and Symi, where 80% of the islands are now considered as a forest area and yet, Minister, you have not answered these questions. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Emmanuel Konsolas, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] When we point out to you the uncertainties and irrationalities created by the law you brought, you blame us for not wanting forest maps. There's no bigger lie than that. It was New Democracy that took the relevant initiative on this matter and made an extremely interesting mention of what happened since the post-Civilisation process. We want and seek to have forest maps, forest maps, but, not with this roughness, not with horizontal provisions that do not calculate specific, historical data, but with reality itself. There is a clear issue with the delimitation of the settlements, which has been put to you by the Technical Chamber of Greece. I don't know if you've answered that, Minister. In villages that do not have an approved town plan, part of the settlement may be considered as a forest area. Do you understand the problem, ladies and gentlemen? With the bill we are debating today - in theory, you have always tried to correct some things. However, why didn't you deal with this real problem? We all know that there are land without property titles, which for a period have been abandoned by the owners of ownership. These areas have been turned into a forest, and now their owners, as long as there are no contracts or property titles, must be involved in a dispute with the public in order to find their point of view. Why? However, you could check the possibility - as a solution - for those having titles of ownership with continuous and continuous succession not to be subjected to this suffering, to this suffering. Minister, do you think that the reduction you have made at the end of opposition is best practice? Do you think you solved the problem? I have heard you speak before and take part in this matter. However, it seems that all your reasoning about forest maps is inspired by a collective logic against the citizens. I would like to point out another point. How representative can forest maps be on the basis of the 1945 aerial photographs, when the country was in war? How much does this dimension reflect the reality? Why not select the 1960 aerial photography? Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer in particular to the Dodecanese case, and in particular to Patmos and Symi. 80% of Patmos, the surrounding islands administratively owned by the Municipality of Patmos, as well as Symi, are now considered a forest. For example, in Patmos this means that from forty - two thousand acres thirty thousand acres are changing use, since they are considered forests. Why are they considered forests? Because there is a distorted interpretation of which plants are considered forest. In other words, low bushes, towers are considered forest and, unfortunately, huge areas are bound. The Household Control Zones with FEK 621/2001 were not taken into account, because these existing Eco-labels, once another public service comes, the Forest Service ignores them and creates a huge spatial problem. In fact, it cancels what is already in existence, entangled investments and puts in doubt private property. However, even with specific ZOE, there was a problem, since construction was banned in the Country of Patmos, and the expansion of settlements did not go ahead. It was not taken into account that Patmos and Symi, like the rest of the Dodecanese, were the last areas incorporated into the national body, having been held under Italian occupation, with all that means to the problems of contracts and titles. You also ignore the peculiarity of Patmos, since its properties are inseparable, as they come from the Holy Monastery of Saint John the Theologian. Let me remind my dear colleagues that the island was granted to the Holy Monastery in 1088 with a golden bulwark of the Emperor Alexis of Komnenos. I would like to point out that some have bought land and properties to invest on the island on the basis of this data. The state itself now disputes ownership and, unfortunately, the law of the market, but having collected the relevant taxes and revenues beforehand. It is specific that no one took into consideration when laying down the regulatory framework of L.4389/2016, which created this problem. Minister, you must suspend the procedure regardless of the forest maps in Patmos, Symi and the other islands of the Dodecanese. By the time we agree and institutionalize a rational procedure, we propose and believe that you should suspend the procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u179	Is that a New Democracy position?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u180	Being these islands by 80% forest is not rationalization, Minister. It's irrational. And because, as Mr. Javarras said, we have to do with nature to make a contract, a contract of people and nature, come see reality. Ask Mr Gaki and other colleagues in the Dodecanese what is going on. Ladies and gentlemen, despite the fact that there are also positive references in the bill, and we must not zero them, its philosophy, but also addressing the issue of forest maps by the government - particularly the Dodecanese - is moving in the field of improvisation, manipulation and extreme collectivity. Politics requires truth, logic and responsibility. And you know, Minister, citizens consider that these three elements are not an inadequate species in this SYRIZA - ANEL government. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u181	Madam President, I am sorry for the intervention, but I want it to be recorded in the Minutes if there is a position of the New Democracy on the suspension of forest maps. It's got to be officially filed. Don't hide. He said it as a New Democracy MEP in Step. I want to know if it's New Democracy's position to suspend the application of forest maps. But I have heard from the rapporteur and the parliamentary representative. Because we are going and we promise that in local communities and we are changing the whole debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u182	That was at the edge of the speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u183	Okay. I accept it was at the edge of the speech and it is not true.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u184	Suspension of ratification for all the issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u185	Requests shall be made clearly. We can't pressure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u186	For Patmos and Symphony, I maintain my view, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u187	Mr. Papaliou has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u188	Ladies and gentlemen, mapping forests through the drawing up and ratification of forest maps is a key infrastructure project for the national economy and the country. I'd say it's a national investment. In this context, this draft law, which demarcates the area in which forestry legislation is applied, includes amendments to forestry legislation, which are essential to the uninterrupted continuation of the work of drawing up and validating forest maps and for the service of citizens. This bill is a first-hand technical bill. However, it has more than one major political dimension: the environment, the dimension associated with primary production and general development. The first, environmental dimension, ensures that the provisions of the Constitution are applied to the protection of forests and therefore of the environment. The rural dimension facilitates primary production, which also emerges in a pillar of development. With the overall development dimension, the bill clearly sets out the limits within which the State can move and develop a spatial policy, the forestry authorities may take measures to protect the forest and the citizens may exercise their rights linked to their nature and form of ownership and to develop rural activities. Ladies and gentlemen, the provisions of this bill are the state, whether as central administration or as forest services, but also the citizens who, because of the absence of forest maps, have been involved in a range of procedures, administrative and judicial, in order to exercise their rights linked to their property. Forest maps do not define owner. They define the form of the area as a forest. It follows that the submission of objections to the content of the forest maps is limited to the character or form of a given area in the forest map and not to its proprietary status. Ladies and gentlemen, for the state the mapping of forest land is a prerequisite for the development of national spatial planning, taking into account the forest land, forests, forest areas and grassland, all together representing 65% -70% of the country's territory. Through the ratification of the forest maps, which are full proof for each administrative and judicial authority, the reliability of the entries in the Register is guaranteed, I would say another "Arta Bridge" for which resources have been wasted, without the project being completed. In addition, a complete picture of the third-party forest areas infringements, from 1945 until today, is ensured. For citizens, by mapping forest maps, trade safety is served, data and information are provided with high accuracy, a climate of confidence between the citizen and the administration is established, it is very limited or it ceases trade with the administration, the forestry services. For forestry services, by mapping forest maps, valid and reliable information is provided without doubt, potential is released from work through time-consuming processes. In her hands there is an effective tool for protecting public property. Reliable data reporting shall be ensured and the cost of running the forestry service shall be reduced. In this context, indicatively and completely concisely, this draft law simplifys and promotes the procedures for the acquisition or use of land for agricultural use, which will suspend the ratification of the forest map until the completion of the approval process by the forest offices. The cost of the acquisition or use of forest land shall be reduced by determining the purchase price or the consideration of use at one quarter of the objective or market value, but also by the same increase in the number of instalments payable. The existence of structures in granted areas is ensured (water tanks, drilling, PPC meters, shelters and others), which accompany, support and serve agricultural activity. The aim is to develop the primary sector, which is the pillar of the country's socially fair productive reconstruction. It is foreseen that the non-requirement for an economic study on land for agricultural use between 1975 and 2007, which is part of the IAC system, is provided for. Ladies and gentlemen, in recent years there has been talk of the need to return the country to normality. The government in its policy is trying to do so. However, what regularity we are talking about, when the situation in most areas of socio-economic life has been chaotic for many years, and the country must not go back to normality, but create and shape terms of community. In this case, the forest maps, for which there was a need, but also a relevant legal obligation, were not completed. And this, because interests would be perpetuated, would be the cost of party costs for those who have been ruling for decades. They therefore followed their tactics 'no harm to bad texts' and to conceal the problems underneath the carpet. The government, despite the suffocating budgetary conditions, takes decisions, opening up issues relating to the development of the country that had previously been seized. The suspension, ratification and management of forest maps are a factor contributing to the country's socially just production reconstruction. One last thing. I would like to keep what you said, Minister, in one of the meetings of the committee responsible, that there will be arrangements and modifications that will make it easier for citizens both institutionally and economically. This is necessary, especially in areas of barren disadvantage, with very small lots, where problems are greater than usual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u189	Thank you, too. Well, because the time is almost 22.00, I suggest that Mr Xydakis, the Parliamentary Representative of SYRIZA, and two other speakers from the list, as is in order to have an economy for tomorrow. Then on the list is Mr Athanasios and Mr Koukoutsi. If Mr. Koukoutsi left, then Mr. Ursouzidis. Do you agree to close there?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u190	Come on, Mr. Xydakis. Do you want all twelve minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u191	Yeah, but I'm probably not gonna run it out. Thank you. The debate today is indicative of a more general political climate since the first approach to the agreement of 7 April. It's an upgrade on a tempting recovery course and an effort to consolidate normality and stability. In this direction, we also see some of the previous cries of the Opposition to land and acquire another tone. The camp of "go" lands in a new period of time. And I hope that the tone we have seen in recent years, the Cold Wars, the Civil Wars, the crowns of intolerance and hostility and on the right side, which remembered the dark past, but also from the extreme centre, which concludes the misanthropic ideology of neoliberalism, will move on to another level of discussion at least. Because it is a deadlock to invest in things that cannot be legally imposed in a political way and simply lead to a collapse of political speech and public space. The criticism of the government's actions is often expelled by political people and colleagues here in this Parliament who seem to have nothing to do with any past, that there is no country in this long and rich experience of Post-policy. Let us say, for the projects that have recently been launched, the four major roads, I would advise the Vice-Presidents and, in particular, the New Democracy, to study a very comprehensive time report by journalist Giorgos Lialios on "KATHMERINI", which takes the thread from 2007 until today, from Minister Sufflia to Minister Hatzidakis and until today's inauguration, to find out with what kinds of contracts at the expense of the public interest, at the expense of public money, these major projects have been launched and how, at best, costs have been more than doubled in the initial or threefold. Four roads cost 6 billion euros. All time estimates have fallen out and we can understand that this 20-year-old credit over-expansion, the stock exchange bubble and the expansion of the interplanetary has inevitably led to what we have experienced painfully as a bankruptcy for seven years. Indeed - and here I will sometimes agree with some of our critics in this Chamber - the cycle of post-population is being shut down with frugality, and a new national composition is indeed needed, but not with the tools, approaches and retraining of this past which has led us to bankruptcy. We cannot claim that you “eat and heal” again and again. Already in the last five years, the political scene has been completely reordered and will continue to be restructured. Young people, new ideas, new forces representing this new society emerging through the pain of this social transformation will also invade this Chamber. If we want somewhere to agree to this new national composition that will mark the 21st century, it is whether we will be able to respond functionally, regardless of which side of the energies we are sitting in, in the three-fold high historical and national risk: the rapid plunging demography, the very bad demographic data for the Greek people, for the Greek population, the continuing migratory waste and the very high unemployment. These are the three major factors that consume the population and it is very likely that in the next thirty - forty years we have been classified from Europe's middle-class in the small, plus the great geopolitical instability that began since the destabilisation of the Mediterranean and continues rapidly with Turkey and with our neighbourhood in the Balkans. These are the major challenges for the new national composition, for the new course of the Greek people, in which our contribution should be ideas, strength, honesty and not this climate of intolerance, hostility and civilisation, which is often cultivated - densely and with enormous irresponsibleness. We have changed, changed constantly, become others inevitably through this historic 'camini' of the last seven years. We have lived and lived many of us a painful cancellation for the past few years. Let us find another way, but not with the tools of civil-war logic, blind faith in neoliberalism, which is already destroying the countries in Europe and already devouring democracy. We need other reasons, other considerations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u192	The speaker of the New Democracy, Mr Athanasios, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u193	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Javarras, referring to the great philosopher, said he needed a new contract, a contract between society and nature. Indeed, in view of the current criticisms which are being heard, we could say that it is necessary, Mr Javarra, much more that the war today between the economy and the ecology is imprudent. Ladies and gentlemen, the issue the bill is negotiating is indeed very serious about the country's forest wealth. Therefore, Minister, you would need a better treatment - you have heard the criticisms of many Members of all the groups - which would have provided the opportunity for you to improve the bill, but also for this to be voted on by Parliament with the greatest possible consensus, which has not happened. I do not understand why he should have come with such an interest and very urgent procedure such a sensitive, but also a technical issue, because he should have come with this government's excuse, that he should have been voted last year on 8 May. This has also been made clear by the positions of the institutions, most of which, as you have seen, have come unprepared because they have not had time to study the provisions and to deepen them. Of course, we did not expect a bill with technical issues to understand the bilingualism and hypocrisy that characterise the government's political speech. However, it needs to be mentioned a case which is a typical example of your policy underpopulation in these two and a half years. Let us not forget that it is not much time that our Government recommended Law 4280/2014, which was also passed. Then, in your view, a "forest law", as you described it, and you would announce it immediately. Then you were literally on the bars. Today, two and a half years later, this law is intact. Indeed, as it appears in today's bill, the government is probably legislating in the opposite direction in relation to its earlier assumptions. In other words, the bill is based on a logic of 'closing the issues and collecting the fees we impose, so that we have money to appoint day-to-day with amendments'. That is your logic, ladies and gentlemen of the coup d'état, apart from a few of you who are still trying to react to your failed ideological and anti-social policies. But most of you are just enjoying your positions. Unfortunately, by supporters of the party 'I do not pay', you are now the party's government 'I am all appointing and paying'. I wonder, however, how you will come out to look at pensioners and low-paid people tomorrow with the new measures which you will be bringing to Parliament very soon. I shall now refer to the articles. Minister, I heard you talking about Article 2. I am referring to paragraph 3, with which they will now be taken into account for the possession of the property - and not the ownership of the property, take note of this - as a means of proof, i.e. without judicial control, and attestations on the evacuation issues. I am not going to talk about the unconstitutionality of the provisions, which Mr Karas has mentioned, so that I do not get tired of. Indeed, you need to study the position of Mr Carras, because there is a problem relating to decisions which are not only final, but possibly irrevocable by the highest courts in the country. So you're saying we're taking a jury testimonies. That is why you are putting a jury of assurances only to cover what our rapporteur, Mr Screkas, has said, but many other rapporteurs too, have said. What jury testifies? Jury statements, in accordance with our procedural procedure and Article 421 of the Code of Civil Procedure, are made before a notary, a peacekeeping or a consulate, namely a consulate authority. The sworn certificate is not "go and I swear somewhere" or in a police department or in the civil service centres, and I say "I do have the occupation...". This needs to be clarified. In fact, your weakness is seen by saying that it is not taken into account unless it is combined with other documents, not public, but with simple statements by the holder. That is not a document that proves something - nor a public document is, nor is it a private document with a certain chronology - but it is simply that: I make a statement and I say that this is mine. You say that there are no factions of affidavits to be taken into account, that it is not enough to accept the occupation unless it is taken into account by the parallel presentation of other documents - statements to the DU. All right, I'm going and making a statement to IOY, and I'm saying this is mine! Or I make a statement to the OGA, and I declare that I have a rural area that is mine. It is a private document which has no value. This is all to heal the imperfections I mentioned. Under Article 2(4), paragraph 8 of Article 47 of Law 998/1979 is amended, which also raised it as a key issue by Mr Screkas and the committee responsible. I think you said this today, Mr Skreka, but this morning I did not hear you when you were in the Chair because I was in another committee. The new wording does not make it clear whether they have to pay the purchase price for those who have acquired land that has changed before 1975. They will probably also have to pay a takeover fee, but also a change in use. In any case, it is wrong that these people should be charged at costs for something that happened over forty years ago because of the transformation of the Greek economy, when they did not even own these land, but had a mere occupation. Domestic payments are, of course, a good thing, but they do not abrogate the major, that is, the takeover. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. Article 4 - following on from what I have said - is governed by the logic of normalisation and the collection of revenues for the State. That's 'turkey', but there's 'fag'! Watch out. Article refers to paragraph 8 of Article 45 of Law 998/1979 in respect of the amount of the fee to be paid to those operating agricultural land which has been exported between 1975 and 2007. This fee is now called, combined, ‘customs for use and reafforestation costs’. However, this amount can be freely altered upwards with a simple ministerial decision, based on the provision - a combination now - of paragraph 45. 8. Therefore, the benefits of the provision may be called tomorrow to pay superfluous sums without any supporting basis at all. This is indeed a reproach for the present government, where, in the midst of the economic situation and economic tolerance, you understand the burdens it has. Now we go to article 5. Don't laugh, Minister! Laughing is weakness. I want arguments. Laughing is weakness.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u194	Mr. Athanasios, you have exceeded time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u195	It is not convincing, therefore, that Article 5(2) will not create an recruitment industry from the National Register and the Mapping, i.e. the public limited company. The expenditure is completely vague, it has no ceiling. This is why Article 75(2) of the Report of the General Accounting Office of the State is also noted. Take a look. So it leads to other recruitments? Now listen to what the institutions have told us. I am referring to one case of the district director of Epirus, Mr Kahrimanis. They protest - not only that, but other bodies - to maintain the obligation to produce evidence of instruments raised before 1946 to settle cases under Article 67 of Law 998.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u196	Finish, Mr. Athanasios.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u197	I'm done, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u198	I can't see it!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u199	Finally, this Article exempts multiples and social invoice holders from the charge for services of general interest. I believe that this provision is in the right direction, but, given the current economic crisis, a way must be found to ensure that this deficit can be restored. I had a little more to say, but it's been time. I thank you for your tolerance, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u200	The applause for Mr. Athanasios was very strong. Now we are going to have the floor for the independent Member, Mr Koukoutsi. Because he's ready, meanwhile, Mr. Ursouzidis, we'll make a concession to talk to him, too, and then we'll close. Mr. Koukoutsis, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u201	Thank you, Madam President. So what's our country? Don't be bells? Don't be the rivers? Don't be the mountains, the white mountains? Don't be one or the other. Our homeland after the suspension of forest maps is an endless forest area up-to-date with recent figures - now! - of the 1945 salutary year and "ordes" - within introductory - trespassers to lead to the only way out of the law, the objection, after an indiscriminate paradox, a sum, as the lady, who is the rapporteur of SYRIZA, said, to prove that the grandfather and great-great-grandfather of these people were not yet a wicked man like those who filled the mountains with villas, with windmills, the islands and swimming pools of the apartments. Evidently the year of reference would be an inspiration to some unreasonable and unreasonable service factor that the forest would know as much as the red burlap would be on its way to her grandmother. But come on, only fairy tales have a good ending! For how can you explain now - and I will ask you very much to respect me for two minutes - that these plaques in a small country that has been deprived of the opportunity to have registered, counted and characterized its land was just so that not all of these years were lost by notaries, lawyers and now forestists? Where appropriate they are decisions of a modern state with so-called development laws and prospects. The country of hypocrisy! What if in the '40s the grandparent defending the home of the conquerors let his family and his property desolate for a better future! Their offspring must now discover some plausible detail to save their field from the neck of this brutal raid. In the end, let us dare to say some simple truths here in Parliament. Is it such a shameful crime if decades ago he replaced the olive pork and was able to nourish his fame and produce a product and revenue for the state, thus preventing his children from joining the mass of unskilled big cities workers? Probably the producer's status is an offence in this country and must be fought in every way, because everything that is self-headed and self-sufficient is a threat to the electoral rhetoric of the parties, which is basically directed at people who do not have the sun fate and whose fate is the ministry, the gesture of the benefactors, as they take the charity of the extraordinary aids. So, vast forest maps everywhere, with evidence and before '45s, if any, can be made possible. Alalum! You want the proof? My place of origin, Manny. A year ago the Government recognised that in the regions of the East and West Mani the public does not claim rights and that is why it supplemented Article 62 of Law 998/1979. Today and without making any distinction, it also calls on the Maniates to buy their farm assets, that is to say, those that the state does not have the right. They call and call out the Maniotians that it is essentially a confiscation of many paternal properties. All the improvements to the forest maps announced do not concern Mani. All concerns the trespassers of the rest of Greece, because Mani has a differentiation. Others are the ones who ejected plumbing to plant olives or vineyards on public land. They are the ones that the law incorporates in its practice of giving. They're getting property rights on instalments. However, it goes against the argument that there can be no exception in Mani - so said a government MP - because it stumbles on the country's constitution. Now how can public land trespassers be legitimized? "We are not, ladies and gentlemen, trespassers," the Manites say. "We never evacuated public land, we never stole public land, because we simply had and possessed owners who naturally are not the state and give us no room, because we are not trespassers." The reasons for Mani’s land are well known. In urban centers, police have devastated our villages. Only the old ones left behind. Then came the mechanical cultivation. Among the chickens - because of the chickens they were - they took the mule to rage with difficulty or with the tea hands. The earth was left unbearable. Where there was no wheel going - and we all know then that the rural roads were no longer there - the Manites stopped picking up even their olives. And when with the money of the hostess they succeeded and took "roots" - they are not my words, they are words of Maniattes, what I am telling you now - the forest law of my patriot Bootou, 998/79, which forbids the land to be cultivated, then hundreds of Maniattes were brought to court for their property. With this tampering, then, over their heads, in fear of being wrapped in a paper glue, we reached the forest maps, who, he says, receive elements of the 1945 aerial photography. In '45, we were preparing for civil war, living under the stress of the civil war.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u202	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u203	Yeah, in Manny, especially all of them...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u204	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u205	There you can look for left-wings. Two villages are gathered.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u206	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u207	Let go, sir. How, then, can we trust a state that, at the level of public investment, is far from Mani and now comes to eat us our property, which the Manites say, is likely to be also tourist pie? Since I don't have time, I have to tell you that Mani is the first region of Greece that deposited on March 10, 2017 and under deposit number 677 - you will not manage to separate us by the way to right and left in Mani, the issues are uniform and are for all Maniats - an application to cancel forest maps in the Council of State. For reasons of annulment, the non-legislative decision, No 146776/2016, adopted on 21 October, on the basis of which the history of forest maps began, inconsistent with the Plenary Assembly of the Council of State which considered the provisions of Article 3 of the Law unconstitutional. Article 1 of the first Additional Protocol to the European Convention on Human Rights and Article 17(7) of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u208	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u209	Finally, I would like to say this: in resolutions given by the maniac competition committees, they call for the immediate withdrawal of the procedure of suspension of forest maps, the setting up of committees without members of local forest services for on-the-spot inspection and correction of errors, thirdly the designation of 'agricultural area' for Mani, where there are traces of human activity, which is demonstrated by the large or small physical witnesses.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u210	Mr. Koukoutsi, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u211	Ten seconds, Madam President. The reduction if not zeroing at any fee set to relaunch the suspension process of the excellently corrected forest maps. Thank you so much and I'm sorry I've been over my time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u212	I would like, before we finish and leave, to express our condolences to the loss of the mother of Vice-President Nikita Kaklamani, who is being preached tomorrow in order to keep it in mind. Now we have the last speaker from SYRIZA, Mr Ursouzidis. You have the floor, Mr Ursouzidis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u213	Thank you very much, Madam President. I would also like to thank those colleagues who have done me a favor today to close the sitting and I will be very brief. Minister, we have known each other for many years, and we have known each other under such circumstances that we have tried - not to fight - to help the environment so that uses that were completely foreigners are not installed in relation to the concept of forest. So today we are controlling and controlling you, because we are going to install some uses, which may not be in line with protection. Here I will focus and try to be very brief: Article 24 of the Constitution: "Protection of the natural and cultural environment is an obligation of the State. A customs tariff is an obligation of the State.’ Only the state for too many years has forgotten this obligation. It follows that ‘It shall be prohibited to change the destination of forests and forest land, unless the national economy is concerned by the agricultural holding or other use, which is subject to the public interest’. So, as far as the agricultural holding is concerned, it stands out from all other uses, assuming that it is enough by itself to install such a soft form of forest exploitation. It is well known - and we told the Committee on Production and Trade - that the people who came from the old homeland to the new homeland did not always have the best hospitality than the locals. They have therefore had to catch the mountains to set up their homes there and evacuate land for many decades to survive. I now come to Article 2, which refers to the evidence required to establish that the activity is being carried out. In my view, it is more sacred than the testimony of these people and, in particular, of the grandparents, it does not exist and cannot be substituted for any document of the Greek state. Imathia Prefecture we have such cases. I have already referred to the village of Sykia, in which these families who raised children, sent them ghosts, studied them, fought for nearly three generations, are faced with local forests in order to alienate them from this activity, so that these areas can regain the characterisation of the forest. The absolute irrationality. So it comes - with great satisfaction, I imagine in all the wings of this House - that this bill at least gives these people the right to do so with regard to what they have offered home, growing up, as my children have said, by studying them, sending fanatics and serving, as we say, the harmonious coexistence of forests with man. That is what I have to say, Madam President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u214	Thank you very much, Mr Ursouzidis. Ladies and gentlemen, the minutes of the sittings of Friday 24 February 2017, Wednesday 1 March 2017, Thursday 2 March 2017 and Friday 3 March 2017 have been distributed and the House is asking whether it will ratify them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u215	The minutes of the sittings of Friday 24 February 2017, Wednesday 1 March 2017, Thursday 2 March 2017 and Friday 3 March 2017 were therefore validated. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-10-S1-commons.u216	The meeting for tomorrow, Tuesday, April 11, 2017, on the subject of Parliament's work: legislative work, continuation of discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Environment and Energy: "Amendments to the provisions of forestry legislation and other provisions".
