ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent question report on Thursday 26 October 2017. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Under number 107/23-10-2017, a topical question by MP Kosanis of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Ioannis Theoktou to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Creating sites for local products at the Automotive Service Stations (S.A.).(')'. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 109-23-10-2017 by MP Heraklion of New Democracy, Eleftherios Aygenakis to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Building new public works services - weakening the Cretan Road Axis (OAK) - jeopardizes public works on Crete". 3. The 151/24-10-2017 topical question by Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of the Interior, on "Recognizing the profession of firefighters as a heavy, unhealthy and dangerous one and taking protective measures during the incidents". 4. The Question No 102/20-10-2017 by H' Vice-President of the Parliament and Mr Piraeus II of the Independent Greeks Mr Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Culture and Sports, concerning archaeological delays and the loss of revenue in Metro Thessaloniki. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 110/23-10-2017 topical question by MP Evros of New Democracy Mr Anastasios Prussias Prussia to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the resumption of operation of the passenger railway station Pythios - Evros. We enter the supplementary agenda of LEGISLATIVE WORK Only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of National Defence: "Confidentiality of career and development of officials and financial care and accounting of the Armed Forces, setting up of a Joint Economic Commission for Inspectors and other provisions". I am aware that the Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 19 October 2017 to discuss this draft law at a single meeting in principle, articles and amendments. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u2	The House therefore agreed. Before giving the floor to the rapporteur, Minister Kammenos asked for the floor and of course he has it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u3	We also want the floor, Mr President, on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u4	Yes, sir. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr President. To make it easier for me to submit the legislative improvements first. I think you've taken the parties from yesterday afternoon. We've shared them. I will read them so that we can have a debate on them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u6	Others, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u7	Oh, no. They're the ones that we testified yesterday. I'm just gonna read them to be recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u8	Are they the ones you testified to yesterday or others?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u9	They're the ones I testified to yesterday. Legal improvements to Article 1. (a) in the subparagraph of paragraph 3, the words ‘of the year in which’ shall be deleted; In the first subparagraph of paragraph 7, the words ‘up to three months’ shall be replaced by ‘up to six months’. It's about the air force that's gone in June. We had it three months, we put it six months to include June. At the end of paragraphs 6 and 7, the subparagraph is added as follows: ‘For these officers, the provisions of paragraph 14 of Article 5 of the d.20/1993 A75 shall not apply’. Legislative improvement on Article 5. In paragraph 3, the following subparagraph is added: ‘For those who have already been deported, the degree of colonialism, the master, without any pension or other economic rights being incurred, shall be honorably awarded.’ This is about Army and Navy soldiers from the N.P. Schools who, while the Air Force take the grade, into the Army and the Navy don't take him. It is a request, which they have made, and I think it is a fair request, and we must satisfy it. It has no burden on the budget. Legislative improvement on Article 12. In the first subparagraph of paragraph 3, the words ‘according to international audit standards’ shall be replaced by the words ‘by taking into account international audit standards’. This emerged at the hearing of the bodies. At the end of the Article, the new paragraph is added as follows: ‘Financial inspectors shall not be prosecuted and shall not be heard of their opinion in the performance of their duties. In the case of IAL, the breach of the confidentiality of information and data, which have come to their attention in the performance of their duties, and the breach of the duty of confidentiality, in which they are required, are excluded.’ That's a copy of the police.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u10	Mr President, if the Minister permits me, I would like to take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u11	You're welcome, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u12	Mr. Loverdo, let the Minister finish first.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u13	Mr President, we do not understand them that way, so you are afflicted and afflicted.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u14	Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u15	After you submitted them and they are yesterday, with the formalisation of the statement by you today and the distribution of them, we can see them. You don't have to read them all.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u16	You've taken them from yesterday, just in the process of Parliament...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u17	Please, Mr. Loverdo. Let the Minister finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u18	No legislative improvements are ever read, Mr President! You know that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u19	Yes, but you stopped the minister halfway through.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u20	You want me not to read them? I won't read them if you've taken them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u21	Let the Minister read them and share them later.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u22	That's enough. If the House...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u23	We do not understand them that way, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u24	Mr President, we have no objections. If colleagues have taken them from yesterday, I do not read them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u25	All right, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u26	Two comments I would like to make. First of all, a proposal on the oral tendering procedure. We're taking him out.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u27	We don't have them in our parties.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u28	They've shared in the parties. You've taken them from yesterday.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u29	To accept that they have not arrived and will be shared.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u30	Please share them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u31	It's from yesterday at 17:00 in your office. Haven't they shared? They've been given since last afternoon by the Ministry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u32	We don't have them in our parties.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u33	Mrs. Canelle, what can I do? I submitted them as a debt to the House to share in the parties.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u34	To share!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u35	Mrs. Kanelle, they'll share.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u36	I've given it to them since yesterday. Anyway, they should have been shared, Mr President, so that we can have a debate. I apologise for that. Well, it's not about us.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u37	The Secretariat, Minister, tells me that you have told me that you have told them not to give them to the Secretariat.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u38	No, we sent them to the Secretariat at 17:00.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u39	To the committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u40	Anyway, let's share now to get this over with. However, they are improvements in the practical and themes that you have raised.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u41	Please share. Go on, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u42	I would like to address two points: one is in relation to oral invitations to tender. Although it is of no value, I accept that there is complete transparency to remove it, that it is only an electronic competition. I am now going to deal with an issue which has to do with the 1990 order. I asked for the opinion of the Staff. It is for subdued to the Armed Forces in 1990, under the provisions of Law 2439/96. I have therefore requested the views of the Staff Committee, because I have heard Mr Prussakis say that he has a positive view of the OHIM. It's a negative opinion of the HR and I'll testify to you. It was positive in May. In October, when we again asked for the views of the Staff, all four staff are negative. However, once the groups, Mr Karayannis and Mr Katsikis have asked for this, but also the opposition, I accept, despite the fact that the Staff are negative, since we are all agreed to pass it, namely to join the 1990 classes. He is Chairman of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) Groups of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian It accepts the opposition. If there is no objection from anyone, I put it as a proposed regulation - an amendment to career regulations as an amendment - to add, which integrates those who are in the 1990 Armed Forces and corrects the injustice of 1988-1989.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u43	Minister, a little clarification with the President's permission. Can you explain, with two words, the refusal of the Staff? Because we're in a difficult position too. We are suddenly a parliament which tells you to put the year of 1990. You're telling us that all the staff are against it. Take this, you'll pass it. Somewhere it's a contradiction, a little bit to bridge it. We do not know what the reason for the objection is.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u44	So I read you the reply of the Staff. "With Law 3883/2010, the legislator introduced a fixed time point for the transition from the old, to the new career context, before or after 31/12/1987. The above framework, having already been amended by Law 4407/2016- officers from ASAs and volunteers, volunteers ranked up to 31-12/1989; on the one hand, he is now deprived of his stable role, for which Law 3883/2010 provided, but also opens the way for further claims. In any event, there shall be no justification for not amending the above limit and for the officers from the IARs. Submission to Law 2439/1996 and the officials listed in 1990 will give rise to discreet treatment and confusion of application by the relevant crisis organs of officials assigned in the same year, but have different origins. For example, the same rating at compulsory school will be part of a different performance scale for officers from ASAs and ASAs. Furthermore, issues of antiquity will be raised between officers from the AACC and officials from the 1990 ranking year due to the retrospective crisis and the promotion of the latter in the shorter periods of Law 2439/1996. The possible inclusion of the officers from the AACS who joined the Armed Forces in 1990 will be one of the officers from the category of permanentised volunteers under Law 445/1974 and permanentised volunteers under Law 705/1977, just as was the case with the respective categories with years of ranking in 1988 and 1989. The OHIM recommends maintaining the proposed law of the DPO, i.e. their earlier promotion to the extent of the captain and corresponding for the reasons set out in this explanatory statement: the counterfactuality of their delayed graduation in relation to the younger officers of the same category and evolution. However, it should be noted that the entry into Law 2439/1996 of the officers of the same category, with years of ranking in the Armed Forces in 1988-89, provides a legal basis for claims in the same category of officials ranked in 1990.' Here, let me tell you exactly what it is. It is more about some of the administrations that are already the commander flying and the engineer lieutenant. The mechanic lieutenant, who is in the 1990 ’ s, is promoted and essentially in antiquity, is above the commander.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u45	The one year it takes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u46	He's the one he's taking. So this in several units will create management issues. That's what H.O.D. and Staff says. I understand that, but I also understand the request of the 1990 order to regulate this issue as it has been made in 1988-1989. The truth is, when we set up 1988 and 1989, we set it by setting a limit and putting an end to this story. However, because I have the suggestion of the parties, of the Groups of the Parliamentary Party and of the Opposition Party, I am obliged to accept it. But if you are judging that you want to leave it to talk about it at the end, see it yourself, see the staff recommendations, I can leave it to talk about it at the end.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u47	In the end.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u48	In the end. Then, Mr President, I am tabling the amendment - adding as an unsigned text and submitting all four contributions from the General Staff, so that the House can decide. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u50	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u51	On what matter would you like to speak, Mr Loverdos?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u52	The procedure you propose.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u53	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u54	Can you tell us the time of the rapporteurs?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u55	It's the designated, fifteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u56	Now listen. It is the experience of all the rapporteurs that we have had so many days' work in the Standing Committee on Defense. I do not see the Chamber filled, so I do not see too many speakers from my colleagues. I would ask you and the others who will be chairing today to show a tolerance for the rapporteurs. A hundred percent needs this, Mr President. No rapporteur, but perhaps few, has managed to be sufficient in the fifteen minutes. Now you're going to tell me that we've brought issues out here too. There have been amendments and there are issues which we will not be asking about, and for which we had bought in the committee. That is right, however, in plenary we also have political issues. We have the last debate here before the vote. So, for articles such as those relating to economic inspectors, to trade in the Armed Forces, the issues that are not covered, Mr President, in the fifteenth minute are so great. That is why I would ask you very much to show tolerance from the first rapporteur so that we can end today, but also to have tabled our arguments with a sufficient degree. It's not coming out. Political issues are very serious and technically very detailed. Please respect this very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u57	As you know, there is always this understanding and we always give the rapporteur time when he wants to conclude his speech on the subject. Especially you must not have any complaints personally, Mr. Loverdos. Whenever you've asked for time, you've taken him. Mr Karayannides, rapporteur of SYRIZA, has the floor under the Rules of Procedure for 15 minutes and we can see.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to say that the Minister is showing up and accepting a demand that is demanded by the Politics, but also by the whole of the Opposition and saying to the end. I don't know why. The '90s class is...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u59	Colleague, the Chiefs disagree.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u60	I'd complete my reckoning if you didn't interrupt me, though. So I'll explain. The way the situation is in this particular category of officers, there's an empty one. We've got '88-89 blanks, '91-92 and he goes by saying. The '90 officers are in the 1996 law, but they are promoted by a different law. It's the only year. There's no other year. It's just her. So let me tell you about the Staff. The staff were negative, Mr. Colleague, and for the '88-89, if you don't know it and yet it went through. So when I say something, you expect me to say it all. Don't interrupt me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u61	What does that matter? I don't understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u62	None at all in your opinion.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u63	You do not respect the Chiefs of Staff...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u64	So the Opposition says...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u65	I've been expecting a new placement from you and a lesson you won't do to us! So when the Heads disagree, we must hear why they disagree. I repeat, the Minister says the Chiefs disagree. And so that's a matter. What don't you understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u66	Mr. Karayannides, continue your speech. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u67	Mr Colleagues, the rapporteur of the New Democracy has supported what I am saying. If you have a dignosis in your party, talk to each other.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u68	Mr. Karayannides, continue your speech. Don't have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u69	So I'm saying that the staff had a negative recommendation in '88-89, and yet it changed. So we must end this and move on, since there is unanimity, according to the rapporteur of the New Democracy, but also to all the other parties in the opposition, and we do not have to go to the end. I'm coming to the bill now. It has four chapters, which are distinguished as follows: In the first chapter, which deals with the career development of the Armed Forces executives, an effort is being made with the first articles, with the first one, to return to active action officers in non-organic positions to offer with their experience from the entire time they were in the Greek Army. This is a serious arrangement concerning the return of experienced military officials, if they so wish, even beyond their thirty-five years' term of office for a maximum of five years. In this way, we cover adequate administrative needs of the Ministry of National Defence, which had become diluted by the Memorandum of Restraint of Response. In Article 2, provision is made for a Presidential Decree for the award of a detainee's degree of lien and equivalent to long-term defence officer volunteers. Here, on the New Democracy side, there was an objection - which I do not find to be based - that these officers will claim legal fees. This level is being awarded honorably and I do not think it is based somewhere legally on claiming money. After all, the officers themselves argue that this level is honorable and is acknowledging the efforts of these people over the years they were in the Greek Army. Article 3 gives the possibility of reintroducing to the ranks of the Drought Army up to five special permanent pilot officers. The Minister has explained why we ask these officers to return. They're necessary for training. In Article 4, in particular, with regard to those who came from school officers in 1990 - what we said before - a solution is given which has been discussed for a year also through the Staff and the officers concerned, but also through the political parties. It is perhaps one of the few times that the parties have a consensus to that extent. Article 5 allows officers from school officers and holds an AEI - I think we had asked for a legal improvement to be included also by the holders of a TEI, because they are also tertiary education - to enjoy the rights granted to HEI holders. In Article 6 and 7, the rank of the Brigadier is determined as a final point for the military priests. In Article 7, the deadline set out in Article 10(2) of the 2010 Article shall be amended to allow officials wishing to transfer to the Permanent Officers' College or to the Permanent Officers' Corps to apply until 31 December each year. There is also a provision for these people. And we're going to Chapter II, which is the formation of an Economic Crime Corps and an Internal Security Corps. On the New Democracy side, it was heard that subjection to the Minister raises issues and there is nowhere else. Indeed, the example of the Ministry of Public Order was given where it is indeed the Chief. The Port, however, is addressed to the Minister and it is something that we did not do, but the previous governments did. In other words, the House is addressed to the Minister and the Ministry of Shipping. And it is not something that we created in a legal context, but that was created by the Qualified Opposition when it was the government itself. So there's an attempt to control and, above all, a sensitive ministry, like the Ministry of National Defence, financially. This is how we prove that we are trying to combat corruption by means of acts, as long as it exists in this ministry. In the same way, this body is managed by officers. Objections have been made about how to staff. I think that with the legislative improvements a number of answers have been given. I would like to say that both the Minister and the Deputy Minister of National Defence have accepted most of the comments to the committees discussed by the bill and that is on the positive side. These remarks, having been deemed correct and fair, have become part of this bill. It turns out that we are not bringing a bill that, as we bring it on the first day, is being tabled to Parliament and voted on. Part of these remarks, both from Elassona and the Major Opposition, have been accepted. In Chapter III, in Article 24 and 25 we are trying to regulate two things that, in our view, could help the officers of the Greek Army. Article 24 defines the right to remain an officer abroad for one more year, exceptionally, without a wage, trying to help people who have entered into married relations with citizens of that country in this process. In Article 25 there are the naturalized, mainly from countries of the former Soviet Union, who, in the previous situation, had to present themselves to the Greek Army. We give them a year to be able to settle all their cases and not be ahead of the threat of cutting their lives in half so that they can continue next year. In Article 26, again, certain arrangements were made by the Deputy Minister for payment of late payment. The date has been fixed, that is to say, until this payment of dues has been made, until how long it will be. I think there is no disagreement on this matter. It's a practice that already helps the Ministry of National Defence itself because he has an obstacle that he can't overcome. It cannot conclude new contracts. So, that's how we're trying to get through this stumbling block. In Article 27 there was a lot of talk. We had a bad view of the agencies. But I want to say something. There is a Panhellenic Federation that has thirteen years of life. We cannot ignore this prehistoric story. We cannot ignore those people who have fought for thirteen years to have a union in the Armed Forces, this union that is permitted to the Armed Forces. It is clear that we are not talking about the same union that exists in workers in other sectors, whether in the private or in the public sector. This must be recognised in a way. Neither the staff of this Pan-Hellenic Federation can be levelled or their arguments. On the other hand, we must reconcile the presence of a second Federation. This attempts to do the bill with the legislative improvements brought by the Deputy Minister. We believe that a sufficient period of six months has been provided to solve these problems. However, if the officers themselves do not understand that we have taken a positive step and are in the interests of their own interests and of their own working peace, which must be in the army, then we think there can be no union. But, on the other hand, what we have proposed is possible, with good intention from both sides. I think that the article will be accepted in spite of all the objections to withdrawal which have been made. We can't take a step back. We took a step forward with the previous law and ended with this article. In Article 28 many problems have arisen in imposing criminal clauses on an ECE which have entered into a supply contract with the Ministry of National Defence. The legislator regulates a subject that raised a number of contracts with the Ministry of National Defence. Thus, criminal clauses will amount to up to 6% of the contractual value of the material delivered, that is, exactly what is true of the contracts concluded by the Ministry of National Defence with private companies. I'm going to Article 30, which is also a big and painful story. The RAYTHEON Convention. In a way, I think in the interests of the public interest, we are trying to solve the problem that has been coming for decades, from the sinful conventions that have taken place in the past. We are also trying to get the Greek State to win, but there is also a spare part supply. Objections have been heard. I think they have been taken into account from the Ministry's side. There will also be a debate in the House and, if there are arguments for right objections, they will enter into this particular article. I'm sure the conversation - I'm saying this to catch up - as much as we want to talk about the bill as it is, will extend to the timeliness called F-16. After the explanations given by the Deputy Minister to the last committee, I think that any discussion will be held by a large majority if we do not stick to what the Deputy Minister has said, which has explained very specifically the whole procedure on the part of our country, the whole procedure on the part of the United States, how it will proceed in time and in calendars. There will be a discussion on this. It is obvious that these markets are not going to exist, as was the case in the distant or the nearest past. We have called for - and it has been accepted - that there should be a joint meeting of the Committees on National Defence and Foreign Affairs and Military Programmes. There will be a debate with more details and information and we will try to make this issue as transparent and clear as possible in terms of both government and Parliamentary Group SYRIZA and Independent Greeks. But stay on this, because the media cholera has also arrived at this level, where terrible purchases have been heard, about a fooling of the Prime Minister in America. It's heard what you can imagine, which is what we've been living anyway for the last two years with these supposed news. So, let us stick to the basic question that I put to the committee: if we agree that the F-16 should be operational - and that is why it has a cost - how will these aeroplanes be handled? If we agree on this, we will see how, how many planes and what costs - which have been determined in many cases - we will proceed further. But talk to it without exaggeration and exaggeration. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u70	I thank you, Mr Karayannides, and the consistency of time. The rapporteur of the New Republic has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, we waited for you to bring the House a bill which would solve practically the problems of the Armed Forces, which would restore the injustices or even part of the injustices suffered by the officials of the Armed Forces and which you have admitted on occasion. We were expecting you to tell us that you have taken care of the implementation of the decision of the Council of State in granting their justified retrospectives, as planned by the Government of New Democracy, in a specific timetable. Now, indeed, that the government and as the 'Saint Basilian', according to statements by its staff, is ready to share a billion euros in various social groups - which are in need - should not have been interested in taking their money and those who are doing their full duty in Evros, Thrace and the Aegean islands? What about the pensions of the retired personnel carrying out dangerous duties, such as the flying of all arms and charges, paratroopers, officers, submarines and, in general, all the officers and officials of the Special Forces? To these executives under the drafting of October 2017 and as part of the implementation of Article 13 of the 2016 Act, the then Minister of Labour, Mr. Katrugalou, was imposed from 1-6-2016 until 31-12-2018 a dramatic reduction in their pensions, which, together with retrospectively, will amount to approximately EUR 500 a month. We were expecting you to tell us about the allowance for the 100 euro border. Will you give it to the officers of the Armed Forces and the Police, as regulated by the last law? We expected you to bring such issues to the House, in essence, to restore the injustices caused by Mr Katrugalos and to whom you handed over the officials of the Armed Forces and you had no opinion and did not raise your objections. So, what are you bringing in with this bill? Work with photographic devices to help your own people. You are being touched wrongly and dangerously on a serious issue, such as the association of the Armed Forces, with purely party criteria and not just. Your goal is to promote your own man, indifferent to the damage you do in the area of the Armed Forces. Article 27 is a "bomb" in the area of Armed Forces and the reactions it causes are explosives. You must know, Minister, that the Armed Forces are organised groups with military structure and organization and training. I can say that it is forbidden to create the Greek foggy landscape in their ranks, because that is what you do with this article. To serve your own counselor, you cause unrest in all associations and not just. Our position as a New Democracy on this matter is crystal clear. We'll fix anything wrong you'll cause. We will approach the issue of the Armed Forces union with due seriousness, taking into account the international context and the internal experience, especially what many people want, and not the chosen ones. We are proposing to the other parties, not only to you, the establishment of an ad hoc intergroup committee, from which will emerge as a common component for implementation, with an obligation to apply it to any government. It is not right for one to legislate and when the next comes, to change. Mostly this is not right in the fragile area of the Armed Forces executives. However, since you have decided to vote in spite of our proposals, despite our requests, despite our requests, I would suggest that even at the last minute, you include a provision stating that, in the event of crises, diversions or even wars, the operation of associations should be suspended, of course, depending on the alert measure of the National Alert System. The reasons for dictating this regulation are very obvious. We don't do sterile opposition. We have proposals and have made them clear in the detailed discussions on the articles made in the Standing Committee on National Defence and Foreign Affairs. We are pursuing a responsible policy, with full confidence in the officials of the Armed Forces. We do not, however, have the political leadership of today. In this bill there are many traps, such as Article 2 concerning the demilitarisation of the lieutenant to long-term volunteers. You're giving them the cheese, but you're giving them a flashlight. Artificially you send the officials to the court proceedings to claim self-evident from the Greek state. With this arrangement you are urging over twenty thousand people, whether they are in the active service or in the reserve, to run to lawyers to play your voting game. You must know, and I say this with signature, that no degrees are given. The New Democracy has honest proposals. Look out! You said - you said your rapporteur too - that the level you give is honorable and is not required by the state to benefits. If you believe that, Minister, and you, your rapporteur, believes that, you should expressly write it in the law. Make the addition as you support it. But if you don't, you're mocking them. We say that every grade has consequences, payroll costs for the active, pension and dividend costs for the retired and sword-winners for all who take the rank of the lieutenant that costs 350 euros...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u72	You know better than the State General Accounting Office? You keep saying that. There is a report from the General Accounting Office of the State.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u73	The cost is high. The General Accounting Office of the State does not provide for costs, Minister. You gave it to us...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u74	Go on, Mr. Prussakis, not on vacation.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u75	If, however, you obtain from the General Accounting Office of the State, even late, the credit required means that you have secured it. We will look into it positively. We respect the charge of these Armed Forces officials. And I would like to inform you that the vast majority of these people come from my hometown and from my constituency. So I could grasp and agree with you. But I support, like our resignation, these executives and we do not mock them. You're throwing them north on the lawyers and the courts. If you want, we're here. Make the set. Predict it if it is gratifying. Set the law. If it is not, ensure the credit. We are positive in every solution we propose. On the other hand, we have Article 3, where we have your assurance that operators of special permanentity are necessary because of their experience. We also asked you in committee: is this your position, as is apparent from a document or the operational requirement of the General Staff? You didn't answer us. We believe the photographic character of this device is evident. Only the names are missing from her. At the first reading you claimed that the resetting of the five operators envisaged would meet needs for new helicopters to be received. The question is: Who will you pick up? Have you agreed? Are you waiting for them? We don't know. The question that arises is, too, why is there a preference for this particular category of personnel, namely pilots of special permanentity and not for executives from the country's highest military training institutions? That is why we are proposing to you - if you believe in the executives and those who have graduated from the productive schools and not only - the extension of the above provision to all sectors, to those who have graduated from the ADIs, as well as to those who have graduated from the AACS, as well as to joint interclass training for helicopters. We take into account that you have retreated and deleted the oral auction. Even late, I think we welcome it, as a New Democracy, because you have been drafted in our view, because our position was clear. Under the provisions of Articles 8 and 9, from the use of the useless material of the Armed Forces, revenues will go to the state budget, depriving the share funds of the armed forces, as they were to date. If for any reason you cannot explicitly regulate and continue this practice, let them go at least to the budget of the Ministry of National Defence, because then the Minister of National Defence - of course with the agreement of the Minister of Finance - has the opportunity to make his decision. I must remind you that this is in direct contrast with what you have advocated in the retired officers' associations recently. Another paradox is found in Article 10, where it is unthinkable that the Minister of National Defence, who holds a political position - the field of glory is brilliant, Minister, for a Minister of National Defence - to want to lead the Home Affairs Service. The new agency, which you want to establish, to establish, is a law enforcement authority. What does the Minister have to do with this mission? Why do you want to lead a body that is really inconsistent with the office of the Minister, but is it consistent with the office of the prosecutor? Since we're talking about the Department of National Defence, you've got a military prosecutor who's going to be able to take it. You must separate the Internal Affairs Body from the Chamber of Finance Inspectors. These are two different inter-sectoral services, which have a different mission, and these two services should be subject to the inter-class leader, i.e. the head of the OHIM. At the same time, however, supervision of the Internal Affairs Service must be exercised by the competent prosecutor, because he oversees the correct application of the law and he must direct this service, which must be under his supervision, that is, the Public Prosecutor, as he is at the Home Office of the Greek Police and the Ministry of Trade Shipping, in respect of the Greek Coast Guard. As a new democracy, then, Minister, we are voting against the bill in principle. We shall vote for the eleven articles from thirty for the first time as Opposition. That's political bravery. We believe that they are moving in the right direction. However, if we want to make a proposal, and indeed to be positive in principle, we suggest that you withdraw Rule 27 in terms of trade unionism in the Armed Forces. In conclusion, I would also like to refer to the issue that has been one of the topical and urgent debates on the F-16 agreement, following your recent trip with the Prime Minister in America. Even on this serious subject, you moved in with incredible amateurism. You let a blurred landscape hang over how much this upgrade program actually costs. We, from the first moment on in the Committee on Military Programmes, as well as in the former, but also in the current Head of State of the New Democracy, by speaking, but also by our President, have repeatedly stated that we consider it necessary to upgrade the F-16. The questions which arise will have to be answered. We have called for the committee to be convened. We are waiting there for you to give us all the explanations on a subject, which really concerns all Greeks. In fact, it even became fashionable for babies to deal with the F-16 issue. Also, because lastly the light of publicity has seen the possible establishment of a helicopter base in Alexandroupolis, I would like you to tell us whether we will be a transit hub of helicopter parts from the surrounding countries or whether it will indeed be a base that will employ people with a view to the progress and development of our region. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after taking part in the educational program "Workery Democracy" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twelve students and students and an educational attendant from the 41st Municipal School of Athens. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The rapporteur for the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR Mr Loverdos, for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u77	Mr President, first of all, I did not get the legislative improvements. It's an introductory word. Minister, they have not come, so there are issues which we will be talking about and which are not exactly the case, because they will have changed. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. They are the days of a journalist strike to support the EDEAP. As Minister for Labour, I have faced, Mr Ministers, the problem and, of course, I have not accepted that the resources of the EDPS should be abolished. All subsequent governments - until the SYRIZA - ANEL - have not accepted the troika's firm proposal then to abolish the resources of the EDPS. Mr Katrugalos and your government are abolishing it, Mr Kammenos, and today the rulings are defending the journalists' strike on this issue. Mercy in hypocrisy and madness! There is really no limit to the mockery and mockery of the Greek people. We also have examples of this excitement, of cubisms, of the two different ones, which assemble a political subject, the Government of SYRIZA - ANEL, on issues of the Ministry of National Defence. You said to the committee - before me - in reply to my speech, that you understand the problem of the widows of the soldiers, that you agree with me that the revenues of Katorugalo 177 million from the widows of the soldiers are false revenues, there are no such figures, we have exchanged a number in committee - close to us - much less than the revenues provided for in the Katrugalos Act, which you voted with almonds in May 2016 here, we come to plenary for a month and this amendment does not exist. Furthermore, who does not remember the current Minister of National Defense to blame us, for the decision of the Council of State we gave military officers 50%! We couldn't do more. And you said 'Everything'! You made a commitment. And after three years, you're still looking at them, and you still promise them. To close this remembrance of many and various premises for today's majority SYRIZA - ANEL to its recent self, who are the same as today's, is a political subject. I say this here, Minister, this is the government of Maduro and Maduro left. But are your military commanders telling you that you have put, in agreement with Mr Katrugalos, 2 000, the pension line and you are including dangerous status allowances there? I mean, we're lifting our hands. We are, in fact, raising our hands with the mismatch of stated political objectives, with the policy applied, which, when these two are distinguished, produces inconvenience and unreliability of the political system. Whoever listened to the Deputy Minister of National Defense the other day in Parliament talking about F-16, wouldn't he say that this speech is the definition of policy of possibilisation, the asshole, as you have now registered and a term at international level? I was listening to him, and I thought I heard a NATO official. And yet, some time ago, here in this Chamber, Mr. Vitsas officially said SYRIZA's position against NATO and armaments. And now, they are mocking the Greek people, having themselves entered one of the cookies of the high-speed race. And because they feel embarrassed and understand that they are being addressed to other audiences, leaving 36% for voting, they are already confusing them. Minister, on this particular point. Mr. Theocharopoulos - he's here - In the Committee on Equipment on 20 September he asked you to say 'yes', 'no' or 'no' to the upgrade of the F-16. You are speaking with a politician, ask your colleagues, who at the National Foreign Policy Council, two or three months ago, argued that the country, despite all the crisis it is going through, must be equipped. You do not speak with a politician who mocks or pricks his words or hides them. This is my deepest political belief and what the Democratic Alliance thinks. The country has many problems. She can't be left to her luck. However, as my colleague said very well, priorities are not a task of counter-population. He doesn't have the technical competence to support them. He's listening to the government and judging. And he told you: "We don't say no. Tell us: How much does this upgrade do?’ You said: 'I have no number.' However, if you say to me, Mr Theocharopoulos, that you told him about 1,7 billion, 'there are no amounts, we do not accept them', you said.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u78	I said 1,100,000.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u79	I have the Minutes here. He is present and my colleague is a parliamentary representative, he will tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u80	He said 1,7-2 we can't do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u81	It can't be done, he said! It's in the Minutes. We're not fooling around here. This is the Plenary Session of the Greek Parliament. On 5 October, in response to a written question for parliamentary scrutiny, you determine the expenditure to be EUR 1.5 billion to EUR 2 billion. In the United States, the President of the United States, in the presence of the Greek Prime Minister, determines it at 2.4 billion. you, with tweets about expenditure of EUR 1,1 billion, and the rest are compensatory, obviously not knowing that the compensation law was abolished by incorporating a directive in 2011 - we told this committee, I do not have time - and the exceptions provided for by the end of 2014 for current programmes. We say to Mr Vitsa - you missed - 'How do you deal with this?' Of course, you're lying everywhere. But we ask Mr. Vitsa: technically, how do you deal with it? In reply to Mr Philly, it says: 'There is no need for an amendment, after all we have tabled an amendment extending the time of exceptions'. We are looking for the amendment, but we cannot find it anywhere. However, I say to him and repeat to him here that even if there was an amendment - which I do not see, but which may exist, you have a better legal picture than I do not have the archives of the Ministry of National Defence - is this amendment compatible with the 2011 Act - we had voted for this law - which prohibits compensatory payments for reasons of protection of healthy competition? Are you sure? You're not sure. So we have here, as far as the equipment is concerned, lies, ambiguities, wranglings, determination of the amounts due by the contractor of Greece, and in general an awkward situation, which is confusing you internally, is confusing you at all levels and making a decent picture for you and for the country. We're going to something else. I didn't know the thing when I heard you. Because, alongside my other responsibilities, I am also in charge of defending the Democratic Alliance, I am looking for it and I see the workers of the Scaramaga shipyards. I was listening to you talking about a Safa. I was listening to this guy, Savva at first. You threatened, said, you were, you were, you were, you were, you were, you were, you were, you were, you were, you were, you were, you were, you were, you were, you were, you were, you were, you were, you were, you were talking too bad about Mr. Venizelos. It's been three years. And recently, I hear you celebrating that you have won a referral trial to which you have lost against a state! We, in a very serious debate, have caused two meetings of the Committee on Defence and we are now asking here for a third of the fate of the shipyards. If the shipyards are closed and there will be no room for our own intervention for our own Armed Forces, there will be no more than 850 workers there. And you go on November 12 with public jurisdiction, asking for special management of the shipyards, which means that if in 12 months you haven't found an investor, the shipyards are closing. And for three years, instead of blaming and swearing, you have told us nothing about the foolish attitude of previous governments by you - I am not ashamed to say that - to think that Scaramaga shipyards cannot repair or build orders from foreign armed forces. She didn't hurt you. This misunderstanding, which does not arise from anywhere, you left her there sitting. And you come here at the end - because you contradict yourself - to look at a problem, to say things, and to celebrate unfoundedly while you lost some 210 million as compensation. You lost because the investor owes nothing to the Greek State. You are getting bored with the Scaramaga shipyard so much that no investor will take care of it. And in your own hands, if you are government - as you wish - or in the hands of a next government will "stop" the closure. We offer, personally, consultation on this matter. Mr. Vitsa, you know that well. And you and Mr Pittsorlas since February deny our request to put things down to the Defence Committee in a very specific way. Now we don't have much room for it. Big talk is over by anyone who said it. We are therefore calling on you to do this in the Committee on Defence in the next few days. On 12 November, it is the appeal that you have made to the public authorities. Now let's go to the beginning of the draft law. I made several reports of shortcomings in the draft law on the introduction of my speech. Now we're going to the main thing. From Article 10 to Article 23 are the articles of the bill regulating the creation of a uniform for the Armed Forces of an Economic Inspection Body. When you hear the title and you're a friend of structural changes - I belong to them - you say: that's nice. It gathers forces and extends them to the Armed Forces. Why should we have distinct control and inspection procedures in the three bodies? We have said to the committee that we are listening to it positively, but we are looking into problems, resulting from the reading of Articles 10 to 23, in particular Article 11, in particular Articles 14 and 15, but also of all others. And Article 13 is important and Article 16 is important. Ladies and gentlemen, I will tell you what has happened here. We are suppressing to deny the agreement and we are voting against it at first, precisely because we disagree with these provisions. Minister, in your vague complaint, some people who know the job rushed to tell you that these arrangements solve your hands. I don't doubt you want to do any checks. For no minister, I wouldn't question it, because he wants to have his head quietly, I appreciate my data. But you are confusing the inspection and control, Article 11, and you are confusing these two functions with the exploratory, investigative, interrogative work that some government departments can do, possibly repressive responsibilities. You're confusing all this. They told you that your hands solved such a service, which is subject to you and you believed them, but I hear that your ministry's legal services did not ask them and what is the result, ladies and gentlemen? I have here the opinion of the Directorate for Scientific Studies of the Parliament. Please very much, open it to see that the Ministry has not cooperated. It does not say a word about Articles 10 to 23, which is the body of the draft law. That's a word for it! It goes from the first article, from the second, from the third to the thirtyth. Word! Why all the provisions in Articles 10 to 23 - all - find inaccurate, inappropriate writing and prove that their painting does not know about it. They told you that this solves your hands, you liked this, you might like the integration of procedures and you signed your signature. This thing must be abolished if it is voted on. Our proposal is to withdraw and retire from worthy hands of Armed Forces. It's a clipboard, and it's no accidental matter. Many provisions of ministerial interventions are hand-written. I don't care about that nor can I claim that all of my people were well-formed. Oh, no. Many times, we operate under pressure. But here, where Parliament has this draft in its hands for a month and a half, you have had the opportunity to see it. You didn't do anything. You're messing with things that can't be uniformly assembled and you're building the first floor of the auditing, inspection procedures in a building, which has no foundation or ground floor. It's a floor, which is on the air! This must be abolished. It's a mistake, Minister. I would point this out, with all the intensity I have and ask you to withdraw the provisions of this draft law. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it has dealt with the committee very much - we have had unpleasant experiences - Article 27. I said it to the committee. I apologise to the colleagues who were there and who will hear me say this for the third time, I am not saying it, but I have to say that the person who talks to us and who is on the special issues. As far as police unions and security bodies are concerned, I was one of the few pioneer scientists, many years ago, we were saying, yes, that it could. Cops know that. And the police union, the security bodies, is the one who is today and helps, according to my assessment. I have expressed the same view, as a politician now, but with my scientific tools and the corresponding functionality in the field of the Armed Forces. But, as I have said in committee, I strongly support the rights of officers, officers and our soldiers, but in the spirit that the Armed Forces must govern. Ladies and gentlemen, Rule 27 takes part in the internal division of the trade union. It's insensitive. He takes a stand in favour of both and against those who are most. We told the committee - which you were absent - because you were not in Greece I think - that Mr Vitsas heard this - that the proposal, which was made to create a trade union, a federation that will elect its organs and express the people operating in the Armed Forces, covers us. We are not tolerated, ladies and gentlemen, the division in the Armed Forces' Corps. We do not tolerate this, which we have heard in the Committee on Defence from representatives of one side against politicians. We cannot tolerate the Minister from making a choice in favour of both sides. And we suggest, if you haven't brought it in with the legislative improvements and you haven't corrected your favour of sharing, withdraw Article 27.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u82	Legislative improvements have been made.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u83	How do we see it, Minister, if you haven't distributed it to us? That's why I said this morning, instead of reading it, share it, so that we can, by asking, take a position. Until we see what changes you have made, for us, the matter remains outstanding. Now, for the Corps of 1990 it is not a proposal from the government parties, which has been accepted by the opposition. It's a proposal from all parties. And I don't know if it's in the air right now, after two interventions made in the Chamber. We want this regulation to be made. That's right. And it doesn't matter to the members of this Chamber. It's sovereign of the National Representation to make his own decisions. In Article 30 on retroactive compensatory measures, we shall vote'represent' and we shall now put it in the debate on the principle of principle and because it is a matter of principle to accept compensatory programmes, which go back to old contracts, but also because there are legal issues in relation to compensatorys, as I mentioned at the beginning of my speech, which I conclude with the following: Ladies and gentlemen, this is where we speak in favour of one party and against the other party, what we believe. Others exaggerate, others do not exaggerate, others speak modestly, others do not speak modestly. One is given: Your actions to support your words. And it has been exported - 'FINANCIAL TIMES', 'EL PAIS' - the term 'kolotuba' throughout Europe, as a term that concerns you. The rest of Europe has identified the political inconsistency with the SYRIZA - ANEL Government and has identified this term with the Prime Minister of the country. Too bad for the country, but it's a reality. And in this draft law, we have such kinds of cubic issues, particularly with regard to the issues that have failed to bring about and regulate, even though the Minister and the ruling parties are also telling us, as far as an issue that concerns Greece is concerned, and you need to take a position today, in relation to the upgrading of the F-16. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u84	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition by the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, forty-five students and two teachers and two school attendants from the 4th Haillandri Municipal School. The House, guys, welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The reason is the special speaker of the Golden Dawn, Mr. Kouzilos, for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u85	Thank you very much, Mr President. ‘Adjustments on careers and development of executives and financial care and accounting of the Armed Forces, setting up a Joint Economic Inspectors' Body and other provisions’. Another bill from the Ministry of Defence, which we see does not in fact provide substantial solutions for the Armed Forces, for the officials of the Armed Forces. On the contrary, there are provisions that may confuse the entire operation of the Armed Forces. This should take place, not only in the Ministry of Defence, but also in the ministries of finance and labour. The daily life of the Armed Forces' officers is now crumbling. What is the position of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Labour on the daily life of military personnel, such as issues relating to pensions, retrospectives, widows' pensions and a new salary? The SYRIZA Government's Ministries of Finance, Labour and Defence - ANEL had promised all this and we do not see any of this happening. On the other hand, we see that you bring Article 27. From the previous Legislation of the Ministry of Defence we were against the Armed Forces union, and now we see the results: there is a division, the non-legal WTO with the - let us say - legal POMENS and there is a conflict and a division right now in the Armed Forces. We see that you are bringing Article 27 'Amendment to Article 30c of Law 1264/1982' and, in fact, the Ministry of Defence seeks to legalise the WTO and not to resolve the problem, while seeing the reactions which it had not recognised its statute, which is trying and in a court dispute at the moment. The question is: Why don't you let justice make decisions? Leave justice, calm the spirits. That is why, from the outset, we have asked you to withdraw Article 27, to see exactly what is going to happen in this matter. In the way you do, and in the way you do, and in the way you legislate about the WTO, what seems to be 'to help our own children'. Actually, that's what it looks like. Let's not forget what your position was once for the Armed Forces union was. Furthermore, the WTO - there is a loophole, which has not yet been clarified - will control all regional associations and, of course, those that remain regional associations. That is why we say that the WTO will, in fact, become a superpower, control all the Armed Forces, trade unionism in the Armed Forces, and in fact who is it? Mr. Tsukarakis, who is friendly to Mr. Kammenos. Since the first time, POMENS has called for the withdrawal of this article - you have not heard it - which POMENS has harmonized its statutes. Why hasn't the WTO done it? There was a prediction at the time that what would happen? Will the court be postponed? The court did take a postponement for November. Article 3 "Special Monastility Operators" is mainly for the trainers of the Chinook helicopters, because Chinook has received and received the following space. What's the matter?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u86	And for the training center...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u87	Good. For us, what is the problem in this particular article? What's going on? It seemed there was no design on this subject and there was a failure. From now on, how do we get new instructors? Because we have other types of helicopters. He's not a type of helicopter. In other words, proper planning and planning should be carried out so that we can see from now on what we are doing and there are no such failures. With regard to Chapter I “Training and Development of Armed Forces”, you are able to voluntary short stay in the ranks of the Armed Forces, who have established a pension right and wish to remain and offer their services to the Armed Forces. It is a good thing, but we should also look at the question of whether there is a portrait for the retired. There are retired people right now, who will certainly be interested in some ways to offer the Armed Forces and they will certainly need their experience. There are already those who will be prolonging. Let's see this little thing, too. As regards PSY, there were specific comments from the consultation. We had to get to the plenary day, to see and settle this matter. Why, though, were there two different suggestions? Did they change faces? What changed and there were two different suggestions from the staff? The way you had brought it to the beginning, you were practically not going to resolve this matter. In addition, the Commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work was approved by the Council. There were comments from the institutions and we have not yet seen any legislative improvements, so that we can tell you about Article 5. As far as Article 2 is concerned, it is a regulation aimed at restoring distortions. The Pan-Hellenic Association of Long-Term Volunteers, however, in essence - and we will present it in the Minutes - calls for two simple things, which are certainly related to the Ministry of Defence: it calls for the lifting of injustice by the additional detention of 2% on ELOS, which requires a simple regulation. The Ministry of Defence should cooperate with the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Finance. That is why at first we said it was the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Labour. All NPVs were classified as FPVs, FPVs, etc. and then evolved as an IMD. From ranking to retirement is retained by their salary of 4%. They just ask for two things. There's nothing else IDUs are asking for. And let's not forget that the NGOs are the army's backbone right now. The NFCs are the main body of the army. With Part IV, Article 26, on the expenditure, on the supply of medicated health material, we see what the Memorandum has brought. It's a failed health system, which owes a lot of money to the Ministry of Defence. The military hospitals cannot function and the Ministry of Defence is now forced as an emergency solution - if we do not make a mistake, it is an emergency need at the moment - to be able to get some money from his budget to give it to the military hospitals so that they can work. That's the memorial you signed. That is your policy. Regarding Chapter III "Common Body of Financial Inspectors - Establishment of an Internal Affairs Service of the Ministry of Defence", we are pleased about one thing. We have asked a lot of questions, and we have not answered this chapter in committee, for one single reason: There is in our political programme - and we are glad that you have copyed it - since 2012. You have copied it in his first two articles. Since 2012, it has been in our program. The interest in this chapter is why it has not been done so far and why New Democracy and the PASOK are now coming to vote on it. He said he would vote for it. We need answers to that. We have been saying this since 2012. You come in now and you get it copying. A simple copy you've made on the Internet. This is the basic philosophy of Chapter III. The New Democracy and the PASOK are coming and we are told that they will vote in favour of it. Has something changed now? It's very interesting to see who you covered before and what happened to this chapter. Article 30 ‘Application of a draft defence contract’. The draft contract for the compensatory benefits of the company ‘RAYTHEON’ is hereby approved with the Ministry of Defence's Directorate-General for Defence Equipment and Investment. Compensatory, one more time. As you said, Minister, and Mr. Vitsats many times, the compensatory amounts are black money. But now I must also make a point to you, because you have made a statement after America. You said that in the contract to upgrade F-16 out of 2.4 billion an amount would be upgrading and the other amount would be commissions, assistance and compensatorys. That is what you said in your statement. I don't know how you said it at the time, but you said there would be no compensatory payments.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u88	What's EAB?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u89	What's EAB?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u90	Compensation for the use of the Hellenic Defence Industry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u91	Wait a minute. Can we talk about EAB? LAPD's going to get 30% right now. According to the communication, 30% will participate the Greek public, but also private. The part EAB's gonna get is the cables, actually. For the cables that ODA will receive, there is no timeframe, if it can handle the project, how many aircraft will be upgraded, what will the cost be. Can EAB handle it? Because Mr. Vitsats, what he always said and there was a conflict, is that the defence industry has collapsed, that there were a lot of failures right now. You come and tell us we're going to take the F-16 to the EAA and we're going to have work to do. But Trump said: 'Thank you very much, because you gave us a job.' That's what Trump said. The end of the P-13 Horizon will be 2023. Will EAB be able to serve two big projects right now? Even a fate and thirty F-16 will be able to support it? You spoke of 1,1 billion for upgrading the F-16.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u92	The roof.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u93	The maximum. We asked a question on June 23rd. We got an answer on October 5th. Then you went to America. The document has been sent to us. He says they won't be sold F-16, because they'll be modernized. The estimated expenditure is 1.5-2 billion. We see that when Trump went and made the announcement, everyone was saying what happened. At that time, did Trump get the announcement? From 7 February everyone knew what was going to happen in America and what had been agreed. The whole visit to America was agreed. Everything was done beforehand. There were many journalists coming out and they said we'd get F-35. According to your answer, under protocol number 7508, F -35 we will not get before 2020, because the American industry cannot support it, because it has its own orders. So now, we can't say it was a F-16 gift. What reports are there from the OHIM right now? Could we have another program? So, could we see for Sukhoi too? Why didn't we look in other ways to see if we can get the latest-generation, latest-tech aircraft? Because, let us not forget, the Turks after the last programs they have announced will be a step forward. I'm closing up with a very serious incident, with the Evans attack. Here, now, we want a commitment from you too, Minister, and from Mr Toska, because he said that we 'we have taken on cameras, we have seen and there will be developments in the matter'. If you do not cover and cover your own children, there are persons and there should be arrests. I conclude, Mr President, by the fact that from the 'branches of the peoples of America', 'outside the bases' and so on, and so on, SYRIZA - and we all see that nothing has complied with all of this - we are currently seeing another very big game, which is played in northern Greece: we are actually doing Alexandroupolis a naval base, where there will be LPG platforms, where there is agreement with Bulgaria on a transit centre. We see geopolitical upgrading of northern Greece in general. In fact, it turns into an informal naval headquarters. You decided after your visit to America that you now belong to the axis of America. You have decided that you do not want anything and you are going against the geopolitical shift, to what you have been electorally insisting. If this isn't a cybiosis in all that you were talking about, then what is it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, too. The reason is now the special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Canelles, for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, days are now coming and coming, as it is at the level of the 'killers of the peoples of America', it is difficult to success in the Step with what has been heard by the previous speakers. I think it obliges us to enlist Varnalis and I will enlist him, days that he is now, because he says about '40' Albania's war was anti-fascist and forehead, it was a war of freedom and democracy against totalitarian plague. That's the only way to explain why the people fought with such passion. If he were to fight for who's fascist would have his master, he wouldn't have fought like that." Wisely the Varnalis and very close to the people. And he adds below, through the people he goes out: "The people did not just say "OH" by the mouth and by the house and by the safe. He said it with the rifle in his hand, in the mountains and in the snow and said it, moving and defeating alone, helpless and unproven. Years the dictator's eye was shouting at us from the duvets of Athens: "Sleep in peace, I am awake." And yet he was sleeping while the people were awake, and so he found the night watcher in his other colleague's sleep. But why wasn't the people in bed? He was awake, for his chains did not let him sleep." That's what Varlanus says, and he's absolutely right. The dictators do not admit that the greatest power in history is the passion of freedom and then it was surprised by colleagues - and here and outside - by the heroism of our people. That's because it can be useful these hours and these days. Why are we talking with permanent magnificence, when we are dealing with issues that have arisen with the philosophy of 'a small group today, a small group tomorrow, to correct a mistake here, a mistake at the level of the spiritual potential of the Armed Forces', which is also perpetuated by the SYRIZA Government - ANEL what has happened for decades, when there has been the intersection of the two parties in power, the perception that you control things more easily and qualifies them for your own interests in the exercise of a power, and the obligation of the Armed Forces to serve purposes, which are very often - clearly - not necessarily patriotic, as it is not patriotic to be invoking the money and invoking the finances, only when it comes to the people, but the big capital and multinational companies that make arms trips from Greece. That is how it manages to create, when privileged temporary, when privileged on the other hand provisionally and to have such a procedure that does not avoid it today either. For example, the legislative improvements you have brought to even for Article 4, even for Article 27, these few things you have brought to do, are normal ones again. You see we're not poorly qualified when you solve real problems. You will find eight unequivocally "OR" on your thirty articles. Because there can't be someone back there, can't be hypocrisy. So you come and bring in a bill, which you present as amazingly normal, that it arranges sinful contracts of the past. The basic fundamental sin does not burden it, especially on the issue of compensatory benefits. You cannot have responsibilities today either permanently presenting an extremely patriotic choice, at any price and cost, when NATO and our participation in it is what determines every proposal, every reform, every exit, every rock in the neck of the Greek people. Bad lies, Minister, I will not sit now and speak to you in particular, especially folklore, about the level of F-16. However, the Greek people may understand that the Aegean is a naval business site. Since it is a naval business site, national borders in the Aegean are not actually recognised. It's a single operational space. We cannot make fun of this, nor can we lie to the people to sleep. In this fundamental choice, it is our choice that also lets Turkey unravel, because it is an ally in NATO, in the same business space. We can't sleep on the people. We cannot go back to where Varnalis points out that, when he had to defend the country, he was a people awakened, who went out and did it. It is essential that this pro-Natural policy should be exercised in all foreign monopolies. Domestics? But one of the JRC's attitude, from the very beginning of its existence until now, on the issue of armaments for the Armed Forces, is the urgent need for a truly strengthened Greek defence industry, essential. Intelligent potential exists, know-how exists, patriotism is a given one. However, once again in the shipyards people will gather to seek to survive. In our war industry, what's happening is happening. And we come here with an article and say "what has left us out of expensive things, which are now decommissioned, to find a way to sell it to the market". What the world has to understand is that there are some bills coming and someone will take you here and tell you "Why do you react here, why do you react there?" Because the substance doesn't appear underneath. It is also covered at one point by the bad news, the "thank you" for the 2% that the country contributes to NATO. But can we say - or ignore it - to the Greek people that this 2% of the country's contribution to NATO is 3.8 billion? That's like the sale they do. They put you in 99, so you don't get 100. We say for 2% and he hears it and he says 'a little'. Is it 3.8 billion, when for the rest of the people, you talk about evaluations, memorandums - first, second, third, fourth - twenty - eight cuts - which are not exactly cuts, but are cuts - allowances, which are much smaller than 3.8 for which they die? This is the key option in NATO. It's costing, it's costing. In the front of the Natali interests, it is costly. 2% is 3.8 billion. Let's go to the bill now. You come and bring something, which looks beneficial, that retired military officers, in Article 1, be left for five more years, without special privileges, because of the five-year period. And it sounds really nice. Why would you do that, young people are most of them, why retire, why should they go to retire? We're not telling the truth. We have told you, so we say 'no' in Article 1. Do you think we're saying no for a particular reason? We say 'no' because it hides the terrible hypocrisy with the pensions that the Armed Forces officers have been forced to take. You even throw them morally. That's the deepest immoral of the thing, not the way it's gonna happen. No, why are they going to tell you, "I've smashed?" Oh, no. You let them decide: "Will I live with crumbs or sit for five years to have two pennies in the pocket?" Is that proud now? That's nice, that's normal? This honors the Armed Forces, being impoverished pensionable, not being able to go out to see their phantoms, who have not seen them because of their nature of work, not being able to live as people, like the rest of the Greek people, by pensioning after this hard work of thirty-five years, possibly. And we are telling you 'no', because in this matter, even the trade unionists, who have heard them, have had differences. Let's go to Article 3, to the power of special permanent operators. Here we said 'no' and insist, because it is a photographic provision, since it concerns some people who have been demobilised up to three years before the beginning of Law 4407/16, thus losing the opportunity for a longer stay at the Office. We tell you 'no', because we have said no to Article 1, which says that it is another reason why you do it, to stay five years longer. And on this basis, you come below with a photographic device, make it easier for others, who were excluded from things, to go to sit five years longer. I come to Article 4. Here in Article 4, you have brought an amendment. We told you 'the present'. I shall look into the final expression, to see and study it by the end of the sitting - after all, we said that we would discuss the amendments at the end in a second reading - on this issue. There is no basic objection to correcting injustice in relation to 1990, but I would like to say that when you are actually doing exactly the same. You know what it is to hear the Minister say to you today: 'Baby, the staff say no, I will do it for the '90s generation, but then judicial matters will arise'. In other words, you are talking about an army and officers, who, in the way we legislate here and set up teams, must even find trade unionism - that is how it happened - his interests in defending them as a team in the courts. You know he has sat down another Minister, and another Prime Minister here at this Step, by another party, and he has said five hundred times if you have differences, go to the courts, like the courts follow a different policy from the rest of the policy, based on the legislation that exists here. We have arrived in Article 5. Look at how legislation is done. As it comes, it is a vertebral article, which has six paragraphs, Mr President. And this is compulsory with all these conditions: we want to say yes to you in the first paragraph and not to the rest. If, therefore, it was more structured and more well-built, it would not have taken the article 'no' into 'no' because it is the Rules of Procedure, or because we cannot vote differently here. For example, bring into this article by the proposed provision of paragraph 2 that priests, either Brigadiers or Colonels, depending on whether they have a higher education institution's degree, when it is considered that their careers are well-intentioned, are promoted for one month and then demobilised. Leave ideological and religious. I wish you had guaranteed, along with trade unionism and the laws for the Military Body of Priests - which I recall was built in the time of the junta, which was not famous for its anti-fascist ideological and anti-racist field of thought, not to say worse things here - and other things. You get us here to ask ourselves why the graduates of HS priests will be different to each other. And well all the others, but also the priests, as it goes, will reach the general's rank? So where do you think that makes sense? Imagine only the day of war, not just the time of peace. In the time of war, what will you have? Will you have a high degree of military priest? What are you gonna do with him in the war? Explain to me. Honestly, I'm telling you. Unless you start ruling with them and the orders of the angels. Thank God we have 2017! Even the logical church dogmatic reason has taken a little further than talking about the sex of angels. To have a sense of reality, even at the level that is sold very easily, to put pro-Christian or anti-Christian, philosophical or anti-Muslim. Adequate religion in the army, which should also apply to the rest, would include popular patriotic education. Patriarchate, because that is how you could have the homeland as a goal for the people, v. Varnalis, to seek their freedom and not to be easily involved in the report of these things. So we will necessarily say 'no' to you. None of this can be obtained by order. That's what someone has to understand at some point. The greatest defenders of freedom are those who do so, because they believe in freedom. Nor do you build boxes of freedom with naval needs to lead, with European needs to lead, at compulsory expenses from foreigners and their own interests in peacekeeping missions, in areas where the Greek people have nothing to gain, in addition to the remorse of their conscience, because it puts other peoples in a difficult position as a guardian of interests. There is nothing to gain from the Greek people but the point that we are in poor areas and bad times and we have nothing to eat and we have to tighten the belt, so that it can be referred here, to be referred back there, to refer further. With regard to Article 8, we had no objection to selling the waste material. Why should we object to selling the waste material? But, as we have said, the way is simplistic. These are things that have been spent on. There was to be a way for even the revenue from it to go straight where the military issues are concerned. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] Mr President, I ask for your tolerance. There is a great ideological issue here, for which we come to the group of this group of articles in a 'at present', so that we do not stop internal procedures and people do not know why they are on the question of controlling economics within the military. However, we have told you from the outset that it is completely disorientative ideologically. You've been into that American image fabulous thing: Corruption! Europeans play this game very much: "When we hit corruption, holy capitalism." He's got wings, he's wearing a halo. "If we harm the complexion, but we take care of it as we should, then capitalism is sanctified." You have stripped out, even with this in here, in exorcism of capitalism and in the core of the Armed Forces, precisely because it 'plays' the issue of armaments. So bring over here and make a joint College of Economic Inspectors and Home Affairs Department of the Ministry of National Defence, and believes that the perception will be improved. It is thrown'stick in the eyes'. You know what? This is exactly the same as the independent authorities within the army, with the procedures dictating the army. We should build a pillow for everyone to think that everything is very well, that it is calm and that we do not just manage capitalism, improve it, we do not just stay inside the European Union to get and give money to our big capital, but we will do better! Comrades, either way, when you've never made a jogging in your life on hive, doing it in Washington does not change the nature of jogging. It's just the same as the bill. It comes with very nice things ahead and actually makes an illusion that we will deal with all the issues in the army. It's the wrong orientation. It's a mistake to sacrifice. It's like going to free things the realities of the Armed Forces. And the reality of the Armed Forces, with the initial, basic policy of the third memorandum - no matter how you baptize it, the third memorandum is, but it is not the Memorandum - it has as a basic choice to be in the'strunga' of the wolves called the European Union, in the imperialist'strunga' called NATO and all that to forge as evil, but it is bad as an act, but very good as a result. We have heard it from the lipsticks. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. One could talk about such a bill in substance, and at the last point, identify the perception that you are approaching: the more American we become, the more French we become, the more similar we look to them, the better we will be. This has never removed the majority of workers' class mark. Because that's a marble that costs expensive, even as an image. It costs a lot more expensive when you turn it into a reality, with compensatory, with weapons we do not need, with a defense that is not designed for the country, with common borders with the adversaries in the most sensitive part of the country, which is the Aegean. And we're talking about all this under the cover of a wonderful military tourism. For too many times there we end up in military diplomacy and military tourism. We therefore say 'no' to you. For the articles, I shall reserve one - one vote. There will be no differentiation - possibly only in Article 4 - from our initial position, together with the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, Mrs. Canelley.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u97	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u98	What about, Mr. Loverdos?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u99	For the legislative improvements and for the amendment tabled.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u100	You have a minute, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u101	Thank you very much, Mr President, and I apologise to my next colleague. I had two loose ends in my speech, because we did not see the texts. The text for the 1990 order came. I don't know what the rest of the parties are saying, it seems right to me. I am therefore supplementing my speech on this subject with a categorization. It seems that the regulation solves the problem. I reserve to see it a little more thoroughly. For Rule 27, however, I made a very explicit reference and without names, on purpose, in my speech. Now I'm going to speak with the names of the trade unions. POMENS had proposed a new body, one, single, to leave the courts, to leave the tensions, to make an amendment to Article 27, to solve the problem, in favour of one that unites everyone. The amendment we have seen following my speech, Mr President, is indeed one, but one, in relation to the WTO, namely the other federation, in which the POMENS, which is the majority of the area, will also be consolidated. Well, that's a mock, Mr. President. It's the epitome of bias. In fact, it has other provisions. I do not know whether you will give us the floor on the amendments later to complete our speeches. However, if this is the case, it is worse than the first regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u102	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u103	On the second point - because we agreed on the first point - in point 6 of Article 27, which you are obviously referring to...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u104	In Article 1, (b), (b) and (b). Paragraph 1 is replaced by the following:
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u105	A Panhellenic Federation of Primary Associations named: Panhellenic Federation of Military Associations.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u106	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u107	That's what they're both called. Watch out, Mr. Loverdo, don't make the same mistake. Because at first I made the same mistake.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u108	No, I'm not mistaken.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u109	It's the same as in the first place.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u110	Their name is the same.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u111	It's with different initials.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u112	Yeah, but there's no initials here.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u113	Listen, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u114	I'd make another change.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u115	Listen, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u116	Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u117	Mr Minister, I have listened to you in the committee which has explained it. The abbreviation includes with a different record the exact same name -- is it not? - and differences appear.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u118	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u119	But when you follow the abbreviation of some, the performer understands that you are taking a stand in favour of one case. Change terminology. Put on something new.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u120	I'm just explaining again. There's nowhere abbreviation in all of Article 27. There's no way on purpose. Secondly, in Article 6 - go to Article 6 - because I will make a correction - it says that the primary military associations set up at regional level are made at the request of the members of the most representative in number of primary associations and of the number of members of the deceased associations. I mean, not only do they take part in how many associations they are, but also in what number they represent. There is no, that is to say, one who has twenty - twenty - twenty associations and another having ten associations of four hundred, that is to say, multiple numbers. So they must have both clues. And what it says is going to work at the entry into force of the present. Because, in fact, there's a criterion that says once it's published, they're stopping everything. And we just want there to be this semester if they can find it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u121	Mr President, I would like to ask a question and finally.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u122	But please, Mr Loverdo, let us move on.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u123	Last question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u124	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u125	Minister, you say on the last page that after the new paragraph 6, paragraph 7 is added as follows: Paragraph 14 of Article 30c of Law 1264/1982 is repealed. This regulation has enabled pending proceedings to be instituted. Do you abolish the proceedings by abolishing this measure, by interfering with the matter, or by otherwise your purpose?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u126	No, I'm not dismantling the trials. Paragraph shall be repealed by 1a. which states that only legal persons recommended and operated in accordance with this can represent the interests of the active military personnel. This is the text of this article.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u127	Where does he say that?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u128	They're the first lines of Article 27. In the last subparagraph of paragraph 3 of Article 30c of Law No 1264/1982, a new subparagraph is added as follows: ‘Only the legal persons recommended and operating, in accordance with this paragraph, may represent the interests of the active soldiers’. In other words, I will say this in a way that lawyers understand - those who, after six months, have modified their statutes or created statutes, whether as primary associations or as secondary associations, are legitimate in their process. So - how should I say it? - It's necessarily going to abolish the previous article.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u129	We're moving on to the process. The reason for this is the special speaker of ANE, Mr Katsikis, for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u130	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today following on from the meeting and discussion of this draft law on committees, political controversy holds well. Of course, if it were only on the subject we are dealing with today in this bill, I would say that it is perfectly justified. But it has escaped so much since then, and in plenary on issues that have nothing to do with the issue that we are discussing really does not only cause regret, but also gives them the right to answers to those colleagues who are attacking and bringing a topical issue back to time, which concerns the Armed Forces regarding the implementation of the decision of the Council of State on entrepreneurials which you, gentlemen of the Representation, have deprived them of, you have provoked them of the decision to appeal to the courts, to be entitled by those courts, and, unfortunately, you are the same ones that did not give them a single euro, since in December 2014, you were sure that you would lose the elections, you made a decision that would pay these people, would pay them a judicial decision in the course of 50%. And you are the same today, who say to us, renounce your responsibilities and blame them on us? That we, who are giving them this 50%, do badly, because we still haven't achieved something that you have caused them, give them the other 50% that you have deprived them of. And of course, it has even been heard in this Chamber that it is a political bravery, because the rapporteur of the New Democracy will vote for eleven of the thirty articles. In fact, my dear colleague, it is a political originality that you vote to show and show your political bravery and not because you believe that these eleven articles should be voted on. Ladies and gentlemen, coming to the essence of the bill, the meeting...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u131	Eleven are voted in favour of you who are voting against in full.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u132	What did you say, Mr. Prisoner?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u133	Please, Mr. Treasury, do not interrupt. Mr Katsiki, continue and please do not have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u134	Yes, Mr. Comrade. So you show political bravery compared to us. Mr President, the plenary session, for those of us in the committee responsible for drafting the draft legislation, is a shorter one in time, but more substantial ones in substance and procedure. We should in no time pass convincingly on everything that has been put into this House at long sittings of our committee. I'll try for the next year's economy to be as precise as possible. The draft law introduced is multifaceted and its provisions from extensive regulatory, I would say, scope. Its four thematic modules structured in isonumerical chapters reflect modern reality by satisfying chronological demands on the part of military personnel and on the part of society for control and transparency. Characteristic of the diligent drafting of its provisions is to a maximum extent affected by all the commentators in the consultation. The adoption of positions and original views by commentators from the political leadership of the Ministry of National Defence demonstrates the essential meaning, which she attaches to the consultation, creating a productive, dialectical framework for the completion of the draft law. The human-centered leadership's policy has shaped those conditions, which will ensure that military personnel are convinced of absolute integrity and the provision of state-sponsored care. In this context, arrangements shall be made to satisfy a consistent demand for a large portion of the soldiers to remain in the active service and beyond their well-qualified end of their career before the 58th year of their age is completed. This ensures that their experience in the enhanced operational requirements of the Armed Forces is used and ensures a smoother transmission of knowledge to the younger executives. The state, by accepting the moral recognition required in the institution of long-term volunteers, made it necessary to review and resolve the issue of their grading evolution in relation to their demilitarisation. So the arrangements under Article 4 are to counteract the delayed graduation of officers from the Higher Military Staff Schools. This provision reduces, in particular for this category of officers, by one year, the time required to promote them to the extent of the captain, ensuring the moral and administrative restoration of the smooth development between the same importers and under the same arrangements for the import of officers. With a view to financially strengthening its budget, the Ministry of National Defence proceeds to manage its movable property. In particular, materials which are not used for the Armed Forces, either because they are surplus or because they do not serve their operational needs, or because they are no longer operational and their repair is considered unfavourable, can be made available to third parties in exchange. Revenue from the disposal of these materials will constitute revenue from the State budget with a level playing field of revenue. I would draw your attention, Mr Prussakis, because you said from this Step something opposite to what I am saying. They are therefore revenues of the State budget with a level playing field in this revenue in the budget of the Ministry of National Defence. So that's where they go. In fact, it will be carried out in favour of the General Staff to which the material used belongs. And the bill continues, ladies and gentlemen, by introducing the top division into the procedures for ensuring the transparency of financial management and the contracts of the Armed Forces throughout the territory, all the services of the Ministry of National Defence and all the bodies supervised by it. The common sense of law is reflected in the multitude of positive comments received by this provision during the consultation. There is the recommendation, therefore, of an independent joint Chamber of Economic Inspectors, which will be directly subject to the Minister of National Defence, as I have said, and I repeat in plenary, and the other bodies dealing with this issue, as the Economic Crime Corps, called the Ministry of Finance, is responsible for the Minister of Economic Affairs, as the Minister of Economic Affairs and Civil Protection, is responsible for. Thus, without service and bureaucratic labyrinths, with increased service capabilities, it ensures the protection of the financial interests of the Ministry of National Defence by preventing or investigating economic crimes and corruption in the field of the Ministry and the Armed Forces in general. His staff with officers of increased and qualified formal qualifications demonstrates the will of the Ministry of National Defence's political leadership to give this service a particularly central role. I would also like to repeat, Mr Minister, the point I made and the debate in committee. The special weight of this service, its key role and its effectiveness will be significantly strengthened if the officers who will serve it take up the status of an interrogator. This status will give them the legislative power to carry out specific investigations, following, of course, public prosecutors. I would point out that all those who serve in Economic Crime Corps in the whole range of public administration are characterised by interrogation officials. One of the articles of great interest at the meetings of the committee and the hearing of the bodies is Article 27. This article, in my opinion, improves legislative issues that have arisen in this respect from the application of the newly adopted Law 4407/2016. It defines and redefines issues whose resolution harmonises the existing framework. To this end, it addresses issues relating to the geographical distribution of active military associations, as it has proved that the large spatial range of regions, especially islands, where primary regional associations have been established, has made it difficult to convene the administrative councils, since the participants may serve miles away. It lays down the negative conditions if they are met on the face of a military, it cannot be registered as a member of the associations. It regulates the question of the appointment of the representative of the Panhellenic Federation of Military Unions, the WTO, to the transfer councils as an observer. Such observers for flexicurity and speed purposes shall be designated directly by the Governing Council of the above-mentioned federation. Article 30 provides that the final and irrevocable liquidation of the Convention, which relates to the obligation to obtain compensatory benefits from the PATRIOT missile supplier. Since the supplying company did not fulfil, as we know, its obligation to set up a defence industry in Patras, the Ministry of National Defence in May 2015 withdrew the credits and referred the case to the prosecutor for investigation of any criminal liability. Since the initial contract, that compensatory benefit in 1999, has been tragically long. The two parties reached an agreement to amend it, concerning its essential content, for the benefit of the Ministry of National Defence at all times and without affecting the results of the investigation of the criminal liability which may result from the evidence sent to the Prosecutor. Since this convention contains conditions which deviate from the law on administrative contracts, it is necessary to be included - and I think this will be done tonight, at the end of the vote - the validity of the law. That's what we're asking. That is why it is being discussed here today. The SYRIZA - ANEL government has been doing everything it has had to do for years, ladies and gentlemen, in opposition. I remind you of the frontier allowance, I remind the MOMKA, for which you have so mocked us. MOMKA's work speaks for itself. The main thing is that the Greek people know and recognize their real offer. To conclude, I would like to make a brief reference to the two amendments I have tabled to include as additions to today's draft law. In particular, the first under General Number 1311 and Specific number 77 relates to a regulation on delimitation of the scope of Article 47 of Law 4387/2016 and in line with the statutes of the Equity Funds, in particular, since the concepts ‘shareholders’ and ‘income elements of the Funds’ as referred to in the above article do not comply with the provisions of the Equity Funds. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, please for your tolerance. It is therefore appropriate to clearly define their content in accordance with the provisions of the Funds in order not to inactivate the funds provided for by the Equity Funds and by extension of their specific accounts and financial support sectors, because they will not clearly fall within one of the two concepts. In accordance with the statutory legislation of the Equity Funds, benefits are financed from the allocation of their resources, as detailed in the relevant provisions. I should like to make it clear here that these provisions do not provide for any State aid from the State budget, which is, in any event, excluded from Article 47 of Law No4387/16. In particular, in the provisions governing the establishment and operation of the Shareholder Funds, the concept of the shareholders’ deposits is not clearly defined, in proportion to which they are also granted, despite the concept of booking on remuneration and monthly share payments, while in addition there are reservations, contributions from the dividends in favour of the funds concerned, such as a dividend to grant the family or professional self-employed aid to their children. It is therefore appropriate to clarify that the shareholders’ deposits are to be understood as bookings and contributions paid in favour of the Equity Funds, both of the shareholders and of the shareholders. Similarly, the need is clearly defined as the concept of assets, as it does not coincide with that of resources or with that of the assets, as these concepts are defined in the statutory provisions of the respective share fund. In view of the fact that the general concept of the assets of the funds includes, on a case-by-case basis, funds which are prohibited from being distributed or made available for the fulfilment of the fund's obligations, such as the regular reserve of the Equity Fund and the Equity Fund or the general capital of the Equity Army, it is necessary to ensure the validity of the relevant provisions and to clearly identify the sources of financing of the benefits paid. With the second - and I conclude - an amendment with a general number of 1312 and a special 78, which I tabled, it is proposed to amend Article 74 of Law 4485/17 and to introduce into the quota of the candidates for the pan-Hellenic examinations which declared military schools, security colleges and academies of commercial seafarers, masters and engineers. The proposed regulation therefore corrects the omission in the bill, as the reasons given to the quota for seismic regions also apply to the candidates of the above schools. They must therefore join the quota measure as well. Under the proposed arrangement, there is a level playing field for all the candidates in the affected areas, and there are no inequalities in relation to the quota measure. In conclusion, I would like to say that the Independent Greeks are voting for this draft law, because it resolves requests from a large part of the Armed Forces community, knowing that strengthening the efficiency of executives is the top multiplier of our country's strength on the international precinct. The bill makes use of conclusions that emerged from a wide and fertile dialogue that preceded and established decisive reforms to address the existing problems, establishing transparency principles and control practices in the Ministry of Defence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u135	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u136	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u137	In a minute, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, forty-two students and students and two educational sessions from the 5th Glyfada General School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u138	Mr President, on the amendments tabled by Mr Katsikis, I would like to say that I have now also consulted the Minister, Mr Toska, on adding schools to the list of importers of the Lesbos Prefecture. The amendment is accepted. She's fair. We have not reached agreement with Mr Kurubli, but I do not think he will be opposed. As far as the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Citizen Protection are concerned, we also take responsibility for the Ministry of Commerce - it will be accepted. On the question of equity funds, it is indeed an important amendment. It's our side. It's accepted. We will only expect approval on the part of Mrs Ahtsoglou, the Minister of Labour, because her own agreement is also required. Now the Deputy Minister is speaking with her so that we can accept this amendment as well. Let me refer to the other amendments. Mr. Saridis is right. It is an amendment to intervene in the 2% additional contribution paid by long-term volunteers. You're right, Mr. Saridis. But I can't pass it right now if I don't have a report from the State Accountancy Office. But I am committed here, before the House, to having asked for it. We have already asked for a cost analysis. If we have it today - I do not believe that we will have such a rapid response - it will be accepted, or I promise it will pass into the next bill. We are looking at Mr Balomenakis' amendment to restore relative victims in peacetime, although most of these procedures have already been legislated. As far as the ministerial amendments are concerned, we accept the amendment with a general number of 1306 and a special number 72, signed by Mr Papapas and I. The Ministerial Amendment No 1307 and a special number 73 on the establishment of the staff member's posts and a staff member shall be accepted. Amendment No 1308 and Amendment No 74 by Mr Tsakalotou, Mr Juliarakis and Mr Vitsa on postponing military service in the Armed Forces of the troops who hold a doctoral diploma and who are involved in scientific investigations at national level is accepted. With regard to Amendment No 1309 and Mr Skourletis's special 75, Mr Tsakalotou and Mrs Gerovasilis, Mr Kourublis, Mr Toska and Mr Juliarakis, this is not about the Ministry of National Defence. Mr. Toscas will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u139	Thank you, too. We are moving on with Mr Saridis, a special speaker of the Centroon Association. Mr. Saridis, you have the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u140	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there are no microparticipatory conflicts on the issues of national defence. I believe that you are all aware of this from the total presence of the Centro Association in the committee responsible. That is the most important reason why I choose not to list one - one of the irresponsible, irrelevant and dangerous statements made by some of our colleagues, MPs, and Co-Population and Responsibility in the media, thus proving that they do not think before they speak. I will, however, insist on what has been said in person from this step, as in the committee's Step, on the crucial points of the draft law under discussion. The only comment that the honourable majority rapporteur, Mr Karayannides, has had to make on Article 30, with which, for the first time in Parliament's history, we are legislating a compensatory benefit contract, was that this is a painful story. The truth is, we haven't understood this comment. How useful is this argument for citizens? What do you think, my dear colleague, that you have explained with these words? Have you shown the shame that Parliament is being forced to make the law of the State a compensatory programme? Did we explain to the citizens that the reason why you put it to the vote is essentially to legitimise the negotiation of a company that owes us money? So what do you say to those who think that Article 30 brought it in to be legally covered, no matter whether you open the appetite for other companies to ask for the exact same thing? Whether or not we agreed - and we agreed, I am not saying no - to come to plenary because we believe that we need a direct need to upgrade the Patriots, you who proposed that you should document it, so that we too should be persuaded to vote in favour of it. Instead of arguments, the only thing we have heard through your mouth, Mr Karayannides, was the phrase "this is a painful story".
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u141	I've spoken to three committees. Don't lie. I've analyzed it in committee. If you were absent from the committee, read the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u142	Please don't have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u143	Inadequate answer
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u144	You're inadequate!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u145	Mr Saridis, please do not refer personally, because Mr Karayannides is being forced and answered.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u146	You're right, Mr. President. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u147	You're not following the committees...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u148	No dialogue, Mr Karayannides.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u149	Mr Karayannides, whether I'm in the committees or not you don't have to say it here in plenary. So worse than this behaviour that you have shown on such a serious and burning subject, it is the other behavior that you have shown on the issue of the institutionalisation of trade unionism and the unfounded comments in Article 27. I want to understand what the argument has to do with how long the WTO was before last year's irresponsible amendment that imposed trade unionism on the Armed Forces? What did it have to do with ten, eight, seven, thirteen years? Does it change the fact that Article 27, as submitted to committees, was photographic? Is it changing? Oh, no. Does it change the fact that the initiative you showed in the summer of 2016 failed? Are you satisfied with the results of that amendment? Are you satisfied with the way you legislate? Does the government doubt that she is the only one responsible for this thing that has happened at the moment? I did not hear, in fact, that the way the government attempted to impose unionism on the army was wrong. Failed, he was sluggish and sprugged dissatisfaction with the strains of the Armed Forces, because that has done and that has succeeded. [[The President-in-Office of Parliament, Mr DIMITRIOS KAMMEOS]] Apologies, honestly, it's brave even from this step. I am sorry that we in the Centroon Association did not hear that. Who is, in fact, responsible for this unacceptable situation, for running in the courts officers of the Armed Forces and for exchanging insulting characterisations? The Centro Association had been against this amendment since the very first time. You didn't hear us. And to pretend, supposedly, the radicals, you allowed us to go this far, to talk about splitting and to try to see at the moment how we can patch the hole, which we have opened. You have not taken into account what two basic concepts mean for the army, the concept of hierarchy and the notion of discipline, because they are concepts that are in favour of effective operation in the military. As you go, you will convince us that you have absolutely no idea what these concepts mean. Although we have supported the Minister, Mr Vitsa,'s initiative, to reconcile the incompatibility, to justify the unjustified ones, to find a balance, however, in this legislative improvement that has just come to us - and the truth is that we have not understood it even if we may be placed in our second language for it - the solution is unsustainable and is not mutually acceptable. We have in Article 27 a federation with a new name resulting from founding members from the primary federations which are already in existence at the moment when we are talking with any number, two, three, four. But for both of us, do we? We don't have one. In our view, the Government - and we reserve it to put it again in our dentistry - should withdraw Article 27 and, as it has been put forward for some amendments, which will be seen in a short time in view of a new bill in the Ministry of National Defence, will have to withdraw it and bring it back to us to give us the time to see what we are going to do, how we will behave, what we understand from this legislative initiative. In any other case, it should also be withdrawn and entered into public consultation, and in this way restoring peace in the ranks of the Armed Forces. I now come to comment on the third chapter of the bill, Articles 10 to 23, which, as has rightly been pointed out by a colleague very experienced in Parliament, is the basic principle of this bill. The Ministry's attempt to put a class in economics and exclude any possible violations is also welcome and necessary. However, whether it is possible to ensure transparency and the effectiveness of the control mechanisms with these provisions is another issue. We are concerned, for example, that the Internal Affairs Service will only be subject to the Minister for Defence. We are in a country, and we must not forget that, in which people who have been convicted by the Greek courts and people who have been convicted of the Greeks. So it is not out of place and time for those who ask us to answer the basic question: Who will keep us from the guards? This question will remain unanswered, you know, and that is the responsibility of the incomplete, inadequate justification for such initiatives. I have not heard a single point from the majority rapporteur who argues that the way you legislate guarantees that our national interests are guaranteed. You have not been able to challenge anyone who doubts your choices about how to staff the Joint Economic Inspectors. Ladies and gentlemen, the Centro Association is committed to supporting the right and judging errors. This bill has good intentions but vague targeting. We had called for changes during the work of the committees in Articles 8 and 9, which provide for procedures for the sale of war materials which are used for useless, obsolete and surpluses. From what we have been able to read in legislative improvements, the oral tender procedure has been removed and it is on your behalf responsible and pleasant for us. With Articles 1, 2 and 4 you are trying to solve very important issues. And while you told us about your intentions, you did not tell us about the effectiveness of what you are proposing. With Article 1, you give the option of voluntary residence to the active service and off-the-spot posts to our officers. But you did not substantiate why you did this. Is the JRC's rapporteur right to conceal the miserable economic situation in which our officers have arrived? With Article 2, you have raised a lot of people. Is the granting of a retirement pension to long-term volunteers finally a problem solved, or are we going to set up a new appointment in the building of Hope? What does Article 4 solve, what rectify, when it comes against staff suggestions? What confidence in our knowledge of the hierarchy can we show when the leaders tell us otherwise? We are going to reposition ourselves because we want more time in our second language for that too. I would like to close my position on this amendment for which the Minister, who also covers us, to be honest, said that he would look into it sooner or later, will consider it. This is an amendment that concerns long-term volunteers who were registered with the Armed Forces up to 31-12-1992 and who have been charged since April 2013 and for the period which they served as volunteers for a five-year obligation, with a reservation of 2% for ELOS, ELOAN, that is to say an additional charge on the 4% contribution, which they also paid for all other categories of military. Such an unfair situation, which is not only for the specific category of military, is caused by uncertainties when drawing up Article 7 of the Law. As amended by Article 15(2) of the Lugano Law No 3257/2004, as amended by Article 15(2) of the Law. 2936/2001, in which no account was taken of the fact that long-term volunteers when serving as PSUs normally paid the same contributions as their equal level contributions of 4% in favour of special mutual fund accounts. It should be noted that this additional 2% burden on these long-term volunteers and on the time they served as an EPA is characterised by the funds as a social resource, while it was not observed in other categories of military. With the resolution, whenever it comes, - whether today or a month later, or two months later - legislative intervention is clearly needed. This legislative intervention we have tried to bring here today. We will insist on this legislative intervention in the coming period to remind the Minister of the commitments it has made in this regard. Ladies and gentlemen, the legislator must be able to understand the possible consequences that this design may have on a number of citizens who are wronged. The injustices often, while they can solve the moments born, are not solved. The micro-party interest lies above the public interest, above the law of the citizens. Whether others are responsible for the injustice in which a share of Greek citizens has arrived is of no value. We take value from our own actions and lose value from our own desertifications to the responsibility we hold. I would therefore ask the government to accept this amendment, to bring it to us. Whenever he brings us, the Centro Association will support it as if it were not its own initiative, as if it were an initiative of all the Greek people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u150	Thank you very much to my fellow Member for keeping time. I very much ask the rapporteur from Potami, Mr Spyridon Danellis, to speak for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u151	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to say a word about the EDPS and its condemnation of suffocation after the abolition of the ad. Obviously we, the Potami, are not in favour of the privileged treatment of individual professional sectors. But here, we have a real problem asking for a solution. It is a sector, the journalists' sector, which remains without an ancillary fund, with the first victim of new journalists. So it is necessary to deal with this particular case, and that is why we are asking ourselves: does the government have a plan to tackle this existing problem? Let's see it. We will now move on to the Defence. And let me start with some data, ladies and gentlemen. Data first: Turkish GDP for 2016 was $857,7 billion. For 2016 Greek GDP was 194.6 billion dollars. Data 2: The Turkish defence budget is $18 billion. The Greek defence budget is $6 billion. Data three: Fighting Airplanes Turkey seems to have two hundred fifty five different types and Greece 100 different types. Data four: Turkey with these economic characteristics decides to buy thirty F -35. The evidence seems to me to give them an image, an image of the seaweed. Greece is obviously finding it difficult to monitor the neighbor in a vibrant armament race and especially in today's conditions. And not only does it find it difficult, but it would also be unreasonable. These are not the priorities it has in today's reality and in today's culture, a country with the features and codes and values of our country, Greece. It's paranoia, it's irrational and irrational to try the other way around. What we must see, of course, is within this reality that we seem to be leaving this irrationalism? What do we have in front of us on a distant horizon? There are our advantages, and that is where we need to invest. We are a member of the oldest of the European Union. We are a country - the European Union's border, and indeed one of the hottest and troublesome neighbourhoods of Europe and the whole world. What do we miss? We lack an integrated and fully operational common European defence and security policy, a common European army, a common European doctrine, a European defence project. These objectives, of course, are visionary, but absent from our horizon, although the common European army, as at the Bratislava Summit last year, has begun to discuss. And it was finally a first conversation, after several years of attempts by several Member States, including, of course, we are always directly concerned. Of course, there is a multitude of very difficult procedural issues, such as, for example, with which resources it will be supported, how it will "walk" with NATO and what the relationship with NATO will be with and what the obligations will be there. Also, how to reduce costs, how to deal with various other aspects of it, reactions, to talk about the creation of a European army. We're way behind. It is time for us to be present, and for us, with our initiatives. So until then, what do we do? Are we still tracking this furious armour race and defensive upgrading of the neighbouring country? Can we be realistic if we do not face this as an existing problem and challenge, within this data we have to deal with, the upgrading of the Greek fleet, the F-16 in this regard, which is the issue to be discussed in recent days? Unfortunately, we need to find a way to balance out in this continuing horror balance, which we have been following for years. Of course, in this effort to get together and achieve the best, more rational and less laudable, for the Greek people and the Greek economy, a solution is not helpful to political hypocrisy. The issue of the upgrading of Greek aircraft had been discussed in two or three meetings of the Committee on Equipment and Contracts as a matter of principle that dealt with us. There we all know very well what his attitude was and what we have finally voted on this first approach. I would remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that the Potami, like the PSY, has voted'residents' and we have interpreted that this'residents' is not contrary to the substance of the matter, the necessity, that is, to investigate the best way and the most economically acceptable way of upgrading the F-16 fleet. We voted'residents' because we did not want to give the Government the 'white check' to deal with it at the appropriate level, without us having regard to our individual elements, but decisively, to the synagogue of conclusions and our final attitude, which were mainly concerned with the budget, that is to say, the cost of this upgrading and the time horizon within which our fleet would be allocated, but also the improvement of our fleet. So I think that on these issues we need to maintain a consensus and common approach on the part of the political parties, issues relating to defence. So let us be serious about these issues. Let's be honest. The government must not leave any skiing in the information and effort with the opposition parties, in order to address an issue that exists and is very serious, which has to do with our adequacy and balance that we must maintain in the Aegean Sea with our fleet and its ability to face possible challenges, which we see, unfortunately, is not in the sphere of affairs. I'm going to go through bill issues now. The bill we are discussing today is another draft corrective actions and arrangements on existing individual issues, smaller or larger. Starting with Article 1, which enables executives who wish to remain longer than thirty-five years of service and until thirty-eight years of age in the Armed Forces, out of organic positions, we consider it to be a positive arrangement. We have, moreover, repeatedly referred to the absolute irrationalism that we have been following for years to cost both human, experienced and useful to the Armed Forces, but also, of course, to financial resources. Because the system that is being followed today by retirement in the 50 or fifty-two years of people who are qualified, have experience, are useful for the army and even condemning these officials, especially in the current conditions of retirement, to be faced with a cost of life that they have not programmed and cannot cope with, is a further social issue that we need to take account of, Minister, the way in which all these executives on a critical and useful age are demobilised and fleeing the military. Let us see again how there can be a parallel year, how we can deal with issues of sufficient needs, by exploiting this potential and, of course, saving and resources that do not surpass. With regard to Article 4, it appears that the existing injustice is covered in the way in which it is treated with the legislative improvement you have brought. In the two articles in the second chapter, which deal with the exploitation of the Armed Forces' property, we have no real objection. As far as the third chapter is concerned, according to which a College of Financial Inspectors of Internal Auditors is recommended, subject directly to the Minister of National Defence, it is known that one of the basic pathogens of the Greek public administration is the inability to deal with corruption. In fact, according to a study by the Ministry of Justice, the overarming of structures with responsibility for corruption and maladministration has resulted in the duplication of responsibilities, the diffusion of responsibility for control, the difficult coordination of control work and, of course, the defective or even delayed return of responsibility. However, although the bodies mapped out by this Ministry exceed one hundred and include structures in most ministries, so far no structure of the Ministry of National Defence was mentioned. Therefore, the fact is that the defence sector has been characterised by poor control, at the same time, of course, which are high-risk structures for corruption and which, as a whole, has afflicted us, especially in recent years, by charging and decommissioning the political system in the eyes of society and citizens as a whole. It is therefore good that it is part of you in the body of regulation which guarantees the independence of financial inspectors, as we have asked you, Minister, in protecting the views they make and the findings of their investigations and ensuring that they are not perpetrated in the exercise of their powers. In Article 25, in particular, paragraph 4, which provides a honour for an admiral officer up to Major to Greek citizens who have been made redundant as soldiers, it is not of major importance. However, from curiosity, because our question has not been answered, we want to know where the'major' application referred to in the bill is. In Rule 27, the long-discussed ones who have in the past supported military union did not bear in mind the image we have experienced and during the debate on the bill in the committee, but also the attempt to resolve issues that should arise from consultation between the parties involved. Since we have opened the case of the military union, I think we all agree that we must do the right thing and in order to keep our credibility, demarcate the framework within which, in such a special and sensitive area as the military, the military trade unions must move. We are studying the legislative improvement, which you submitted to us shortly before and we have heard Mr Vitsa support, so that we can finally decide what our position will be. However, I think that if there is no consensus, if there is no persuasion, if we cannot do so now, it is much better that we provide this crucial and sensitive issue - let us withdraw Article 27 and bring it after full consultation and I am convinced between the directly concerned and us. I will now close by the fact that in the spirit of these arrangements of different issues in this bill, I would like to bring back a matter that we were concerned with when we discussed Law 4407 last year around. And I would remind you that at that time, with Article 1, we decided to dismantle the three war-fighting schools, STYA, SYP, SYP, which were unified by forming the SMY, the School of Permanently Administered Air Forces. There's one of their own constant request for rename. It doesn't cost, it doesn't raise matters, it's supported by everyone. I think it would be right if there were also the emphasis on the technical training of graduates. So their proposal for the rename of SMYA, the School of Permanent Air Forces at the School of Aviation Technicians or even at the School of National Aviation Technicians - the emphasis given to the technical training of graduates - we would have no reason to support it. So I put forward a memorandum on this issue, which could also be solved in this bill. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Spyridon Dannelis, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I close, coming back to an issue that we have repeatedly raised. We did have the commitment of Mr Vitsa to the committee that he would try to set up the committee we had decided that he would be set up in order to propose a solution to the issue to you and you and to us, in order to address the isology and regularity of the Air Force class with regard to the graduate engineers of the Icar School in equal treatment with their colleagues in the other weapons.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u152	We've already done it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u153	I don't know - because nothing has been mentioned - if we're working. I am tabling their own memorandum with a regulation that could also be adopted in this bill - if you have actually done the first treatment - in order to close this loose end. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Spyridon Dannelis, presents for the Minutes the above memorandum, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u154	Thank you very much for the special speaker from the river Mr. Dannelly. The Minister has the floor, Mr Toskas, to support his amendment by a general number of 1309 and a special number of 75, for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u155	Thank you, Mr President. It is known that the members of the Security Councils in the performance of their duties are at particular risk in many cases. And that is why the state in the event of death or inability due to injury at least 67% predicts the exceptional appointment of a member of their family to the Ministry of Interior in a vacant organic position or in any case recommended personal status. However, in particular, Law 4024/2011 abolishes the vacant organic positions of civil servants and Law 4305/2014 provided that the appointment - recruitment of personnel can only be made if there is a vacant organic position. So this assignment was essentially a gift of free will, it could not be accomplished. The state's moral obligation to these categories of citizens could not be fulfilled. So we come today with this amendment to fill the gap that exists and regulate the legislation so that there can also be a personal position where there are no cases in which these few cases - one I have carried out over the last eight years - can be dealt with exactly as I said in this state's moral obligation to the above categories of citizens who are at particular risk in many cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u156	Thank you very much, Minister. We are going to the speakers with Mrs Aulonitou's first visit from SYRIZA for seven minutes. Mrs Aylonite, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u157	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today's career regulation, etc., has some chapters. I would like to focus in particular on Chapter III, the 'Common Body of Economic Inspectors', the establishment of an Internal Affairs Service of the Ministry of National Defence. I think it is a joint statement within this Chamber, but also outside it, that for decades the area of defence procurement has been for some privileged area of corruption and interlocutory, often at the highest political level in every age. Since the invasion of the junta in 1974, when there was no armament for the recruited, because some had sold it out, to the supplies of sophisticated weapon systems more recently, where the purchase of the weapon system was not accompanied by the necessary ammunition, many faced the country's defence as a pretext only to enrich them against taxpayers. The fact that all these decades our country has extremely high defence expenditure due to a real threat to our region, not only did it not encourage some to put the national interest above their pockets, but instead made them unravel. The result is that today, in conditions of economic crisis and limited economic potential, we are being called upon to deal with two different problems, which have a common cause: firstly, we need to ensure the operational functionality of existing defence systems, and yet we need to ensure that there is no waste or theft of resources again on the grounds of the country's defence. To achieve the second objective, therefore, is the establishment of a Joint Economic Inspectorate, which is subject to the Chief of HNDGS and Home Affairs Department, which is directly subject to the Minister of National Defence. The committee has heard some objections and reservations about the establishment of these two services and I would like to reply briefly. It has been heard that these matters are the public prosecutor's responsibility, and therefore the services in question do not make any sense. However, the responsibility of the prosecutor, ladies and gentlemen, is to deal with illegality, since it is identified. Preventing illegality by introducing preventive checks to prevent it and establishing it, if any, to be referred to the Advocate-General, shall be the subject of the services in question. It has also been heard that, because corruption in this area starts with the political leadership in question, it makes no sense to control the existing ones. However, there is no way corruption at the top should not be seen below, while I also see that some people consider, frankly or hysterically, corruption to be untreated as an intrinsic feature of the system that will always exist. In this latter, ladies and gentlemen, we are totally opposed. If there is genuine political will, corruption is dealt with. In fact, this belief is our main political difference from the old political system. The draft law also includes the adoption of a compromise agreement to amend the contract of compensatory benefits of an earlier contract for the supply of defence material. On this occasion I would like to focus on the issue of compensatory benefits in general and their role in defence supplies. The compensatory benefits system was first introduced in our country in the 1970s, when the aircraft market Mirage was accompanied by a parallel French investment in another sector. We bought planes and the French made a significant investment in Greece, setting up a feed industry, a worthwhile industry that still operates in the private sector, having now gone to Greek property. In the coming years, the compensatory benefits were attempted to shift further towards the co-production of the purchased weapons systems by the Greek state defence industry, which reduces supply costs and brings some of the jobs in our country. The system, however, disturbed the misadversaries, as they were limited by opportunities for hatred. Thus, we have seen the domestic state defence industry shrinking, the compensatory benefits of being often inapplicable and, finally, not being realised. But we continue to be in a geopolitically dangerous region and the need for defence honesty will not disappear. We must therefore also emphasise the development of the Greek defence industry and the exploitation of every opportunity for co-production and the introduction of exemplary preparedness for the defence supplies. So today's bill, ladies and gentlemen, makes a decisive contribution to achieving these objectives, so I am voting in principle and pursuant to Rule. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u158	Thank you very much Mrs Alonitou. I would ask the Member of the New Democracy, Mr. Vassilis Kikilis, to take the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u159	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government is now well known to everyone that it has defied the Greeks' vote, lying, so much that words have been embarrassed. And it has been two and a half years since that, and the members of the Armed Forces are still waiting for Mr Tsipras and Mr Kammenos to tell them, first of all, what will happen with their retrospectives. The Antonis Samaras government had given 50% of the retrospectives. You are already ruling more than the previous government, which you have overthrown. So let's see what's really happened. Before that, let me read the statement from Mr. Panos Kammenos on 18 January 2015, on his visit to the Nikos border post in Florina, notice, one week before the parliamentary elections. He said: "I want to clearly send the message that the Independent Greeks will be required to participate in a government of national co-operation or cooperation or national unity is that the decision of the Council of State to restore the wages of the Armed Forces and the Security Bodies and the judiciary will be implemented immediately. It is a violation of the law, it is a violation of the Constitution and it is a disaster of justice itself, the pillar of democracy." Ladies and gentlemen, if this is not proof of the mockery of the Greek people and of the men and women of the Armed Forces, then what is it? The New Democracy - and I do not want to repeat what has already been said by the dear friend, the leader of Tassos Düsseldorf and the other speakers of the New Democracy - will support these provisions of the bill which correct injustices against military personnel, such as those of the 1990 order. We are responsible for opposition. We have proved this from the years of the crisis to the present day. You, Minister, refused to vote for even a law or an amendment during the New Democracy ruling period. However, I must say - and I imagine there will be some answers for that - that here we are seeing a bill full of 'photographic' provisions, which go on dangerous paths of opacity, which is precisely the opposite of what you are proclaiming in your rhetoric. This is a bill with a purely party benefit and not a service. For example, although it has been mentioned in Article 1 on non-organic officers, where you are actually saying that few posts will be covered without evaluation criteria. In Article 3 on pilots of special permanentity you reject military graduates. In Article 16, you are intentionally excluded from the post of Director of the Joint Body of Inspectors of all three branches. As for Article 27 on trade unionism, it is the epitome of the photographic provision and we are now calling on you, before the meeting is completed, to have the courage to get it back and at least give it the right - and it was discussed in this committee by all the rapporteurs of all the parties - to have an ad hoc committee immediately, quickly, to find a commonly accepted solution. Our remarks, Mr Minister, are not a sterile opposition product and I would like you to take them seriously, because we will come back to them. I'm going to article 10. There is a major political issue. It has nothing to do with an issue that is relevant to the Ministry, because the establishment of an Internal Affairs Service and the establishment of a Common Body of Financial Inspectors and Internal Auditors is something that, as a New Democracy, would agree with us, but in paragraph 2 of the article, we are unaware that the Internal Affairs Service is directly subject to the Minister of National Defence, so immediately - you are violating the principle of control - controlled, referring to the popular word "Yiannis is buying, Yiannis drinking". In other words, you leave the Minister himself out of control - take care not of Mr Panos Kammenos, but of the Minister in question - when it is known that the decisions of the ministers in this ministry are of great importance also in economic matters, such as the contracts of armaments, the contracts of compensation and the use of immovable property. I am speaking here and in order not to repeat myself, we are waiting, Mr Minister, and you and the Minister, Mr Kammenos, to come to the Commission and to analyse exactly what you have agreed on the F-16 upgrading contract, with which we agree. As far as the individual is concerned, we are expecting clear words from you, not words through social media, not Monday 'alpha', Tuesday the 'beet', Wednesday the 'fuck', Thursday the 'letter'. But I'm stopping here. Take note now: Why do you not serve transparency with what you bring? The Minister's ability to use such a service as the arm of party surveillance and control is extremely dangerous. Mr. Kammenos recently visited the United States. You have concluded agreements - I repeat that we are waiting for information - with a country that has as a model the operation of the Armed Forces and is a model. Let me inform you, then, that the Military Investigation Department of this country is responsible for the Chief of the Armed Forces. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Mr President, I have one more minute, but I would like your tolerance for a while. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope you all realize that what I am talking about is a major issue, because in the way in which the gentlemen are legislating, any Minister can complain to the prosecutor, get the complainant's phone secrets removed and have a personal mechanism to monitor his opponents' policies. This escapes a paradigm from the Department of National Defence. This is not an imaginary scenario, Minister, because you are doing so under Article 12(2), which states that the service is carrying out, in accordance with paragraphs 5 to 7 of Article 11, investigations and inspections following the mandate of the HRC and under the supervision of the prosecutor of the court of Athens. You say it yourself in your bill. Minister, as much as we see the establishment of an Internal Affairs Service as necessary, we will not support the covert creation of a new EUPD within the Armed Forces. The Internal Affairs Service must be in charge of the Chief of HNDGS. I urge you today to amend paragraph 2 as follows: "It is recommended to the Ministry of National Defence that a special Home Affairs Service be established directly under the authority of the Chief of HNDGS. I would like to say other things about Articles 8 and 9 concerning the use of the assets and materials of the Armed Forces, but I was covered by Mr. Publicos. I would, however, like to go a little further and say that the way you legislate in these articles, in fact, is not to channel the proceeds of using the budget of the Ministry of Finance but to the state budget. So you're depriving of revenues from the Armed Forces' equity funds. That's what this is about. So, as you did not protect the retired soldiers from Mr. Cantrugallo and what he brought as laws, so now you are not protecting and giving the share funds to the Treasury. And it's a well-known game: you want the Treasury can't go further. You have committed yourself to the retire ment associations that the revenue from recovery will continue to be contained in the funds of each sector. So please answer us very much, you, Mr. Undersecretary, since he is not Mr. Kammenos here, if you lied to the returnee associations. Or are you gonna tell us you wanted to, but couldn't you? Look, when a law on the Armed Forces comes, I think that it is the first priority for the country to be built, New Democracy always boldly and sincerely to vote and support these provisions that it considers to be in the public interest. However, there are important issues here which need to be discussed and which need to be clarified and others that you need to change. In any case, please very much, at least put aside the rhetoric about new ethos, styles of progressivity of the Left and new perception, when you have brought a "photography" bill, which involves a very great risk to what it has to do with the Home Affairs Service. And one thing for you, ladies and gentlemen, if you'll excuse me very much, but the distance from Washington to the Macronissos that I saw your secretary and Mr. Katrugalo with the posset picking up their punches and swore to the left, is not a fucking road, but a travesty road. So I beg you very much, when you go to the channels and the TVs and celebrate the success of America's journey, you will soon think about how much shame it is to go to the Macronissos and try to mock your remaining voters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u160	Thank you very much Mr. Kikilia. Please speak to the speaker from the Golden Dawn Mr.Ilia Panagiotairos to come to Step for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u161	Thank you, Mr President. I guess Mrs Aylonitou before in her very good speech she has presided over the forthcoming compensatory benefits that we will have from the convention that everything shows is going to be done for the F-16. He mentioned something about a feed factory in an older contract. They may now send us hay directly as the best compensatory benefit for this agreement. Ladies and gentlemen, in the past few days two sad incidents of Stalinist violence and propaganda took place in the capital. One was the Stalinist-type male attack of uncovered, unaccompanied, anarchist-planned reasoning for others in three Hopes, a soldier and some civilians. And there's nothing wrong at all! While, as we said before, it is the easiest thing to arrest the responsible and the guilty. Mr Toska's responsibilities are enormous, too great, and he should, as long as he comes from the Armed Forces as an officer, see with another eye the incident that happened with the three hopeful ones. We also wish that we do not in any way see something happening that is whispering, because none of those who govern it can take serious measures: Exiters or unauthorised Hopes and other schools can come out of their schools, not with the honored uniform of their school, but with their political clothes. There will be the supreme humiliation of the modern Greek state! The second sad incident of an indirect propaganda took place yesterday at an event of the Ministry of National Defence at the Officers' Club. Celebrating the liberation of Athens, with two weeks late - but it does not matter - the band of the HHR played rebel songs, these songs that were singing and the members of the "democratic army" - within many introductorys - in the period 1946-1949 in the gang-war, when the officials of the national army, the only army, the official, which Greece had always had. If you want to bring a new mentality to the Armed Forces and upgrade the so-called "democratic army", the National Resistance, probably because that's how you pass it, because you don't play a song of Zerva, or the Fisher who was slaughtered by the oil and other rebel forces of that time. The second misunderstanding you've been trying to artificially for years - but it's not coming to you - to throw the Greek people away - is that like the day after October 28th - which is not mentioned anywhere, nor at the event of the HHSH or elsewhere - "THE" said so, the great national governor who ruled Greece at the time, Ioannis Metaxas. No one else said so. With him was the entire Greek people. Four years in which Greece was governed by the Greek people had ensured that the Greek people, the Army and the Armed Forces at that time are well trained and equipped and have taken the necessary steps to deal successfully with the attack of Italy, a country with a multitude of dynamics and power but later, in April 1941, which was no longer alive - because he was "dead", within many introductorys, in a very strange way - the invasion of the powerful German forces. The Germans had arrived in Thessaloniki and the forts of Metaxas had survived even at that time. They've actually never been defeated. Not to mention the role of partners at that time, who considered the war to be an imperialist act against Italy. "It was nothing to do with the people of Greece" and other things like that at the time. You see then they were allies with the Germans until the invasion in 1941 to the mother Russia. Just so we know what we're talking about. The burning issue of the days that have been debated very much - and the Minister is here - is the upgrading of the F-16 due to the imminent reception of the first F-35, the fifth generation aircraft, by the "friend" and "allied" Turkey. It's funny, but that's what everyone says. It is certainly not possible to present them as an equivalent to that threat that will be a reality from time to time. They're F-16 aircraft at whatever level we upgrade them. That's what all the experts say. The only answer is in three areas: either we take the same aircraft or a similar aircraft. There are such things, but you see, for policy reasons, we are not talking about it at all. We also need to upgrade our air defence to such an extent that we can deal with it. Unfortunately, we're not doing any of this. For the huge sum of USD 2.4 billion, namely EUR 1.9 billion, as some people now say, because that will be the equivalent of some, it will not benefit our country either at strategic level, at geopolitical or even at work. Because the "absolute evil", as the Prime Minister said, "do not find this evil!", Donald Trump said at his meeting with the Greek Prime Minister on F-16 that they will benefit the American economy and American workers. This is the important part of the whole case. I mean, we won't benefit anywhere. If we really want to do something - because, whether we upgrade the aircraft to the Viper level or to another, F -35 will never be able to compete with them - it is to take out a sub-multiple line to get spare parts for the existing aircraft. It's much smaller than the amount. You know better than us, Minister, that about 30% of F-16 aircraft, like other aircraft, are on board. The rest is tied up and canvased or changed with each other. With a maximum of 100-150 million - I cannot tell you exactly, you know it better than me - we can take spare parts for all aircraft at the level they are at. And from there on, there are many solutions. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. You know that Sukhoi Su-35, which is an aircraft that can successfully deal with the F-35, which everyone says. But we don't know why his name isn't even mentioned, and he's cheaper than F-35. In other words, with a line we could take 20 F-35, we would take thirty or thirty-five Su-35 and, if necessary, in more favourable terms, because the Russians are prepared for co-production and for anything else, in order to get into the market. In short, make a very good negotiation - your negotiation was not good at all on this issue - with anyone in Greece's interest and no one else. In conclusion, I would like to say and remind you of something, which is also the position of the Golden Dawn, that the military union - and indeed, as you and the previous ones do - is solely destructive, destructive and never has anything positive to offer to the army. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u162	Thank you very much Mr. Panayotar. Independent MEP George - Dimitrios Karras has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u163	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law with its four chapters attempts to deal with career and development issues of the Armed Forces, which are desirable first of all, but we do not know the result of the proposed arrangements. It also attempts to deal with economic inspection and internal affairs issues in the army - there I heard different views - property issues and finally military trade union issues. That is where I was sad, because I heard the opinion of the executives, which means that there are major problems within the Armed Forces. My position and wish is to find elements of harmony and understanding, because otherwise if the tension that has been observed in the committee over the past few days is not for the good of either of them or for the good of the country, as in the difficult periods that we are going through - and in the independent of them - we need the unity of the Armed Forces and avoid any attempt to divide or create party relations. I think, therefore, that the political leadership of the Ministry of Defence should compose all the views which have been expressed in the committee and today in the House and come up with a regulation which will not leave those members of the Armed Forces interested in representing their colleagues to be divided and divided. So that's a one-way street for me. This must be pursued. I won't say any more about Article 27. He's got a lot of pathology, he's got a history that's heavy. So let me stay on that wish. Another issue that is also topical and I see that there is also a reflection in this bill is the well-known Article 30 on which a lot of discussion is taking place if it is beneficial or not. The government's position, as it has been presented, basically says that the ratification by law of a compensation agreement which has expired is one-way. And so a law is coming today and has some regulations, which, of course, deviate 100% from the current standard legislation on compensatory benefits, and I would like to remind you of that. In the arms race between 1996 and 2006, many contracts have been concluded - it is assumed - compensation for suppliers of equipment and defence equipment to our country. No one has been implemented. We have therefore seen that legislation has been made in both 2011 and 2014 and in 2016 by the present government to deal with these problems. Unfortunately, allow me the treasure, from what I understand, because when you are forced today to accept the pressure of a private company, even strong, which has already received its consideration from the Greek state, and you are bringing the law to ratify a new contract of compensatory benefits, you are creating a precedent and, above all, a bad precedent. Because it is not the only contract pending for liquidation or which has an endless balance. In the sense, therefore, we are pleased with the first come-ahead appetites. And that's not what I'm saying. It says so, the Legal Council of the State, the same that you referred to the case in order to give an opinion on whether it will be in the public interest to resolve the matter or not. Let me remind you, because I do not know if the opinion of the Legal Council of State has been submitted to committee - the Members who are members of the committee will know it, but I have sought it and found it - what the opinion says. 'I cannot give an opinion...' says the Legal Council of State, 'because the Convention has expired and I give an opinion on existing conventions'. He's leaving one part. Let's go to the other part. It says: 'If there is a question of maintaining the consequences of criminal liability, we will now seek them by means of the provisions on corruption, corruption, passive or active, and the monitoring of money laundering or money laundering'. There's something missing. It says in the explanatory statement of the law introduced by Article 30 that criminal responsibilities are maintained. What criminal responsibilities? When we compromise and dismantle the previous contract and create new ones, is the responsibility of crime, infidelity maintained? Not with certainty, because infidelity has a basis, the damage of the public, it has a basis of damage to the public or threat to the public. We are here saying that we are making a new contract and we are calling on these good people to resolve the matter. What do they do to us, gentlemen? Have you read the terms of the contracts, ladies and gentlemen? It is 10% the guarantee letter on the outstanding balance. It is 10%, which is in fact a guarantee letter, as is the case with the report of the Scientific Office of the Parliament, and it says that if it swallows this 10% of the outstanding balance, there are no other claims from the Greek State. Let's go later, then. Is that a sovereign view of a state? But I want to say something else here. He says something else that deviates legislation, and I am worried about it. It says that differences in the new contract of compensatory benefits are referred to the Geneva International Chamber of Commerce. Can I make a distinction? The Geneva International Chamber of Commerce is guided by its regulations and case-law to settle purely commercial disputes. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, please, I would like your tolerance for a moment. We therefore create a breach in the Greek legislative text to refer to the International Chamber of Commerce disputes which are administrative contracts. The contract of compensatory benefits is of a nature and must maintain the character of the dominant position of the Greek State. There is the interest of the Greek people and we refer it to an International Chamber of Commerce which has its own rules and does not take into account the status of party to arbitration as a sovereign state. And what frightens me is that it will be repeated in the future too, yesterday I tabled a question to the Ministry of National Defence and I would ask to be aware of the outstanding (either with the previous regimes or with the regimes on its current status) of compensatory benefits contracts. A list came today from the Ministry, but I don't know if it's complete. I'll wait for your answer, Minister, to see. But that's where I see references to arbitration again. We're abandoning matters of sovereignty. So let us stand on this, let us at least see if we can resolve them within the Greek state. And I will end, so that I do not abuse the time of my colleagues any further, with the following: In recent years, in the last fifteen, twenty days, we have a bad experience. We have the result of the Geneva arbitration, the International Chamber of Commerce, in relation to Skaramaga Shipyards. What opened up the Aeolus holds? He has justified Safa, the company that had bought the shipyards and therefore opened the poles of Aeolos, because the Greek state is now called upon to pay directly - it is immediately enforceable, as you know, Mr Ministers, this decision - the amount which is close to 200, 250 million - cannot be accurate and the arbitration decision did not deal with the repayment of aid to the shipyards given by the State. And where does the government lead the Scaramaga shipyards? It leads them to dismantling. Law No.4307, the well-known Treasury Law, defines a special manager. If the dive deadline passes, the company will go bankrupt. So, then, it is not a question of receiving, recovering illegal subsidies and financing from the public, but it will first of all be forced to have Safa as a bankrupt creditor who will claim his two hundred million. Is that how we're going to maintain a war industry? So will we strengthen our negotiating position in relation to the upgrade of the F-16? There is now a major problem here. It has been announced that in the contract that will be agreed we will have an item of USD 2.4 billion and that is where the issue is now being raised...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u164	Mr. Comrade, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u165	I shall conclude, Mr President. And there, Mr President, there is the question of paying - if it reaches the level of the contract - 2.4 billion dollars and we will wait for the return from 'LOCKHEED MARTIN', when it will carry out it, to what amount. I'll remind you of something. LOCKHEED MARTIN has a status in Greece and a history not good. The ministers know that on 2 and 3 October 2017 a meeting was held at the Directorate-General for Defence Equipment with representatives of the LOCKHEED MARTIN for compensatory contracts, if I am not mistaken, of the past. It's not mine, Minister, it's from the Ministry's official website. We are therefore calling on you now to clarify it to us.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u166	Mr. Comrade, please, we've reached eleven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u167	I shall conclude immediately, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u168	We abuse the next speaker's time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u169	That's a strong argument to interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u170	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u171	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u172	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u173	As the honourable Member raised a very good point, the matter of arbitration, I would like to remind you that we, with Mr L.4376, have abolished arbitration. And we abolished them just because the referees have always had this ending. But for old contracts - and this is an old contract, the contract we are discussing today is an old contract - we cannot abolish the term 'arbitration' because, as you can see, they do not accept it. And they do not accept it, because it tells you that we are making a compromise at the moment on the basis of the old terms. We have tried and said that under the new law it is not allowed and their reference is that the current agreement refers to the old convention. As far as compensatory benefits are concerned, there is no doubt. We all know that the compensatory benefits were intended to hide speculation. Unbelievable! But it was for training in Korea, but it was for things that no one can imagine. Today when we talk about compensatory benefits - I will refer later - we are not talking about such compensatory benefits, but about specific projects with this company, which concern only media maintenance. I'll be analytic later. However, you are absolutely right in this regard. And I would remind you that what we fought for - and unfortunately we cannot fight for it by legislation - is that the Court of Auditors in all these 2000 conventions - all these are 2000 conventions - what does it say?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u174	That he doesn't give his opinion.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u175	It says that since the first convention has not come, I refuse to give you an opinion on the amendment. And so we have a Court of Auditors that does not agree to take a position on the amendment because it did not go to the primary contract. And what comes and tells us the Legal Council of State at the time of the negotiation? Paid first, execute the terms of the contract and then appeal. The NH90 case is specific. We haven't received it from the beginning. I had to pick up a helicopter because the legal counsel of the state came to me and said: “You will have personal civil responsibilities. If you do not execute the condition of the contract, you have personal civil liability." This is, unfortunately, the question, which comes from the earlier conventions and which, of course, from now on, does not exist because we have legislated on this in relation to arbitration. But Safa, I would like to tell you that if you read the decision you will see that it does not enter the debts of Safa to the Greek State, which are 7 billion. We are therefore talking about the recognition of a few million. Let me remind you that Mr. Safa took 500 million and disappeared. We called him "Savva" today in the House. In the Committee on Foreign and Defence Affairs there was a battle for the submarines. Mr. Safa came for the Scaramaga shipyard. Instead of paying, he took 500 million and disappeared. So it is not a right for Safah to decide on the whole question of the arbitration court, but on a small part of the case, which does not, of course, cover 7 billion of his debt to the Greek State.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u176	Mr President, with the tolerance of colleagues, can you give me the floor for thirty seconds, why were what has been heard interesting?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u177	Here you go, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u178	Minister, that's right. I don't disagree. I put myself on the subject as follows: While we were able not to appeal to the International Chamber of Commerce - you suggested the legislation of 2016 - under the pressure of the company "RAYTHEON" you accepted the referral to the Chamber and will open the door for all the subsequent ones. And I'm ending up with this.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u179	They appealed. Not us.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u180	Yes, but I'm telling you something else, Minister. It's not an old contract to say he had the arbitration clause. If you abolish the previous one and conclude a new one, you have had the opportunity to negotiate it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u181	Now we've done it as a compromise.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u182	Now, in new times to avoid the international chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u183	Mr Colleague, this is happening now. As far as I understand and know, this is now the case with the new convention. Let me remind you here that in compensatory terms, Mr Ministers, when we were looking at Mr Papantoniou's file, we had found hundreds of thousands of euros for translations. Instead of fifty euros the page was fourteen thousand euros the translation page.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u184	And the bill numbers were phone numbers, as you remember!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u185	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended from the top Western theory, after taking part in the educational programme "Research and we are discussing Governor John Kapodistrias", which is organized by the Foundation of the Parliament of thirty-three students and two educational attendants from the Second General School of Sweet Waters. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr George Nzimanis has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u186	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say to my fellow Members in the New Democracy that they will not be able to return, following a judgment of 50% of the cuts made by the military, because they have cut 100%. Like also, with regard to upgrading F-16, I do not want to go into detail. However, because they are constantly referred to by previous speakers, I would like to say that in the previous Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, we agreed that the convention will be discussed at the beginning of November in a joint committee on Foreign Affairs and Armours.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u187	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u188	Because it has a name for foreign and defence, not for anything else. And we're coming to today's bill. This bill is a bill which regulates a number of issues that have arisen in recent years and created claws in the proper functioning of the Armed Forces. The bill is structured in four chapters. The first chapter includes arrangements concerning the career and service development of the Armed Forces staff, namely the possibility of voluntary residence in active service and out-of-organic positions in personnel who have completed the necessary period of retirement before they have completed the fifty-nine year of their age. This is how skilled executives who have unintentionally terminated their working life, but continue to offer the Armed Forces. Article 2 provides for the catalytic dismantling of the lieutenant to volunteers and volunteers of long term service. Article 3 reintroduces to the Army a small number of officers, special permanent, to assist with their long-term knowledge and experience in the Drought Army services providing flight work. The other articles in the first chapter deal with graduation issues, which were disturbed by Law 2439/1966 and issues of the Common Body of Military Priests. The second chapter regulates in a transparent and uniform manner the possibility of exploiting the assets of the Armed Forces that are not used and of financial value. Revenue from the sale of this material will strengthen the Ministry's budget. Military equipment may also be included in the above procedure after undergoing the deactivation process. The possibility of using a war material auction, which has no operational advantage, is also granted. For example, clothing, tents and general-purpose military vehicles. The third chapter establishes a Joint Economic Inspectorate, which will be subject to the SGP, and the Home Affairs Department, which will be directly subject to the Minister of National Defence. This new institution is coming to cover the institutional deficit of the administration in the areas of financial management and contracts of the Armed Forces. Arrangements are introduced with the fourth chapter, which resolve individual issues of responsibility of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, such as issues of longer service abroad, issues of military legislation for naturalized countries, such as Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan, Russia, etc., which are homogeneous and come to Greece. Article 26 of the same Chapter regulates the payment of late payment of military hospital debt from the material market and the provision of services. This arrangement gives a breath of liquidity to military hospitals, which, like the other hospital establishments in the HSY, are unable to repay their debts to the supplying companies. Article 30 also approves the draft Compensatory Benefits Convention between the company ‘RAYTHEON’ and the Directorate-General for Defence Equipment and Investment of the Ministry of National Defence. This contract was signed in June 1999, was amended in August 2005 and expired in September 2006. Finally, I would like to refer to Rule 27, which deals with trade unionism in the Armed Forces. This regulates details of the smoother and more effective exercise of a trade union right in the Armed Forces. This article provides for the setting-up of primary associations only in each regional unit and all primary associations are compulsory members of the Panhellenic Military Associations. The members of the Armed Forces, despite the fact that they are working in an environment with special circumstances, must not fall short of the right to trade, which all Greek citizens enjoy during the Constitution. Finally, I think that as a whole this draft law is moving in the right direction and attempts to give fair and sustainable solutions to key issues facing the Armed Forces. That is why I invite you to vote on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u189	Thank you very much, my colleague. Mr Athanasios Davakis has the floor from New Democracy for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u190	Ladies and gentlemen, once again, working on a bill from the Ministry of National Defence, we are in the following situation: Unconnected provisions, photographic, fragmentary and emblematic, as we used to call them. A bill without principle is introduced into the National Representation in order to give a vote of confidence in this House and to vote on it. I say this at the beginning of my speech because it is demonstrated, in the most pertinent way, that there is a complete absence of a specific programme, with a consistent duration of a programme which would solve the constant and significant problems of the Armed Forces. This has resulted in all three cases where the Ministry of National Defence had a legislative initiative - that there should not be a principle on these legislations. All three bills, Mr Colleague, which we have been working on in the committee that we are members, did not have one principle and said that we are now legislating to do that, we are now legislating to do the other. They are fragmentary, as we have said, and with emblematic provisions. This shows the absence of a strategic planning on the part of the Ministry of National Defence's political leadership. In fact, in what has been announced - and I have said so several times from this position - on behalf of the Minister of National Defence, any file that has been put forward that the Minister of National Defence manages it has no measurable and concrete positive effect. What happened, Minister, to the 300,000 000 annual revenues from the real estate of the Armed Forces you told us about? It was reported that the total receipts would be 649,000 in 20 years. What happened with the Fleves, which we were interested in from Abu Dhabi, as you were telling us here in a timely question, and which we would receive, as you said, EUR 3 billion that would go to the equity funds. What about the retrospectives, these great retrospectives, the remaining 50%, which had become "markable" by you? On 18 January 2015, the programme statements heard hymns, but also chickens against the reductions to the Armed Forces, and today we see that as a letterer you have, I would say, become a minister to the Ministry of Finance and not an effective minister, in order to get the remaining 50% to the executives, who have rightly appealed from our own - if you like - a policy of cutbacks at that time. Our policy, however, then gave the first 50% of the decision of the Council of State and we would give the remaining 50% in 2016, since the budgetary conditions allowed it. So I am saying all this to show once again the absence and endless words and actions of the political leadership of the Ministry of National Defence. We are coming to Article 27 on trade unionism. This article - and I believe in this we can agree with the old colleague, Mr Kammenos - is mutating as a virus, ladies and gentlemen. It appeared a year ago with an amendment from my colleague Mrs Kozobol. This amendment has been made to Article 50. And now, one year later, what we were saying from the Step showed up, the division and the dimension between the executives, not all executives, but those who want to trade in and represent the trade unionists, let me say so, the Armed Forces, the majority of whom leave this whole case indifferently. This is because the problems they face can be solved by their leadership, by their commander, by their units and, above all, by the political leadership, which is responsible, beyond the physical leadership. And here I say again that it would be interesting for the staff and the heads of government to see this issue of trade unionism, because we are talking about the staff of the leaders. If anything happens in a unit, Mr Colleague - and I look at you, Mr Karayannides, because you are the rapporteur of the SYRIZA - the head of unit will not be the master of the unit, it will not be Mr. X and Mr. F. who is representing the President of associations. Unfortunately, this demonstrates the firm attitude we have had - and the New Democracy - towards the issue of trade unionism in the Armed Forces. I believe that the Government must take a serious view of this, withdraw this article and create a different kind of political attitude to the issues raised by this article. I want to refer to Article 3. The Minister told the committee that, of course, it was sincere and I must acknowledge his sincereness - the provision of Article 3 is a photographic one. There are pictures of these five people. The question is this. Do we need pilots, Minister, or helicopters? Because so far I have known - and you know as a pilot - that we need helicopters. How are they certified to do flight and training work? Are there no other executives that could be certified in this direction? Clearly, the provisions are photographic. It offends the hierarchy, offends the academic community of the High Schools, the people who leave them, when they suddenly see five people appear from Mr. Kammenos today, or any political leadership or the HR tomorrow, because he will also use the other Minister, who will succeed you. He's gonna put his five friends, his other six acquaintances, his voters, etc. When will we legislate in this way? I repeat. Do they only have certification possibilities to hire them? When are we going to vote for these photographic provisions? And you are the forefathers of all these issues which I am baking today. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude in a minute, Mr President. I should like to close by addressing the Deputy Minister who took a clear stand against the 1990 AAC graduates. The problem is, as the recommendation from the OHIM you gave us a few hours ago, that after the induction of Law 4407, the graduates of 1988 and 1989, there is a discrimination against the 1990 graduates. Things are simple and the position of the New Democracy is quite clear, as our rapporteur has already pointed out. The 1990 graduates class should also be subject to this, Minister of State at Law 2439/1996. There's a cross-party consensus. You must join this consensus. It's a pity, when we're in this Chamber, not to do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u191	She's accepted it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u192	I'm glad. We must move on in this way. With regard to the modernisation of the F-16 - and I am closing with this - I think it must necessarily happen. We have been left with what has been said so far by the political leadership. As we all know, the backbone of Turkish aviation is F-16. That means that we too need to upgrade them, regardless of the F -35 or not. And I think that the committee responsible for the equipment of this House should be convened immediately, so that we too should ask the political leadership to give the appropriate answers so that the Greek people can calm down on these great, unthinkable amounts which are heard right and left. The whole of the noise has happened - and I would like to answer that in relation to some of the recruits, I think, the Deputy Minister or even the Minister for the past - because for the first time the President of the United States of America has begun his interview with the journalists, with Mr Tsipras present right at the F-16. We, that is, the Greek people, will work for the infamous American people from the crisis and unemployment! That's why this noise happened. The conclusions of yours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u193	Thank you very much Mr Davaki. Mr Dimitris Vitsas has the floor for one intervention.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u194	Thank you, Mr President. I shall be extremely brief and in some parts, since the burden - let me say this - of the overall position will be borne by the Minister of State, Mr Kammenos. First of all, there are two issues. One issue was raised by Mr Davakis and by Mr Davakis at the end of the day. Report this again about 20,000 for both the General Accounting Office of the State, Mr. Publicschaki. You are probably forgetting the fact that the General Accounting Office of the State, when there is a burden, records it. Why is there not mainly a burden? There is no burden on the simple reason that today - regardless of what happened years ago - pensions are calculated otherwise. The pension is calculated for all working life, so there is no charge based on this change that we do. But there is a reward, as we have given Mr Davaki. The second issue with 50% and 50%. First of all, for the second 50% - I think the Minister also agrees - to say that time is not over yet. Do a little patience for what can be done. Mr Davaki, you presented to us that you made a decision and gave 50% of the military personnel. It's not like that. In thirty-six instalments you gave them and most of the money was made on the basis of this decision - and that is how it should be done, we do not discuss it - on our own governance. In December...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u195	Give me the other 50%.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u196	I told you, be patient with this. And we work and you know we work with officers who worked with you and who are good and have the criterion of professionality too high. Also, a debate has begun - Mr Loverdos is here - for the Scaramaga shipyards. Let me remind you of a few things: in this House - I mean in this area - the debate took place when the Scaramaga shipyards were transferred to PRIVINVEST - which was what they called the company - which, at the time, we were told was the largest company in the world, which is connected with ABU DHABI MAR, which was the known company and, at the end, it was revealed that they had no interconnection, that one had left, etc. Then, on the previous governments, HSY, the Scaramaga shipyards against the Greek State, demanding about EUR 1.5 billion for for foregone profits under the agreement, which had been made by the previous governments. This has been done so far, and the explanatory statement either had as a lawyer Vgenopoulos, the late, late-absorbed one can be, we have to respect him - or they had after the English and the American company was the main one, one would say, of course. It comes back at the time - to remember all - another shipowner of shipyards and says that this agreement, which you then made with DIGICOM, with the European authorities, only provides for the repair of Greek ships from the Hellenic Navy, which was done at the Scaramaga shipyards. This has been accepted, not Panos Kammenos or Dimitris Vitsas, but Mr Venizelos as Minister of National Defence, whose legal excellence I am not in doubt and then Mr Avramopoulos. This comes after the referee court, in which she appealed and says that from 1.5 billion, I say 180 million and Safah - to speak with names - says that if we count interest rates etc. We will reach 200 million. In the meantime, it is a pending action by the Greek State, made by us, for 7 billion, for a programme that has not been completed. It is also a pending action by the Greek State or if you want the Greek State's claim, which has reached the courts for 560 million State aid recovery. And in that sense we are fully justified in asking for two things. One is to get the shipyards into a special management regime, where their responsibility for this period of operation will be mainly for the Navy, which in fact had it over the past few years, because you know that there is the contract with which both their workers and their insurance funds are paid by the Navy and which is maintained by our own fleet. Within this period of time we have moved actively so that there is, someone who would say, an investment climate around these shipyards, which will also help the country, will also help the shipyards. I say that for Scaramaga too, I say that for the other shipyards. That is the main issue I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u197	Do you agree to come to committee, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u198	Yes, of course. No objections. As far as Article 27 is concerned, I think that this is a matter for discussion. However, I would like to remind you of what I said at the sitting of the House when this amendment was first put in place. I said: How union will work in the Armed Forces will be the result of two things. One will be the seriousness with which the officials of the Armed Forces will deal with it and the second will be the reality of the situation. We're working on it and it's not too long it's been. And can I tell you something? With these arrangements that we are currently putting, in a sense - and if you read the blogs and sites, which deal with national defence issues - no one is pleased with the unions, which are called'relentless federations'. Do you want me to tell you what I think? That's good. That means he doesn't take the place of someone. And with the interventions we have made and now, a situation is taking shape and the time necessary to help them find them. Most importantly, if I have any interest, it is to complete the procedures in the primary regional sections. And if they haven't done it, and they think the courts will solve the problems, I'm clearly saying that they've never solved the trade union problems. And most of us here have some experience from the trade union country - other than the student union, other than the trade union, other than the scientific union, etc. - and we know that if we don't find a common compound, we're not going to move forward. A number of other proposals have been made. I take note of your remarks. I'm telling you, I'm thinking about them very positively. However, we cannot go here to legislate for arbitration. We can't. I've explained it a hundred thousand times. That's for Article 27. With regard to Article 30 - Mr Karras is not here - we said two things, he also agreed with what the Minister said. What do we got here? In fact, we have a significant change, a overthrow, of a compensatory benefit contract. Where was the main point? First of all, you can't forbid a company from going to the referee court or to the International Court of Justice, etc. You can't forbid that. You can say your legal arguments, you can say the real arguments. The main point is that we do not accept that, within the contract for compensatory benefits, which had nothing to do with the main contract, in particular, the parcel - I say it - and the so-called factory in the Achaea region that would be built. That's where we had a big difference, which even the company had a point. He tells you: "What do I care what my representative in Greece did?" However, the fact that their representative in Greece was in prison for scandals cared about us and cared about us and started a series of negotiations. He could not even be subject to the law of 2016. That thing couldn't have happened. Because, in fact, this is a roll-over, which is why we are bringing legislation. That's the basic thing. We will win, one will say, three times, once because the compensatory amounts are more, secondly because we avoid exit - legal and so on. - third time, because we would go to ask for a reduction in safeguards and clauses, which would bring us to new courts, so the government that exists in about ten years would still discuss the same question. I think that's where we win. I consider the amendment on the equality of scientists to be very important. This amendment is a serious step in the fact that there are no distinguished scientists who enjoy some advantages only abroad, but there are also within them. I want to give an answer because I had been asked a question. Those whose age is between thirty-three and thirty-five years, who go to the Armed Forces, are for the Air Force and for the Navy under 1% in this period, i.e., those who are over thirty-three. For the Army, it's close to 3%. She's not the majority doctors. We did a detailed situation. It's a mistake what's called doctors, etc. I would like to say something last as an opinion: this whole question has been raised because it is this service under the minister, but it is to be the chief, that is to say, to be the staff in fact. That's what they say because the police have it. I now tell you that he will actually have it to someone underneath, while the person responsible will be responsible for it, that is to say he will be ordered from above and the person from below will be able to carry out and control him from above. The main thing is that there's the prosecutor's office. That's what I wanted to say. Finally, I would like to say that I very much liked a report that has been made. It wasn't from anyone who's here right now. It seems that a song, which connects the Greek revolution to national resistance, continues to upset the descendants of those who worked with the nazis. We must say that there are conservative parties, there are central parties, there are social democratic parties, there are left parties, there are Communist parties. In this House there is a Communist Party, don't get confused in this thing. I say, therefore, that we have all fought, sometimes successful, otherwise less successful, so that the Armed Forces are committed to the task proposed by the Constitution and democracy and that we will continue to be clean in all directions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u199	Thank you very much to the Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, thirty-four students and students and two teachers from the General School of Almyros Magnesia (first Chamber). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] You will have the opportunity to listen to the President of the Group of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Dimitrios Koutsoubas. Mr. Koutsouba, you have the floor for 15 minutes, with tolerance of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u200	Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law to be discussed, both at the stage of examination in the committee concerned and before, even during the so-called public consultation, was not too much nor too much burdened by the government with expectations of extraordinarily the role it will play in the modernisation and effectiveness of the Armed Forces. This is because the bill under discussion is simply adapted to the needs of NATO member countries. Its aim is to adapt the Armed Forces even more strongly to serve the war planning of the imperialist centres, the United States of America, NATO and the European Union. They include issues relating to staff. But really, what kind of staff are you talking about? You refer to the officials who have sworn to them on a solemn basis defending them with faith and devotion up to their last flags of blood - as the relevant oath says - and who instead of actually sending them to defend the borders of our country, are sent to them to shed their blood in Afghanistan, Iraq, Kosovo, Syria, Korea, formerly or where they are demanding or will require the pursuits and interests of NATO, invoking continually contractual obligations and the continuation of the state, as if these contractual obligations were the result of your virginity - together with the previous political choices. There is a reference to personnel operating the Armed Forces, whose operational structure has been established not on the basis of the need to defend the country's borders, but on the basis of naval planning. For us it is clear: the arranged service over time of thousands of Greek Armed Forces in NATO's rapid intervention forces or other formations is not, in any case, intended to protect Greece's sovereign rights. It serves imperialist designs. The interests of our people are being reversed for their peaceful coexistence with other peoples. It poses huge risks to our country. It exposes soldiers to dangers that are irrelevant to the defence of our country's sovereignty. With the draft law being discussed, these executives, who have spent decades of their lives working in adverse conditions and who are now completing their working life, make them "gray" to reward them today with extra working time! The bill also includes arrangements concerning the economic use, as identified, of the Armed Forces' movable property. In this there is reference to old, worthless or unusable material. But what kind of material are you referring to? Are the tanks, planes, tanks or cannons, bullets and missiles provided by the Armed Forces not always to meet Greek needs? Are the weapons systems purchased under blackmail conditions in the context of armaments diplomacy by smashing inaccurate sums into the altar of supposedly humiliating and acknowledging the foreign factor, as you call it? It is no coincidence that in official visits to our country the leaderships of States that have powerful weapons monopolies, such as the United States, France, Germany, are accompanied by representatives of war industries. And today why should the Greek people trust their withdrawal? Why would the death dealers want to promote new weapons? So we ask these questions: this huge cost change of infrastructure, tailored to the threats that imperialists have to face in their business designs, how much do they have to do with the real and effective defence of our borders? The answer is one: NATO's proposed infrastructures and ultimately implemented infrastructures are not related to the defence of borders, because they are only integrated into their own plans. The draft law also includes a whole chapter, which is an important part of the process of economic inspections and internal audits, etc. So, in order to have the good question, with the creation of these control infrastructures, do you want to convince the Greek people that there will be an end to money laundering, the hatreds, as our people simply say, in this security of armaments? It is also known to the most ignorant about arms supplies, that money laundering, the redemption of preferences, is a regime in equipment and is the result of enormous competition between multinationals. This is particularly true in the case of Greece, which spends much of its budget on the arms market which, among other things, is not relevant to the country's real defence needs, but serves NATO and the European Union's planning. The size of economic haemorrhage in Greece on the altar of NATO needs also shows the annual report of the International Institute for Strategic Studies, published in February 2017. It says that twenty-six European countries - NATO members increased their defence expenditure in 2016, but only on a small scale. According to the same body, only two of these countries kept the NATO commitment of 2% of GDP: Estonia and Greece. That is why the SYRIZA - ANEL government often strongly accepts NATO's congratulations, before Obama, now and Trump, US defence ministers, etc. At the same time, more wages, pensions, benefits, social benefits are being cut. Following the recent visit of the Prime Minister to the United States, it appears that the upgrading agreement for Greek F-16 aircraft has already been completed. Who is this sale serving? Before the Greek Government responded, we were told by the Americans themselves. It is revealingly what is recorded in a document of the American Defence Cooperation Organisation of the United States Department of Defence, a service recommended to Congress such issues. He says: "This proposed sale will help achieve the objectives of the United States' foreign and national security policy, contributing to the improvement of NATO's security. It will strengthen the capacity of the Greek Air Force to support NATO and remain interoperable with the United States of America and NATO alliance. It will also help Greece to support businesses in the future, thus reducing the threat posed by the enemies of the alliance for the United States of America and the alliance." But all this is absolutely necessary for the implementation of the American imperialist interventions in the wider geopolitical area. Our people will pay for it with their sweat. Now on whether the cost will be $2.4 billion or 1.1 billion is known that their war industries will get exactly what they want. As for the fairy tale of compensatory benefits, whether or not they are to be implemented, it is well known that the practice prevails with the overpricings imposed on the weapons systems for sale, with the cap being distributed to a vast proportion of domestic arms dealers. But our people have paid for it. We say clearly that it is a colossal economic haemorrhage, which serves the defence interests of Greece very little, but to an overwhelming extent the American - NATO. We, seeing as a whole the issue of Greece's involvement in supporting the operational planning of imperialist forces, cannot distinguish from this involvement the issue of the existence of foreign military bases on Greek territory. This issue also prevailed in the discussions on the Greek Prime Minister's recent trip to the USA's meetings with Trump and high-ranking officials. Tsipras said about the Souda base: "As far as Crete and the Souda base are concerned, it can and should be upgraded". We are not missed by the fact that a number of former government parties, the Chief of New Democracy himself, have been in favour of a longer renewal of the Souda concession agreement to the Americans. Therefore, reasonable questions arise: What exactly did you agree on Souda in the United States of America? Extension of the agreement for more years? Spatial extension of the base and why? Is there any transfer of American marines from Inchurlich, the fate of American war aircraft or drones? Is it going to alternatively transfer drones to Kastelli? In addition, we ask you to tell the people and why the Souda base needs to be upgraded, and if the question is rhetorical, the answer was given by the Minister of National Defence himself to an event for the seventy years of operation of the Greek Defence Cooperation Office - the USA last June, in the presence of the American Ambassador. "We need," he said, "the aid of the United States to expand our navy capabilities so that it can operate from Crete to Suez. If we do not now stop financing terrorism through illicit trafficking in drugs, arms, illegal oil, it is impossible to fight terrorism. That's why we want your help to extend the possibility of Navy and Air Force, because Greece will be on the United States side every time." In fact, the Minister of National Defence, a few days after the visit to the United States of America, traveling to Egypt, said publicly: 'We must not be appalled in order to stand up to the challenges. A few hours ago we returned with the Prime Minister of Greece from the United States where again the international community calls for Greece and Egypt to be involved in the formation of a pillar of stability, which can bring peace to the wider region and that is what we are doing." What exactly does it ask you - we are asking you - to do what the international community, namely, NATO and the United States? What have you agreed on? Will the Navy, as has been proposed, take over airline services in the eastern Mediterranean from the platforms of which American bombers take off to sow ruin in Syria and Iraq? Will the Air Force or Aircraft of the Hellenic Navy take over the P3 upgrades to the EAA in Tanagra to do NATO patrols on behalf of the Eastern Mediterranean in the Maltese area as Suez, as recommended by government officials? Will the Warship Navy continue to be seconded to manipulate the SNMG-2 NATO armada caused by the government in the Aegean Sea for the management, tactfully, of the refugee and in practice ships are stretched through patrols from the Balearic Islands in the western Mediterranean to the Black Sea? Will the secondment of ships and submarines from the War Navy continue to staff NATO's Sea Guardian operation, which, on the pretext of maritime safety, controls the presence and activity of ships of competitive imperialist centres on the Mediterranean seafront? Of course Mr Tsipras is not here today to answer. We're patient. We will be waiting for this and for all the previous and other questions that we have raised. Ladies and gentlemen, in the context of this internal policy there is already information on visits by American officials to airports, camps, other facilities, to select and convert them into US bases. The Government is exposed to its misconduct in the JRC complaints concerning planned nuclear storage at Araxos base. On the day the Tsipras' visit to the United States was completed, the confirmation of the serious complaints made by the JRC during the previous period, that extensive work and preparations on this air base have gone ahead in order to save weapons of US and NATO nuclear weapons there. According to information, a meeting was held on 26 and 28 September at NATO headquarters in Brussels to review the work done by a relevant NATO committee to modernise the Araxos base in order to host specific weapons, without specifying what kind of special weapons they are. Related information from this meeting was sent by service - it has been written in the press - to the Ministry of Defence by means of a classified document. After the publication of this document, the government replied to other words to be loved. Things are simple. Is there or is there not the document? Does the government deny its existence? What exactly are you talking about with the United States of America? At the same time, a number of information suggests that American staircases have visited the air bases in Anchovies, Andravida, Larissa, Skyros or elsewhere. Is it true? Are there any plans by the US Government to transfer instruments, personnel, activities of the United States of America and these bases? Especially for northern Greece and Alexandroupolis, where is the American interest in gas storage station, slate gas station at the port and Alexandroupolis airport, which a few months ago used as a hub to process NATO forces to Bulgaria and then to Romania, for this large-scale NATO exercise Noble Jump, is there an enhanced American military gradient or even building an American base? Already yesterday part of it has been converted into a temporary NATO base for dismantling and transporting NATO helicopters. In all this and other questions, the Greek people must have clear answers. Don't think you're washing off the trips to the Macronese, your reports to the Resistance, the Red Carnations in Cesarean. Everyone has learned you now. After the "political stripping" - as wrote by "RIZOPASTIS" - to Trump, you remember a few left krone. Your nerve will remain proverbial. And leave what you know, that "other government and SYRIZA's party". Of course, you don't originalize that. You are also copying this well-known corrupt and doomed PASOK who, on one hand, gave land and water for the bombing of civilians in Yugoslavia in 1999 and its executives were supposedly playing against war and bombing. The Macronissos was a symbol of resistance and disobedience, as thousands of resistance fighters, citizens and soldiers, young and old, and even children, especially in the period 1947-1950, did not sign a declaration of renouncement of their ideas, principles and testifies for this. No one accused you of going there, but of the dirty exploitation of your presence there. It doesn't suit you to be the babies and wronged virgins. You went there at the same time as you signed a declaration of repentance on American imperialism, bringing up the U.S. starship, applauding Tsipras, who was washing out in the devil, as he called it, a face of Trump all their crimes, after he does all these evil for our good, as your Prime Minister again said. The Greek people do not need such admonitions or such leaderships. And of course you can justify all this because - as you are doing - you are making a national policy, not forgetting that, and not a party. The essence of your policy, however, is fully matched by the interests of the dominant class and its allies. But the thundered fish, as your friends say, does not need bait. The Greek people, we say again, do not need prime ministers and political parties, believers of the imperialist new order, who bleed the Greek people financially for equipment and NATO projects, to give the money that the Greek people are constantly paying, to the military-industrial complex of the United States of America. That's all you have to apologize for. The working class itself, the Greek people will not allow you to drag him into humiliation, dangerous imperialist planning, interventions and wars. Ladies and gentlemen, let me tell you one last thing. On the issue of the representation of Armed Forces officials, the JRC supports the JRC's right to every category of military trade, to establish associations to highlight their problems and to claim their solution. Until very recently for the urban state and the mechanisms that support it and only implementation in practice of the concept of union in the Armed Forces has been a creepy prospect. For strains of Armed Forces, regardless of industry, grade or origin, it was and is a necessity. Some people started the struggle for their collective representation in 2005. He followed a long and difficult course with bans, persecutions, threats of all kinds. No one can forget the rabies struggle against this process of leadership of the defence ministries, personal sentences, persecutions to the protagonists of the operation by the military leadership, the ruthless war of the returnee unions controlled by the Ministry of Defence. They insisted, endured, at the end. From the vote of the previous law to now it is clear that a dispute has evolved, openly fuelled by the SYRIZA Government on one hand and New Democracy on the other. We say clearly that these conflicts are moving against the interests of the officers, their claims and ultimately against the completion of their struggles. All of this works only disorientatively for the Armed Forces' strains and is consumed in a painless and convenient controversy for the government, when the aggravating measures for executives succeeded one another. The JRC, on the contrary to the positions which you all support, supports the broadening of the rights of the military and the lifting of the bans existing in existing law, such as with more general matters of political awareness and the implications of government policy. Today the existence of the Military Regional Units as primary organs and the Panhellenic Federation of Military Unions as a secondary level is a reality for the strains of the Armed Forces. They have a long way to go, but union in the Armed Forces is a reality. After all the above and all the reasons which have been put forward in detail by the previous Members of the party who have spoken and others who will be speaking, we will vote against the draft law under discussion in total, except for some of the issues on which we shall be addressing the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u201	Thank you very much to the President, Mr Kutsuba. Mr Athanasios Kavadas from New Democracy has the floor for seven minutes. The Parliamentary spokesman for the Golden Dawn, Mr Pappas, has then asked for the floor. Then Mr. Koumoutsakos, Mr.Micholoannakis, Mr. Kyriazides, Mrs. Papakostas, Mr. Theocharis, Mr. Aygeakis and Mrs. Maria Triantafylou. Mr. Kavvada, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u202	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, today's debate is taking place a few days after the new armament agreement concluded by Mr Tsipras in the United States of America on the upgrading of F-16, which is of course necessary. However, once again, the coup d'état is facing such a serious issue with great care and after the announcements to the White House, no one has informed the Greek people what exactly this is about.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u203	What deal? There's no deal.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u204	No Greeks know yet how much this deal will cost. Will it cost 2.4, will it cost 1.1 billion? How much exactly? No one knows how many aircraft they'll be upgraded. No one knows whether there are or whether there are no compensatory measures and, if so, what they are. A moment ago, Minister, you told us that these measures would be for media conservation.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u205	There's no deal...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u206	Minister, I'd like to go on a little bit...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u207	Well, there's no deal for you not to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u208	What did you do? Didn't you make a deal with the president of America? What did you do?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u209	No deal.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u210	What did you do? Just a conversation? Did you just have a conversation?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u211	The deal will be done when it is done.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u212	Let's move on, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u213	A moment ago, Minister, you said that these measures would be for media conservation. We therefore expect you to report specifically, as you have said before, during the debate. For that is what Mr Trump said in the agreement. There will be jobs in America. Do you disagree about that, too? And he did a lot for his country. But what do we do, ladies and gentlemen? In Greece with the hundreds of thousands of unemployed, what benefits will this agreement have on the labour market? These, Minister, are very specific questions for which Greek citizens are asking answers. Now, if it is not an agreement and it is something else, and it is a promise, but this has been discussed, Minister. Don't insist on the deal. This issue has been discussed. That's what's gonna happen. What are you talking about? I hope that, while we are discussing this bill, you can answer us. I would also like you, Minister, to tell us what will finally happen with the return of the retrospective personnel of the Armed Forces judged as unconstitutional. I remind you of your commitment that the first law you would bring as Minister of National Defence would solve this issue. Almost three years later, nothing has happened and thousands of uniforms are still waiting. I ask exactly when the retrospectives will be given. How long will they be waiting? A moment ago, Mr. Vitsats told us that time was not over yet. We are therefore waiting until the end of the year for what you said. But know that the Armed Forces, like all Greeks, are now acknowledging the mocking by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. However, it would be pleasant if you made the surprise and, starting with the uniforms, you kept your promises. In any case, ladies and gentlemen, the next New Democracy government has committed itself to resolving the problem and the New Democracy, when it undertakes to implement it, implements it. We have already announced that, while respecting the decisions of our judiciary, we will be returning 50% of the retrospectives pending. Another important issue is the widow's pensions for the spouses of the Armed Forces. This is something you should finally see, Minister, in cooperation with the Ministry of Labour. On 4 October, at the third meeting of the committee on the bill, we still had a promise from the Minister that he would regulate it. You know that the wives of the trustees, due to transfers and special lifestyle, are not easy to have a stable job. We therefore consider it necessary to provide for a specific provision so that the spouses of the deceased who have not completed the fifty-five years do not receive a widow's pension for only three years and then be cut. Minister, I've asked you a question at the end of June about the reduction in half of the Flight Engineer's Flying Engineer's Flying Engineer's Flying Engineer's Flyer's Flying Classes I1 and I2's. It is paradoxical that the cut was only made in this category. All others are normally paid. And I ask, isn't everyone on board the same flying medium? Not everyone is at the same risk and at the same risk? In the event of an accident, isn't everyone together? In your reply, which I received last July, you blame the Treasury, even though it goes without saying that it is mainly yours. I would therefore ask you to reconsider this matter and withdraw this absurd decision. I shall now turn to the Minutes and the question I have raised and your answer. [[At this point the Member, Mr Athanasios Kavadas, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that we have asked you to make the arrangements for military union in Article 27 of this bill back. We have told you that it is not possible to bring a photographic arrangement to serve a counsellor and a particular Union, and in this way to create a division in the army, especially when there are pending judicial decisions. This is an issue you need to see again, at least at the last minute, and get Article 27 back. What we are proposing is that the two existing federations sit on the same table and from zero to create the new federation after the elections. In what way? With a delegation from the two federations, i.e. three primary associations from POMENS and three primary associations from the WTO. These should be the founding primary members of the new federation and should be provided for in the law. I think that's the self-evident and the least that the Armed Forces deserve. Finally, let me repeat the proposal I made at the first meeting of the committee. I asked you to ensure that the redefinition of antiquity between the graduates of the senior military schools and the reclassification officers, a problem that emerged with L.4407/2016. What we are asking for the restoration of order and isology is for all officers to apply the status of L.3883/2010. In other words, between the same ranks, regardless of the year in which they were acquired, the high-level officers would be superior to the high-level military schools, then the officers would be officers and then the officers would be reconstructed. Mr Vitsats has made a commitment to the committee that you will deal with this matter. I would ask you to keep your commitment, because so far you have not brought any legislation in this regard. Even now, I ask that this matter be dealt with, because it is unfair. We are therefore voting, as our rapporteur has said, 'no' at first and, in a constructive position, we are voting for eleven of the thirty articles.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u214	Thank you very much, my colleague. I would ask the Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, Mr. Poppa, to come to Step for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u215	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to repeat that in the draft law on the principle of 'no' we are talking about. Of course, fatefully, the debate and a large part of it revolved around the Prime Minister's trip to the United States of America, his meeting with President Trump and the cost of a particular photograph, the handshake of Tsipras - Trump, which may be the most expensive photograph in the history of the two centuries of this art. It is an agreement that will cost $2.4 billion. Mr Tsipras rightly collected the thanks of the warlord President of the United States, the institutional protector of the arms industries, and his thanks for the new jobs for the unemployed American citizens. Because if we want to talk about the Greek unemployed, they are at the mercy of God. Mr. Tsipras on his trip to the United States gave it all and he didn't get anything. As the Secretary-General of the People's League rightly pointed out - Golden Dawn Mr.Michaloniakos - I read his words - 'No harm found Mr. Tsipras from the election of Trump, Mr. Tsipras, who quickly forgot the slogan 'kidneys of peoples, Americans'. What they asked him to do and took nothing but promises and words of the air." That's the truth, ladies and gentlemen. He gave it all up, and he didn't get anything. He was left with this picture of the handshake Tsipra - Trump. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Papapas, presents for the minutes the above photograph, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] With regard to Mr Tsipras' journey and the agreement on F-16, Souda and so on, we should note that he did not surprise anyone internally. But he was surprised to give it all, Mr. Tsipras, many abroad. Even high-ranking corporate executives in Chicago have come to speak positively - their own words - for the "politically old Prime Minister" and have been amazed at the different image that he is projecting and the rhetoric he uses abroad. For F-16, an unprecedented cost agreement to upgrade, a contract that may be one of the largest in international and European defence history, the Minister of National Defence, who is present, declared, as the previous ones have said, that the cost will be $1.1 billion. How did we finally drive to $2.4 billion? You should explain that to us, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u216	There's not what you're saying about the 2.4 billion.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u217	Impossibly, you expect to collect all the questions and, if you want and you can, answer the whole question. Questions and concerns arise. So how did we get to 2.4 billion? According to your statement to the electronic media, there will be free assistance covering this difference, namely, from 1.1 billion to 2.4 billion. But will there be compensatory benefits?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u218	I haven't said that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u219	I'm watching your twitter, Mr. Kammenos, even though you've blocked me. I see what you're talking about. You officially say it. We'll pay 1,1 billion and then they'll give it to us for free.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u220	I said 1,1 billion is the roof. It's over!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u221	It's the roof and the rest for free.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u222	Oh, no. I haven't said that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u223	You haven't said that? I reserve my dentistry to bring it to you. However, you have said within this building but also the Deputy Minister - and that is why I ask whether there will be compensatory benefits, as our speaker Mr Kouzis rightly pointed out this morning - that the compensatory benefits are the epitome of hatred. Will there be compensatory benefits? Another question, the main question, is this: Why did you not consider buying new fighter aircraft, with advanced defence systems, such as Russian Suhoi, which is supermodern - and not only these, but there are other options on the international market - rather than opting for the upgrade of outdated F-16 versus F-35, which will soon have - if it is, we will see it - Turkey?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u224	We'll see about that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u225	That's what they see. We were told in 2027 about the F-35.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u226	In 2020.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u227	2020? I mean, a junta difference.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u228	In 2020.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u229	Also, can we ask you this: has this agreement taken the legal path? So, did he meet up with the C.E.S.E.L.D.?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u230	There's no deal.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u231	Trump said a deal, and you celebrate for a deal. Did you have a conversation about this in the D.C.S.A.?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u232	If there's no deal, I'm telling you!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u233	There's no deal. Is everything in the air?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u234	There's nothing yet.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u235	Everything was a bartender, a firework, like this fire "but hope comes". Is that how to pick it up? So, poor President Trump thanked the Prime Minister for the new jobs?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u236	But he did not say the word 'Bullet'.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u237	Let us send him this sitting today, that no agreement has been reached.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u238	Let's send it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u239	Let's take care of it. Look, as you say, and without fluorescents, no personal confrontation - politics, yes - there is an answer why you have done all this in America and why Mr Tsipras went to America. He doesn't want any verbal applause or answers from you, Mr. Cammene. And you and the Prime Minister - and not just you, to be fair, but too many of you through here - belong to the same area. You're American-Americans and American-Americans. It's over and over! It's true, how do we do it? Other questions, such as Souda, about the extension of the Souda's activities and what ultimately benefits this base, which puts us in the war conflict vortex and established an Anglo-American time-consuming policy in the area of the Eastern Mediterranean and the Middle East: the possibility of new campaigns by the American Republic, the imposition of the Republic by weapons, as America has done in recent decades. So in a new campaign, what role does Souda play? Will the foundations be on the Greek island, which has been transformed for the sake of your policies - and not only your own policies, but also over time and not only after the MB, but also before the MB - on an American plane? I point it out as a future development about how Americans, in cooperation with their own people, are considering all the scenarios. The left were shouting, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the slogan 'outside the foundations of death'. With them was also called by the young cripple at the time Alexis Tsipras, to meet with Trump and the representatives of the international illiterate capitalist capital. Well, get out the bases of death. Yes, literally death! I read from my question of 13 October this year about the quantities of radioactivity detected in our country. The Greek Defence Committee announced that from September 27th to October 5th small quantities of radioactivity were detected in our country's atmosphere. In particular, the information is said for a large concentration of the isotope "rutene 106", which was detected in the Cretan Sea and specifically in the Souda region. So do I ask the relevant questions, whether there is information, etc., or whether we are going to go blindly, as we were in 1987 with Chernobyl and the Soviets? Crete, Minister, has risen up on this issue and this issue is extraordinarily introduced into the regional council. People are worried about their children. We hear about increasing children's cancers in Cretan birds in Chania, where they are treated in Athenian hospitals. You promised, gentlemen of the conflict, the tearing of the memorials and "visited" supposedly a hope coming. Instead, you have scattered death and misfortune - literally, to mention, as another speaker referred to, the widow's pensions, which the Golden Dawn has asked, the spouses of deceased officers. But, Minister, today's meeting is taking two other events which concern both the government and the Ministry of Defence in particular. Firstly, the male attack of the state-run mercenaries of the new order, anarchists, to three hopeful ones and, from what is said, to a soldier, but also to citizens in Monastiraki, in the center of Athens. There's cameras, there's evidence, there's footage. What are you waiting for, what is your colleague of the Ministry of Public Order, and what steps will he take in this regard? But what action does the helpless citizen who lives in a capital where lawlessness and chaos dominate? As repetitively happens in your days, none of those making up the interstate mob were arrested or even brought forward by the authorities. This shows that there are orders for the prosecution authorities to leave the perpetrators inconceivable. In addition, given that they come from the SYRIZA extraparliamentary area, which never has SYRIZA or have refused, increases our suspicions. So the inappropriate attack on hope is an attack on the state and the indifference shown by your government is succumbently and insulting. Obviously, you do not fully understand that you, as a government in general, but also as Ministries in particular, have a duty to defend and care for the citizens of this country whose taxes your ministries are managing. Finally, Minister, the information says that the hopeful were wearing a uniform.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u240	What do you think?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u241	And that's...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u242	Stop insulting the hopeful!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u243	I don't offend any of the hopeful.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u244	Hopeless uniforms neither need to protect anyone, nor yours nor the police. Please very much. Mr. Poppa, you're talking about hopeless. Watch what you're saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u245	Hopeful people were wearing a uniform. Those in connection with the School of Hope know that all first - year students have an obligation to wear the uniform. They used to be licensed, when the oath was made, on December 21st, on its anniversary.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u246	There is no hope, which would have this treatment in uniform.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u247	Wait.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u248	Please say what else you want, but leave the hopeless out.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u249	Let go of the show, Mr. Cammane. We don't want it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u250	But it's embarrassing what you're saying. It offends the army.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u251	Hopeless people don't want protection.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u252	You go protect them with the Citizen's Department.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u253	They don't want a patron. We have civil protection, your colleague, Mr Toska. Did you tell him a word? So they say that the uniform was a red cloth for the left. The hopeful return from leave, they were wearing the honored uniform of the Greek Officer and this was a red cloth for the interstate mob.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u254	You're a liar and a slander.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u255	For decades - you have also been co-responsible - the media and politicians of the so-called 'constitutional arch', you are, you are, you are, you are, you fear, and you are slandering the army.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u256	You're a liar! Rescind! They weren't wearing hopeless uniforms. Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u257	The army for your "speakers", those with whom you co-operate, is a remnant of the past and is part of the reproduction of extreme right-wing ideas.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u258	It's a disgrace to what you're saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u259	These are words of your own, co-government. It's at the conferences you're going to say hello. An entire society has been taught since 1974, and then hates the uniform and everything that symbolizes: discipline, hierarchy, duty and ideals, which were considered to be conceived right-wing and golden-minded, while your answer, the "constitutional arch", of the left-hands now, of progress, is supposed to be the hammering and bag with the black money. Minister, really, you're so bold, you're gonna punish the hopeless, because they're likely to put it in the suit. Because, if you do not know - I tell you - since March 2010, there has been the Tolons Regulation published in the Official Journal of the Government, where it says that it is forbidden in the large urban centers of officers and soldiers, men and women, the Armed Forces to wear number 9. Will you explain that to us, Minister? Is this outfit a disgrace? The uniform will only be worn as a confrontation by governmental citizens? You and the Prime Minister are aware of this. The second issue of the days - and I shall end, Mr President - is the defiance of the Greek Army, which took place at an event by the Ministry of National Defence, in the presence of Mr Vitsa, your colleague Deputy Minister. According to an anniversary of October 28, the Xiras Army Orchestra played rebel songs and songs of ELAS. And it's okay with Mr. Vitsa, let's say yes. However, because we have learned to speak the language of truth, at any cost - and prisons and exiles, we are ready for everything - to say this: The present officers of the Greek Army, who participated in this sad event, this performance - which was finally celebrated? Did she celebrate the F-16 deal, the non-existent, as you say? - they didn't offend the dead of the 1946-1949 anti-gang fight? Hasn't anyone been found to leave? So much has your sepsis been through politics? I'm afraid he's even going through the Army. You are characterized by responsibility, indecisiveness, cowardice in the face of threats that our country accepts. Men, however, and women who bear the honored uniform of the Greek Officer must not have these characteristics. Unhappiness, Greek people, for our Greece to have a Prime Minister and Party Chief, a nationalist, but who...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u260	Mr. Poppa, please avoid these designations. They are not attentive now to the debate we are having. We're talking about the Department of National Defence. Avoid, please, the cowardice of a minister and the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u261	You were talking about it once, Mr President, but you forgot about it. I conclude, saying only this: no matter how upset you are, it does not act alone. It does not only have the President of the Independent Greeks. There's a node liberal, too. It has the jungle of the New Democracy, this party that declares radical, social liberalism and these ridiculousities. It has the same nationalist, the other side of this currency, the euro, Mr Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u262	Please don't call us that. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u263	The Golden Dawn is dilated on the subject of the Greek Army. I submit to the minutes the Official Journal of the Government, which says about uniforms and forbids members of the Armed Forces from running uniforms in large urban areas. I also testify for the Minister to read from the Golden Dawn political programme our positions on the army. [[At this point, the Member, Christos Papapas, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Mr President, despite all your interruption in my thoughts, I would like to thank you for the time you have given me. To close, not to you, but above all to the Greek citizens who are following us - those who are following us - I would like to say: You have found that the voice of truth is Golden Dawn, the only national resistance within the House. We Golden Dawn are against Marxists and liberal ethnicists. We are against the American politicians of SYRIZA and the New Democracy, against those who vote for memorials, to build jams, according to cohabitation, incinerators of the dead, gender identity, which are three years apart, from fifteen to eighteen. We are against you, against the political establishment for the country and the people and about the Golden Dawn of Hellenism.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u264	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u265	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u266	Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u267	A number of questions have been raised which I would like to hear.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u268	And one final question, Mr Cammené, which you will answer. Did you go to 401? Did you personally go to 401?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u269	Mr. Pappa, do not address the Minister. We must not open the dialogue right now. You have also addressed them with designations, which we should avoid. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u270	Mr President, as Minister of National Defence, I would like to say that I am very sorry that in the Greek Parliament it was falsely mentioned and with the intention that in the episode of hope the day before yesterday, hopeful people were wearing a uniform. I want to assure the Greek Delegation that Greek Hope in uniform would never return or be hopeful.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u271	To force your colleague to arrest the perpetrators. That's what you do.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u272	So what you say insults the School of Hope, the army and the nationalist.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u273	It has nothing to do with the School of Hope.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u274	Mr. Pappa, please! The Minister must answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u275	It offends the army, the nationalist and the Greek Armed Forces.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u276	If you're talking about West Point, all right. But for the School of Hope, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u277	What Mr. Pappas says...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u278	Mr. Poppa, do you degrade the School of Hope? I'll be intruding too. It's not right! Decrease the level of hope? Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u279	It's an attempt to insult the army.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u280	About West Point to speak!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u281	Two people have said that. The Golden Dawn and Ilias Kanellis at the "NEA" with exactly the same delusion, in order to offend the Hellenic Armed Forces. Such an insult I do not accept and I ask the entire House of Greeks to condemn it. In the same article, Canelles once again wrote what was said by the Golden Dawn - it is on the same line - a so-called agreement in America.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u282	Isn't there a deal?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u283	No deal is there! I'll talk later. No deal is there!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u284	What are you celebrating then?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u285	Mr. Pappa, the Minister will explain. You said it in your speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u286	Recognize that hopeful ones were uniforms.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u287	I'm not withdrawing at all!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u288	Rescind!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u289	I come from the School of Hope. Averoff got me out.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u290	Rescind! It's very heavy what you said that Greek hopeful in uniform...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u291	Mr. Pappa, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u292	Show's over!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u293	Why are you insisting now? Can you tell me why you insist?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u294	It's a show right now, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u295	No, it doesn't. I think we understand how the show's done. But please don't interrupt the Minister now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u296	Because he referred to in guerrilla songs and in a post, I looked into the subject. There was a song of Gorgopotamos that was Zervas along with ELAS. Some others with the swastika were across the street, the same swastika you bring.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u297	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u298	Mr. Poppa, you have intervened in the last half hour.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u299	This can't be left unanswered. It's personal reproach.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u300	But please be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u301	Mr President, I should like to inform the Minister that my family has paid a heavy price of blood to the national struggles and to the war 1940-1941 and to say that in the village of Lakka Suli, Lipa Ioannina, because from a village we come for six months, General Napoleon Zerva had my father's father's headquarters as general. And my grandfather, on my mother’s side, fought in 1940-1941 and took two excellence of men. For us and for me personally, in my personal history, the Greek Army is my life and the Greek Army honor him in any case. The Greek Army is not signs and variation suits, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u302	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty two students and students and two educational attendants from the General School of Almyros Magnesia (Second Chamber). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Kumucako, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u303	Ladies and gentlemen, today's debate concerns important issues and regulations of the Ministry of National Defence and the New Democracy has clearly been placed on these issues. However, today's meeting is also taking place on the echo of the recent visit by the Prime Minister to the United States, and this requires that we make a substantial assessment, especially when this visit was marked by the issue of the upgrading of F-16 aircraft. But should it be like this? Our conviction is that we don't. The evaluation of this visit should not be one-thematic. The demand was to achieve enlargement, deepen, enrich Greek American relations with clear benefits for the country, concrete, measurable and concrete. That was our position and we developed it in time and in public, giving substantial support to the government, because we have dealt with the Prime Minister's visit to the United States as an important opportunity for the country to promote our national interests. In this light, the President of the party Kyriakos Mitsotakis was also placed with a sense of national responsibility. Of course, this attitude is self-evident for us. Unfortunately, it was never like that when you were opposition. Then instead of responsibility for irresponsibility, instead of realism screaming. Of course, that's the ones then. Now you have submitted your respects by tabling your revolutionary carnations in the Garden of the Roses. That's the truth. We, in our attitude, filled the Prime Minister's diplomatic suitcase for this visit, but finally it proved to be a missed opportunity, because the Prime Minister went to the United States at an extremely rare geopolitical juncture for the country, a geopolitical juncture in which Washington is looking for reinforced and, above all, stable support in the Eastern Mediterranean, the Middle East and the Balkans. The Prime Minister's visit therefore had to focus on achieving concrete positive results in specific areas of national interest. We have identified them: a road map of strategic cooperation with concrete steps and objectives in the economy, attracting investment, energy, foreign policy, defence, new technologies, and even tourism and culture. That would be a real depth of a strategic relationship. Secondly, building a mutually beneficial defence cooperation, which would recognize the geostrategic importance of our country and the sacrifices of Greeks for national defence. Also, substantial cooperation in the Balkans to reflect the special position and role of our country in this area. This would also facilitate the definitive closure of the issue of the name of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, without insulting our history, without insanity and with full respect for good neighbourly relations. A clear message to Turkey had to be achieved that it cannot continue the unacceptable policy of challenges in the Aegean and a firm and clear message that respect for international law in the Aegean and the eastern Mediterranean is crucial for peace in the region. A message should also be provided to relaunch the Cyprus resolution process to end the illegal Turkish occupation at last. Substantial support from the United States to Greece for the Western world's efforts to deal with refugees - immigration. Finally, a long-standing agreement on the use of the Souda base, which strengthens our national and regional role and security. Because I have read, Minister, that some in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are blaming the opposition because it has called for a long-term inspiration agreement, I would point out that if this is the case, if they are actually talking about undermining the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, it is funnyness, beyond all logic. Obviously, when you're in a advantageous position, you have reason to ensure greater benefits for a longer period of time before the favourable juncture may change. For this reason - and finally let us speak with concrete and tangible examples - in the 1990 Souda Agreement on the Government of Constantine Mitsotakis, the American side granted A-7 aircraft to Greece for free. Then, in the context of the defence cooperation launched at the time, a large number of tanks were upgraded with particularly favourable conditions and other weapon systems. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] This is the line you should follow. That is why we insist that the government should seek a comprehensive agreement, an agreement which, as well as the country's geostrategic and geopolitical position, should upgrade and recognise, but also economic exchanges, should be such as to respect the country's difficult budgetary situation. There is unjustified and shadowy ambiguity about the content of the upgrade of F-16. In my original text I had the term 'agreement'. I now have to change it to a "debate" of the F-16, because it is revealed by the repeated statements of the Minister of National Defence that there is no such agreement either. In other words, on this journey for which the government itself had lifted the cubit, with two-teen tons before it even took place, the only tangible result is nothing! Even the F-16 says the Minister was agreed to upgrade nothing of what I said was not achieved. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I have asked for some time. We believe that a number of issues need to be cleared up: is the sum of 1,1 or 2,4 billion? Where's the truth? How many aircraft are we talking about? When will they surrender? How's the payback going to be? Will the Greek Defence Industry be involved? Will there be compensatory benefits? All this is shadowy, unclear and unknown. After all, if the only issue was F-16, why did the Prime Minister go? What brought from there? This could even be done at the highest level of service! What was the point of targeting this visit? The current geopolitical context is determined by total regional ambiguity. The country's environment is uncertain and unpredictable, mainly because Turkey in its behaviour has become an uncertain and unpredictable ally of the West. So there is a very important juncture for the country and the government is doing well and it is talking about stability. But is that stability its own achievement? Since the Century Greece is a stable country. It works the democratic city, and it's a stable country. And you know why? Because this is due to the major strategic choices made by others before you: Greece's participation in NATO, Greece's participation in the European Union, good relations with the United States. In other words, the stability of the country is due to what you have taken. Others have worked on this stability, and now that you're the ones who were in favour of it, you are now taking advantage of it. It's not your stability privilege, it's not yours. The country has been stable since 1974. What has changed and the context is favourable is that the region is uncertain, not that the country is stable. In conclusion, I would like to say that if the country's sense of stability was shaken post-culturally, this was the first time, during your first government service. Then there was uncertainty about the stability of the country and was overrun with assholes - fortunately! - when 'yes' became 'no' and 'no' 'yes'. Finally, in order to avoid any misunderstanding, the criticism of the Prime Minister's visit to the United States does not focus on the Ghost Agreement - after what Mr Kammenos said today - or on the F-16 issue. We didn't say it was wrong. It was necessary because there is the challenging of the Turks on the other hand. Our criticism focuses - and it is a valid criticism - on the fact that a very great opportunity has not been exploited, an extremely positive geopolitical situation for the country. You have dealt with yourself or in any case it seems that you have only brought the F-16, but you are also questioning this today. The Minister of National Defence says that this is not even the case. Then what happened? So a very big opportunity has been lost. The government once again proved to be inferior to the circumstances.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u304	Thank you, Mr. Kumucako. Minister Kammenos has requested intervention. Then two parliamentary representatives will follow and we will continue with the list of speakers. Here, Mr. Cammene, you have the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u305	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would particularly like to thank the House for the constructive debate which has taken place today and also for the discussions that have taken place in the Standing Committee on the draft law. The Deputy Minister, but also I, have tried to incorporate several of the observations made by the institutions, as well as by the parties, the MPs in the draft law, which is being put to the vote in Parliament. The bill settles several issues of the Ministry of National Defence with new institutions such as "Internal Affairs", with the possibility of staying officers until the fifty-eighth year of their age with their own will. It settles old cases, which had to do with staff injustices, with amendments that were added and arising during the dialogue and which regulate several issues of the Ministry of National Defence. Before I enter the case of the bill, however, you will allow me - because it has been said enough today, but also in the past few days - to talk about the famous supply of F-16 aircraft, because I did not expect there to be such a great misunderstanding, although I have seen it through the press and by specific journalists that they are trying to create a climate that has nothing to do with reality. I spoke earlier about the article by Ilias Kanelli, which speaks of signing an agreement in the United States, of overrated, as reflected in the debate in the House, upgrading the aircraft and then saying about the hopeful ones who were wearing a uniform. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point the Minister of National Defence - President of the Independent Greeks Mr Panos Kammenos presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The Golden Dawn, Mr. Kanellis, the particular press band have these kinds of views. Unfortunately, however, I have seen that some colleagues are also following the newspaper headlines, which are of course caused by those who have some interests in relation to the agreement.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u306	Is there a deal?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u307	So to be clear, there's no deal. Of course there's no deal. Mr Kumucako, you are not a member of the Committee on Equipment and I understand that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u308	I hear what you're saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u309	All right, here's what I'm saying. Mr Kumucako, on 20 September your New Democracy colleagues, who are members of the Committee on Equipment, were at a classified meeting. And we made it confidential, without even the existence of a telephone, in order to share information, which is confidential and is relevant to the armaments of the country. So there it has been made clear - and I am now officially making it clear here in the House - that what is in place is a Letter of Request, an LOR, which is addressed to the US Government and in which, in the context of a transnational agreement, that is to say, an agreement in which there are no intermediaries, we are asking to give us a price for upgrading the fleet or part of the fleet of F-16 that we have. At the same time, another letter to the US Government has left which asks to give us availability and prices for a new aircraft, as is, in particular, requested in the letter - the F -35 aircraft. In response to the letter from the request we have made, we have had a first information from the American side that they will respond to us by Loa and by letter, which will, of course, come to the Committee on Equipment, as I was bound to do - on 3 November - where the Americans will tell us prices and precise descriptions of the update of either the F16 aircraft of type Block 50, the F16 aircraft of type Block 52 plus and the F16 of type Block 52 Plus Advance. The whole of the aircraft requested by the Letter of Request were a hundred and twenty-three aircraft for which the American side, as planned for our reply by the company, asked for approval by Congress for all aircraft in order to proceed to a negotiation. The approval requested by Congress for the total of one hundred and twenty-three aircraft, namely Block 30 and Block 50 and Block 52 plus and Block 52 Plus Advance, amounts to EUR 2.4 billion. However, as I have made clear in the Committee on the Equipment of Parliament at its previous meeting of 20 September, our own possibilities in the context of the implementation of the approved budget cannot exceed $100 million a year and a maximam at $1,1 billion. In fact, I hadn't made it clear if it was euros or dollars. I'm telling you, the dollars are what we're talking about right now. So, in the transition to America, we discussed the issue of the upgrading of the F-16 and said that we are expecting the LOA, the Americans' response to the upgrading of aircraft. On the part of President Trump, it has been announced that the US Government is happy to approve the whole, that is to say, the maximum upgrade of twenty-three aircraft and that all possible upgrades will be up to 2.4 billion, which, of course, we are never going to reach, because neither these economic possibilities nor these needs. It is a much more useful part of this money, if any, being given for a new aircraft. As far as the talks in the United States are concerned, the Prime Minister will inform you himself. We didn't go there to deal for the F-16. We went there so that the Prime Minister would first meet Greek expatriates, entrepreneurs, funds, people who come to invest in Greece, people who have invested in Greece. The success of the trip can be said to be acceptable to everyone. Not from us, from SYRIZA, from the Independent Greeks, but from the American Ambassador himself. Foreign financial magazines reported interest in investment in Greece. There were meetings, beyond President Trump, with the Vice-President of the United States, Mr Penns, and it was concluded that the mission that will come for the Thessaloniki Exhibition, which will be dedicated to the United States - this year it was in China, last year it will be too large to come to many American companies that are interested in investing in Greece. In addition to investment, cooperation at geostrategic level, as you say, has been discussed. Of course the country's position is very upgraded. Greece is now a pillar of stability in the wider region, linked to bilateral relations to the south with Israel, with Egypt, with Jordan, with the Arab Emirates, to the north with Bulgaria, with Romania, with Serbia. The Prime Minister discussed - and also at meetings at the level of staff - the US synergies and investment and the interest in energy, pipelines, gas and oil mining issues. Exxon has formally submitted requests to participate in all of this. This whole package of discussions is positive for our country, not Alexis Tsipras or for that government. It's for Greece. It is for the first time that a Greek government has been accepted under such conditions since 1994 that Andreas Papandreou had visited the United States and opened Blair House for the entire Greek expedition. I can tell you that they were positive and the Democrats, we have seen Congress, we have seen the Senators, we have seen the committee dealing with the funding of countries, and we have told them that here, if they really believe - which they do - that the country must be a pillar of stability, we do not have great financial means and we are calling for the country to be strengthened and from armament, which is often available as military aid. All this, however, has started a strand of negotiations and discussions, with nothing being foreseeable. And we'll start with offering to upgrade the F-16s, with a government commitment that it'll be the 1.1 billion maxims. I tell you that the specifics, which I believe will eventually be done, will be under 700-800 million.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u310	Euro? You're not saying that now?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u311	Yes, euros.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u312	Under 700-800m euros? So, $1 billion.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u313	I think 1,1 billion...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u314	Dollars.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u315	We said euros here. That's what I said. So I'm telling you, he won't get over $1.1 billion, and I think he'll be even smaller.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u316	So $1,1 billion. We need to know where the coil is.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u317	But I'm...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u318	How many aircraft are we talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u319	I won't tell you now. By the time I negotiate, I won't tell you. Mr. Georgiadis, I'll just tell you something...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u320	If it's for an aircraft, it's expensive, if it's...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u321	Mr. Georgiadis, you'll get the floor later anyway. Here you go, Mr. Kammenos, go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u322	Mr. Georgiadis, I'll tell you just one clue. The prices given have a great deal to do with the state being given. That is, Korea's prices with Bahrain's prices, if you see them - you get on the internet, they're open offers - they're a quarter. It is of great importance what will come in through specific things that I will not tell you now. I'll tell you in the Arms Committee. You are all welcome to come to the Ministry to discuss them, but to go out publicly and say right now and listen to us and to what we get, I'm not going to say it. We have confidence in staffing. The Minister is not negotiating, the staff are negotiating. We, as a political authority, tell them that this is the wall and from there on, the staff are deciding. I would like to assure you, however, that all the journey is unfair to enter under a sign that some, who probably have interests having access to and profits from such a contract, have begun to make. I'll tell you the other thing. There are many things about compensatory benefits and so on. There are no substantial compensatory benefits that have existed in the past. What are we asking? What have we so far asked to do as an offer to the possibility of so-called compensatory benefits? It is, first of all, the operation of the OAB, that is, the greatest task of being done in the Greek Defence Industry, the materials to be taken by Greek private companies and beyond, if it is compensatory, could be something, such as what we have already requested, that is, the Sikorsky engines of the Hellenic Navy, represented by the same company that has made the offer to upgrade F16. I'll tell you that neither will the company making the upgrade of the F16 be given. We make a transnational deal with America. Tomorrow America can say that it considers that upgrading F16, since it is a transnational agreement, will make it by another company or by other companies.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u323	I would like to ask the President-in-Office of the Council
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u324	Lockheed is the one we have asked for. So I'm telling you there was an offer from Boeing to make the upgrade. That's not our choice. That is what the Americans will choose and send us the bids, which is why the process is being done through the governments. That is why it is 'G to G Agreement'. And, of course, there will be no compensatory training in Korea, or things that were undermining. If you want my personal opinion too, if the price is to fall too low and save a lot of money, which we certainly need, there is not even a compensatory one. In other words, if we consider that Sikorsky can be made at cheaper prices, there is no one. That's the truth and I'm closing up with the F-16 thing that's heard a lot of things. Ladies and gentlemen, what we have said in the Committee on Equipment is true and only what is official. When the LOA arrives in the first days of November, the committee and you will be aware of all the texts that are in existence and will be codecision on the recommendation of the staff. This will be the procedure under the law. No deal has been made nor have we spoken under the tables nor are we going to do anything at the expense of the country. As far as the bill is concerned, I have heard many comments on the internal affairs issue. I would therefore like to make it clear first of all as regards what Mr Loverdos said, that the independent authority of ΕΛΤΕ, ΕΛΟΕΛ and Επιτροτής, such as the friend of ours, who also sent us a letter, gave not only assent, but also congratulations on the establishment of the body, by letters from them. The fact that the Legal Service of Parliament has not commented on the articles does not mean that it disagrees, but on the contrary that it agrees. Where the Scientific Committee of the Parliament disagrees, it makes the remarks. As far as the service is concerned, I will tell you that if you read Article 12(5)(b) in conjunction with Article 11(5) of the second subparagraph, the Home Affairs Affairs Department is supervised by the Prosecutor of the Review and cooperates with the Prosecutors. In accordance with Article 12(5)(b) until the Presidential Decree is adopted, he shall carry out the checks under the supervision of the military prosecutor. I say that because...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u325	Now you put that on?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u326	If you read it, you'll see. It's in front of you. Read it. He says he is directly responsible to the Minister for his creation. I'll tell you why. According to Law 2713/1999, the Police Home Office is responsible for the Chief of Greek Police. If we did the same, and he was in charge of the Chief of HNDGS, he couldn't control the Ministry's services. To me, the main agency that I am interested in controlling, in addition to others, is the Directorate-General for Equipment. So the Directorate-General for Equipment is outside the organizational chart of the Chief of HNDGS. It belongs to the Ministry. So the first thing I said to them, when it became the Home Office, was "Children, first you will check my office". They must be able to control the Minister himself. The fact that it belongs to the Minister has nothing to do with his control and supervision, which the Minister does not have, but has it directly, as I have said, by the military prosecutor. This is because it ensures its independence and controls the services of the Ministry. Here, in fact, I have information from the Legal Intelligence Bank to see the difference that the Home Office has. [[At this point, the Minister of National Defence - President of the Independent Greeks Mr Panos Kammenos presents for the record the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I would like to tell you, he has done an excellent job. So far, ten cases from the Directorate-General for Arms, the existing Internal Affairs Service has taken them to the prosecution of corruption. And at the prosecutor's office of corruption, nine officers from the Internal Affairs Service are together with the prosecutor of corruption and help deal with the files of the old armaments. So all the cases were opened and the investigation went on and half the arms dealers with bracelets circulated, because if the officers of the Home Office, who also know the case, could not have access directly to the Directorate-General for Arms, we could not proceed with cases, which have been stuck in the corruption prosecutor's office for decades. I'll tell you the other one. In order to help the work of the corruption prosecutor, as people didn't even have a computer, we made sure we bought computers and servers to give them to do their job. Also, whenever qualified personnel are needed, the Ministry of National Defence with the Internal Affairs Service provides experts. He cannot know, for example, a armored or an aircraft what specific characteristics one of the other parts may have. That is why it is the Internal Affairs Service. I want you to be sure that the Home Office will be in favour of transparency at the Ministry of National Defence.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u327	Minister, I beg your pardon, but you need to close down.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u328	Excuse me, Mr. President. I'll be done in three minutes. I would also like to say to you that I listened carefully to the colleagues who referred to the matter of the decision of the Council of State, the pensions and the rest. I would first like to say that as far as the liabilities - that is, the non-residents and the others - are concerned within the year. And at the border, don't worry, as we give it all, we give it away. In 2013 and 2014, they were not given. And they were never given. So far they have been properly given. They'll be given even more normal. They're going into the payroll. In that I can assure you that we have already anticipated the single ones that can't afford to give them, to give them to us from the Ministry of National Defence and to take them. We didn't hand them over to the Ministry of Labour. The Samara - Venizelou government delivered them. I wish we had the pensions. Now, as far as who are against the conventions is concerned, Mr Kurchos is concerned. He tried to nail us into the European Union because we did not get Eurofighter and Mirage. I think that getting Mr Kurcho is not bad, it will do you good. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like you to tell me about the 1990 amendment. It was tabled by Mr Karayannides, Mr Katsikis and Mrs Kozobol. I think we should get through it. They disagree with the staff, but I want to tell you this, so I'll be fine with what Mr. Kikilias said.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u329	What amendment are you talking about, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u330	For the '90s class.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u331	But there was one. Now is this another one?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u332	Oh, no. The one that was ministerial withdrew and filed with parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u333	For what?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u334	For you are aware that parliamentarians do not need to have a financial cost at the moment, which we have anticipated. If the amendment is ministerial, there is a need for a report from the General Accounting Office of the State. We've calculated the cost. It is presented as a parliamentarian. If it is supported by the other parties, it has greater political force. This amendment therefore repeals Article 4. This means that with this amendment, once we agree, Article 4 of the bill is deleted, because it is on the same subject. Let me tell you that in the end, there is the difference from the staff, but to be fair, the headquarters and the heads of staff come from the police schools. There is usually a slight difference with the officials who refer to this article and the amendment. I think we should make it acceptable. Do you agree, ladies and gentlemen? Place yourself to get this over with, that's to say, move on faster.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u335	Can we intervene?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u336	Minister, have you finished?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u337	No, I'll be done in a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u338	To end then, Mr. Prussakis, the Minister. We'll give the floor if you want to clarify the question. We shall give the floor, Mr Prussakis, if you like, to the rapporteurs. Let the Minister finish asking any questions. We should take it that way. I don't think there's any objection to that. Minister, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u339	Now, as far as the issue of the antiquity of the officers of the various categories is concerned, you are right. So here we asked the OHIM to review the issue of the antiquity of the officers of the various categories. We expect his suggestion at the age of 31 to consider the question of redefining antiquity or not. That's what I wanted to mention on the matter of the bill. Let me tell you that the ministerial amendments have been accepted. Parliament's amendments were accepted. It's changing article 4, as we said. In fact, I would like to say to the House that we also accept the amendment supported by Mr Toskas, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u340	What amendment are you referring to, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u341	I am talking about Mr Toska's amendment. It is the amendment with a general number of 1309 and a special number of 75, 23 October. I would like to say that there is also an issue which is unfair and which concerns the police officers of the parties. The policemen who are in the parties were getting a very small allowance for the extra hours they did. So a law that interrupted it came out and even retrospectively asks them to bring the money back for some years. It's unfair.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u342	What kind of allowance are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u343	For an allowance they get in the parties.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u344	You're not accurate. Allow me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u345	You're welcome. It's not about me. It's Mr. Toska's, I just want to tell you...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u346	I want the floor for purely practical reasons, however, so that things are not said in this House because the parties are charged with things.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u347	No, it's not the parties' fault.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u348	This was taken by the policemen of the ministers and the ministries, not the parties.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u349	They took it...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u350	Not the parties.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u351	No, I'm talking about parties.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u352	Not the parties, Minister. Ask those cops outside. They didn't get the allowance, so they could be asked backwards now. We've examined it since we found out that...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u353	Mrs. Kanelli, I'll give it to you. It's not a matter now. That is why we have tabled a motion for a resolution on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the However, they are the parties' policemen who have been seconded to the parties and are asking them to return money retrospectively. Anyway, he didn't come.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u354	The policemen of the parties don't take it, I tell you, only the ministries. And if you'll excuse me, as I did a...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u355	They're a hundred people. They're a hundred policemen. Anyway, Mr. Toskas will bring it. We should not be dealing with this House right now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u356	Mr. Toskas, Minister, has to explain it, though. Come here and explain it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u357	He didn't bring it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u358	Oh, he didn't bring it. Good. Mr. Georgiadis, because Mr. Prussakis asked the floor to ask him some questions, would you please give him your turn?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u359	For the amendment, of course. Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u360	You asked for something, Mr. Prisoner. I promised you that you would take the floor after the Minister, to ask some questions. I would ask you very briefly, however, because there are speakers and Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u361	Mr President, there has been a great deal of discussion in relation to the 1990 order of Air Force officers. The first time that the debate on the draft law on Article 4, now tabled as an amendment, the New Democracy has had and has had the permanent place of membership of these officials in 1990 to n. 2439, as were equivalent to the '88 and '89 classes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u362	That's what we did.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u363	We welcome the accession of all parties and the government itself to the amendment tabled by the two parties SYRIZA - ANEL. So we say 'yes' to this amendment, which has now been tabled and accepted, because it was the first New Democracy to take this position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u364	Good, Mr. Prisoner.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u365	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u366	Mrs. Canelle, you have asked for the floor too. I'd only beg you strictly for a minute. Mrs. Canelle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u367	Mr President, I would like to speak for less than a minute. I think you'll understand me. First of all, with Elijah Kanelli, because we have the same name, I have no ideological, blood, marital or other kinship to clarify it. Please, too much for something. Attacks by the Step of the House are being arrested by journalists or on one or two, with a forty-eight strike, which is on the way to their bread and without funds, show a lack of sensitivity. You know what? Journalists when talking about political persons speak of the elected, already exposed to the Greek people’s crisis. The use of the parliamentary step in order to "false" the journalists, believe me either with regard to Mr. State, or with regard to Mr. Prestige, or with regard to Mrs. Kanellis - may I say another ten names to confuse this thing - is, in my view, a 40-hour strike, which is not even here for colleagues to be able to answer, please...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u368	There are some here.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u369	No, I'm not talking, he might be a striker. Please, please, we'll be a little careful. Believe me, it's worth it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u370	Good. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative Mr Georgiadis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u371	Mr President, how will the process go next? Congressman, Parliamentary?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u372	I'll answer you right away. We have been in the process of positioning the parliamentary representatives. After Mr. Georgiadis, Mr. Theocharopoulos will talk, then Mr. Pafilis, then Mr. Megamomustakas and we will continue the catalogue. There have been six speakers left.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u373	After the parliamentary representatives, will the speakers speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u374	Finally, the rapporteurs will have the floor for two - three minutes - time will be decided - to close.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u375	Members must also speak in the intervening period.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u376	We won't blame the MPs. Don't be afraid, the MPs will also speak. Here, Mr. Georgiadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u377	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, I should like to say what Mrs Canelley said. The nominal reference to Ilias Canelle, Minister, was completely unacceptable. I am generally critical of Mr Canellis, and my political positions differ from those I see in his articles. However, Mr Ilias Canelle's identification with the Golden Dawn, Minister, was completely incomprehensible and I would say provocative. Not to like Mr. Canelle or anyone else is your right. Doing such a provocation in the House, no. On the substance of the matter and the disagreement there have been, I would say that the hopeless did not wear a uniform. Let's be clear about this. Hopeful ones in the Monastery weren't wearing a uniform. The fact that they were not wearing a uniform, however, Minister, does not justify you not having made a single announcement. And that they weren't wearing a uniform, doesn't justify not going to 401. They remained hopeless and unsuited and had to feel their Minister next door. So that's why you're accountable. And you are also double accountable for this reason, which I do not want to see our attention dispersed. On Monday we had the debate in committee, the second reading of the bill. You didn't show up. It was only Mr. Vitch who showed up. Immediately afterwards, at 6 p.m., in the debate on topical and urgent questions, the question was to be discussed by the Secretary of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, Mr. Kostas Tsiara, on the well-known case with casino and money and how they were spent and what you said. The services of the House informed Mr. Tsiara that you had to postpone the question, where it was not discussed, on the grounds that you were not on a trip. And so the question of the Secretary of the Parliamentary Group has not been discussed for the second time, it has been postponed and re-issued for the third time, because you will be forced to come to Parliament to talk about the casino issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u378	I've sued you for that too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u379	Make me ten lawsuits, if you want me to, I'll give you another one, if you do. But I'm coming back. You'll come to the House. Leave the lawsuit. The lawsuit to get her and go to court. But now we're going to the House. You had a question from Mr. Chiara. You have falsely informed the House that you will be absent abroad. And I say 'falsely', because one hour later we were together at 'Palace' at Mrs Bruni's concert. And I don't understand...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u380	The American Minister for Foreign Affairs I had to meet. You're a liar too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u381	Don't interrupt me. How can the Minister refrain from coming to the House and officially declare that he is missing on a journey and in an hour after being in the PALAS? Mr President, I refer to you, to inform Mr. Voutiss of this. It is unacceptable and incomprehensible that the Minister should hide from Parliament, not to give an explanation of the money spent in London and where they have been spent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u382	Mr President, as chairman of the committee, the Minister never...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u383	Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u384	I didn't say about the committee, Mr. Dozena. You're badly thrown away. Mr Chiara's question concerns parliamentary scrutiny. You're badly thrown away. The Minister knows. He's not talking. He knows very well why the question was postponed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u385	I had a government meeting with the US Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u386	Next time you're appointed to be here, Minister, and not to be afraid of the House...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u387	Go get a piece of money from Mr. Marinakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u388	Because the last time you were here, you also submitted a piece of paper to me and did it in style: "For Mr. Georgiadis...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u389	Go for the dividend from Piraeus.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u390	...I'm filing it for the Minutes. Then I paid my credit card." And as it turns out to be afterward, it was Halima's fairy tales and you misled the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u391	Take for the dividend from Piraeus. You should go with your wife.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u392	Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u393	Pireas, like what you mean, someone else has taken, who was visiting Mr. Marinakis' office. You and your wife, Minister. So, not to me. Such provocations to me don't happen. Another was there, and his wife was there. You and your wife in particular. Okay?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u394	Well, I never do. You guys with yours...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u395	Minister, nothing of what you're saying is recorded.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u396	And Mr. Kurtakis, you saw him in his office, before the 1912 elections, with your then economic director. So leave that, Mr. Cammene.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u397	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u398	Let it go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u399	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u400	Please! Mr. Georgiadis, continue. Do not address the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u401	The substance remains. You came to the House, you filed a false paper, then turned out to be false. The Secretary of our parliamentary group calls on you to give explanations and you are constantly lacking with excuses from the House. Whatever you have to say, instead of interrupting me, come and tell the House, the Greek people in the face and leave me the provocations. The ones where it takes you. And now we're going to the major for the Armed Forces. "Phonos Kammenos, 31-1-2015", one week after the election victory of "first time left". Burnt: "Immediately payment of the retrospectives to the indictments". And I read the article, what Mr. Kammenos says in his interview: "To understand the sizes, the 60 million for the active forces involved in the implementation of the retrospective decision of the Council of State is 50% of what Mr Samaras gave with an amendment to the Congregation of Music," said the President of the Independent Greeks. Note that Samara's amendment to the Congregation of Music, which says in this interview, made it a law of the state the SYRIZA Government immediately afterwards. I say it to remember. It comes at the end of 2015 - Minister, I would like your attention here - and Mr Kammenos says this. We are now talking about December 2015 - Minister, to sue me, and so please, very much - from the Holy Step of the Greek Parliament to the members of the Armed Forces: "As far as the remuneration side is concerned, 50% of the paid by the Council of State retroactively." That was paid by the Samara government, not by your decision.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u402	I've never been paid!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u403	Then by law of the Samara government this money was paid. Here's how it continues, Mr. Katsiki, that you were thrown away: "And the other 50%..." - We are talking about December 2015 - "...responsible to an account in order to sign the Ministry of Finance and to be granted as soon as the issue is settled with the Ministry of Civil Protection and the Ministry of Trade Shipping". He saw Panos Kammenos in December 2015. And now, Minister, do me two sues, if you want! We are at the end of 2017. Have you given, Minister, the retrospectives? Oh, no! You had the courage to say the same: "The Government of Samara - Venizelos..." - says - "...transfer the pensions from the Ministry of Defence to the Ministry of Labour". Didn't you say that before, Minister, it was the Samara Government's fault? Yes, sir. Aren't you telling me: do you have the parliamentary majority in here? Could you take any law of the Samara government and change it? Is the parliamentary majority of the Government based on the votes of the Independent Greeks? You're not just a Minister of National Defence, you're a co-pilot. So if you do not like the law of the Samara - Venizelos Government that has pensions in the Ministry of Labour, as you said before, who prevents you, Minister of the National Defence of Greece, from coming here and changing the law and saving pensions? Let me tell you who prevents you: Your love for the chair prevents you, because if you do so and Tsipras does not discipline, you will have to drop the government. So don't tell this room again what the Samara-Venizelo Government has done. The Samara - Venizelou government was judged. Now there is a new parliamentary majority in Parliament. Any law you don't like, you change it. It was nerved what you did before. Of course, it is courageous to mock the Armed Forces by not paying them the money you owe them and let Mr Vernardakis promise a billion dollars. Whose money, Mr. Katsiki? From the money you owe to the officers of the Armed Forces, because what you promised them...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u404	Of what you cut and we're paying! You didn't even give them one euro!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u405	You're welcome, Mr. Katsiki. Mr. Georgiades, don't mention names.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u406	As for what you promised them and I read them here, instead of giving them, you're already mocking them in their faces.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u407	We're giving it away!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u408	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u409	Please let the Minister of National Defense tell us and not keep an eye on it, but note it, because it's a parliament. Note what he will do with the retrospectives, when he will give them, and if he intends to give them, as he has committed himself to a series of interviews, to a series of statements in the House in his election series. Otherwise, if he doesn't answer when he will, and if he just let time pass without giving people the money that the court has indicted them and which he himself personally and Mr. Tsipras promised them, he's a common liar and let me have a third lawsuit now. Now we're going to the F-16 to close the syndicate. Here, Minister, you have set a cubit that I want to mark from the Step so that we can all be informed about. You said that the money you will spend will not be more than EUR 700 to 800 million, or $1,1 billion maxim. So if you bring us a decision with over $1,1 billion maxim, you'll have fallen out on your calculations. Because yesterday at 'ANT1', Mr Papadakis, you were saying about 1,1 billion euros and Mr Vitsas at 'SKAI' said about 1,1 billion euros, so 1.5 billion dollars. Now, when you tell the truth and when you lie, no one knows. We'll see. But there's still something to be answered and there's something else: how many planes will be worth that money? Seven hundred million people say nothing. If it is seven hundred million for thirty planes, for example, it is expensive. If it's seven hundred million for eighty planes, it's a very good price. So it's not enough to tell us the price, the money you're going to spend. You're gonna have to tell us how many aircraft that corresponds to that money, and what aircraft you're going to do, because there's one suspect that you're finally going to do less than eighty-eighty-eighty. You will go further down to show as a supposed success the lowest amount. And, of course, I should like to say once again that the New Democracy is certainly in favour of upgrading the F16 fleet. It has nothing to do with the purchase of a new 5th generation aircraft, if and if conditions allow it, and if we decide to buy it, with the upgrading of a fleet that we already have and which, if not upgraded, will simply lose in value and combat capacity. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Therefore, yes, the upgrading must be done, but in terms of transparency. This is the major, with transparency and not with involved friends' companies in the compensatory and employment sectors in Greece. We are now going to the last issue of union, and I am referring to Article 27. After the great pressure in committee, where all the members of the committee witnessed this shocking image of Mr Tsukarakis, attacking his colleagues under the designation 'Rokemon' and all the others he said, which are shameful for the history of the Armed Forces, but also for the history of the House, Mr President of the committee - here you had to intervene...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u410	They both did it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u411	No, sir! Mr Rutas "Pokemon" never said Mr Tsukarakis. Mr Tsukarakis said 'Pokemon' to others. You're making a mistake!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u412	Both of you. You yelled, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u413	There was no insulting designation to Mr Tsukarakis on the other hand. He said it himself without interrupting him. And you let an officer say in this House his colleagues 'Rokemon'. Unacceptable image! So, after the pressure, you have brought a change in this article today - let us say so. The change that has arisen, Mr Minister, is totally pretextful. It is a pretext, because if you leave it and vote without the dimension that I will now tell you, SYRIZA colleagues, what will happen tomorrow morning will be the two conflicting federations, the WTO and the POMENS, to run to see who will be able to adapt its statute more quickly to the new provisions of the law that you are voting on and to perpetuate this conflict and the competition of the judiciary in the Armed Forces. Minister, the way in which you have brought what you have brought to the House and brought homogeneity to the Armed Forces is as follows: you must write to the law that, until the elections are held, a temporary board of directors will be set up which will have equal members from one federation and equal members from the other federation. This temporary board of directors will be equal to participation by both the WTO and the POMENS. I'm not taking the side of POMONS, I'm not saying that the syndication should be surrendered to POMENS. I say we bring the Armed Forces together. What should we do? To become, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, a temporary board of directors with an equal number of members from one federation, equal to the other federation, write this in the law, so that they do not run in the courts tomorrow and both compete with and swear all the others that we have seen in the committee. This temporary board of directors to hold the elections, as provided for in the article you have tabled today, in nine months' time and for the people who want to take part in this trade union to vote. And the one who chooses to vote, he will eventually take the Federation leadership. If you do not do what I say now and vote for the article in the way you have written it, Minister, you have no doubt that you will personally bear responsibility for an image of conflict and division in the Armed Forces of the country. And what you tear away from us at times about how much you love the Armed Forces, will not be proved in practice, because thanks to your deliberate omission, all this fuss that we have seen will perpetuate. So I call - and I close Mr President - and my colleagues in SYRIZA tell them that there is nothing more democratic than that, than a federation with a temporary board of directors that will make the elections on an equal footing from both sides. In conclusion, I would like to make a reference to what Mrs Canelle and Mr Koutsubas said about the trip to America. I hear too many people say that Tsipras gets the agenda from New Democracy. This, ladies and gentlemen, is almost funny. The New Democracy did not discover the United States of America in 2017. From this sacred Step of the Greek Parliament, the national ruler Konstantinos Karamanlis, had said the famous "we belonged to the West", long before the Greek Radical Left and its ancestors understood it. Of course, it is extremely acidic that Mr Tsipras as the first Prime Minister of the Radical Left of Greece, who himself participated personally with almost all of your MPs in all the anti-American demonstrations over the last decades and ye all yelled at "the killers of the peoples, the Americans", go to the White House, ideologically join the positions of the New Democracy and have a problem with New Democracy. It's funny! But I have to tell you, gentlemen of SYRIZA, that I am a pro-American of my youths, who have not gone to any demonstration against the United States, and I have never called 'the killers of the peoples, the Americans', I say to you that I felt offended by Mr. Tsipras, not because he went to the White House - very well he did, that was what the Prime Minister of the country and we supported him - but from the image of a Tsipras to tell Trump that his way of looking evil can do everything for good or that the Greeks love America or that America's intervention force is necessary for the stability of the world. These, ladies and gentlemen, are things that no one has ever said in the past in this way. Excuse me, can you make another trip to America and what Chipras saw you do? And to balance it up the next day, what did he do? He sent you on a trip to the Macronese where, your terror, you had your fist raised. I'm scared of you! You raised the fists in the Macronese.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u414	Mr. Georgiadis, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u415	To write a user on twitter - commenting on Tsipra's English - "What's the name, guys, the Macronese in English? Long Island’. That's where the Tsipras of the White House was connected with what you're doing. Six months ago in the coffin of the Castle "Hasta la Victoria siempre", six months later Donald Trump "What a fantastic president you are!" And immediately afterwards, traveling to the Macronese. Well, you're really inconceivable ideologically, an ideological mosaic, real occult persecutors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u416	Mr President, I would like the floor!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u417	Before giving the floor to the next parliamentary representative, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House, thirty-one students and students and two educational sessions from the 1st Amalada General School (first Chamber). The House welcomes you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u418	Mr President, can I have the floor for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u419	Minister, what exactly do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u420	Mr President, in the Minutes for restoring the truth - and now I can only speak with some people here - the practice of the General Secretariat of the Government for postponing Monday. I was with the American State Secretary. And within the letter of the Secretary-General of the Government to the Greek Parliament, there is a description that, for Mr. Tsiara's question, Mr. Kammenos is in a government meeting, invoking a workload.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u421	All right, Minister, testify to the Minutes and whoever's interested can get it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u422	Others dated ‘selfie’ with arms dealers of the Eurofighter.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u423	Mr President, may I have the floor on staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u424	What do you want, Mr. Dozena?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u425	Mr. Georgiadis reported.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u426	Who did he report to? Your name didn't sound. It was heard 'Chairman of the committee'.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u427	Hey, who's the chairman of the committee?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u428	Now, if you'll excuse me, what's the staff? I give you the floor to prove what the staff is.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u429	Look at you, beyond the staff...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u430	Not beyond the staff. You're asking for the floor on staff. There is no general and vague intervention. You are asking for the floor on staff. You should expose why...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u431	I have an institutional position. I don't want to attack Mr. Georgiadis. That's not the point. I want a proper record of what happened to this committee. There was a wrong description. That's what I mean. Mr. Georgiadis is the national voice and I respect him because he's a good orator. I have no problem with Mr. Georgiadis. But I just want to say a word about the wrong description. Obviously there was an extremely difficult meeting in committee - I think. There have been attacks on both sides. The terms of Mr Georgiadis may have been used, but the other side also used other conditions. However, I do not think that this situation should continue in which Mr Georgiadis also threw too much oil into the fire and forced me to interrupt the meeting. We must stop building this common federation, bring them together and move on. I think this is important and I call it the chairman of the committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u432	Good, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Theocharopoulos, come to Stepma, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u433	Mr President, can I have the floor for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u434	What do you want now, Mr. Georgiadis? What about now?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u435	Now my colleague, Mr President, has referred to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u436	But what did he refer to you? It gave an explanation of what happened in the committee and a proposal on the basis of what was said about the military trade union.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u437	Just a minute, Mr President. Now we're wasting time for a minute! To Mr Kammenos: You do not need to read me papers on the workload you have referred to. All you need to do is to tell the House that on the next date set by Mr Chiara's question you will be present. That is enough, Minister, and you will not be permanently fleeing. If what you said, you can only force the government to do what I told you before. Because if we don't do what I told you, tomorrow they'll fight, as you saw them in the committee. The committee has not been interrupted. You said before I took the floor that you were in a hurry to get down to vote, if you remember. You asked me, in fact, to be very brief. So don't say break-up because Baxvanis took it and made things up. Okay?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u438	That's your explanation. There's no such thing. The meeting has been interrupted.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u439	Good, Mr. Georgiadis. Here, Mr. Theocharopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u440	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today a bill from the Ministry of National Defence, but at a time when the absence of the Prime Minister's visit to the United States would seem to create many and intense waves on critical national defence issues rather than unfairly. In recent days it has indeed monopolized the debate within and outside Parliament on the upgrading of F-16 fighter aircraft. Here we are confronted with contradictory statements, denials, vagueness and controversy. Minister, we started talking about this, if you remember well, in February 2017 here in plenary. In addition to the intense debate we had, we spoke with the first elements of the case at that time for the first time. I am a member of the Committee on Equipment, which is why we discussed again in September 2017. That is why I am telling you that the confusion came from your statements too, and I will explain why. This is a confusion which also exists with the letter to which you referred and with regard to prices - costs and compensatory costs. This confusion is exacerbated not only by you, but also by other members of the Ministerial Council, but also by Members. Today, then, we have to inform the Greek people, not just us here, but the Greek people about what they can and can be informed of. I think we have kept the subject of confidentiality in the Committee on Equipment, as far as possible. Everything we've said there is nothing at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u441	Absolutely, everyone!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u442	But modernising the equipment programmes is a national issue, and that is why I think we are dealing with it with the necessary responsibility. In February last year, therefore, with the timely question I submitted to you, I asked you to inform us immediately and validly about the planning of the supply of new equipment, because then we were informed again by reports that it is the Ministry's intention to modernise F-16 and to buy F-35. You then confirmed your intention, based on the letter you sent to the United States in February, and you committed yourself to informing you about the American side's responses and if you accept the proposal, the relevant sub-programmes will be activated. In this context, the Committee on Equipment will approve or reject. Of course, you did not give any answer, and in February I was talking about these programmes, when I said about EUR 1.7 billion to EUR 2 billion in relation to F-16 and the 80-100 million for each F-35. However, there was no substantial and complete information on the costs and the Equipment Committee on 20 September on the upgrading of F-16. We have not seen the American side's proposal. You replied then that the US proposal will be coming on 7 October.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u443	On November 2nd.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u444	Mr Vitsas told us yesterday that he had changed and that proposal would come 2 to 3 November. So this process has gone back too. So you said, and you made a commitment that once the committee responded, we will discuss it. You replied to the committee that the EUR 1.7 billion to EUR 2 billion I mentioned is forbidden and that we cannot respond to that cost. While you said this to the committee in the parliamentary control process, we received, in the next few days, on 5 October, a written reply that you replied that the cost of the upgrading programme was EUR 1,5 billion to EUR 2 billion. I read here the answer, which is signed by you: "The upgraded aircraft will depend on the cost of a programme with estimated costs of EUR 1.5 to EUR 2 billion." You can understand that there is a confusion. How many aircraft? For everything? Half? What's going to happen in the end?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u445	Everything. It's the planes. Of course it's all.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u446	It doesn't specifically say how much you've asked for. We, Minister, do not question the need for the credibility of the Greek Armed Forces and a strong country in terms of security and defence. But we are also clear about this: a white check will not give anyone to upgrade F-16, without having the specific cost based on the agreement that you have made or will make. You did not give us any specific figures, and that is why in the Committee on Armaments I voted'residents' on behalf of the Democratic Integration, as Potami did, unlike New Democracy at the time when he voted 'yes', such as SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks. So you prolonged the briefing for later. We also heard you on a television station say incorrectly, apart from the other things you say, that the Democratic Partnership at some point with the New Democracy has voted to move on to upgrading. Then, I see, you've taken it back, you've never used it before. You must have been informed or remembered exactly what happened.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u447	You said that. The New Democracy voted 'yes' and you have reservations.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u448	I'm 'the present'. DISY had voted for 'the present', as did the Potami. Well, to get the confusion out, I'm telling you exactly what had happened in relation to that Committee of Equipment. At the meeting with the Prime Minister, the President of the United States seems to have taken much, perhaps more than we can withstand as taxpayers. He got a commitment to an F-16 upgrade agreement for $2.4 billion for all aircraft, as Mr Trump said. That was the only thing I heard you say that you saw a lot of people in the United States, that you discussed a lot of issues. However, the only practical result we have heard from this meeting with figures - because by speaking to the debt that Greece has in the European governments, you understand that it has no practical effect - is Mr Trump's commitment to the $2.4 billion and that this will upgrade relations with Greece and, of course, to the workers in the United States. The worst thing, however, is that even this agreement, if it exists, is not clear. In other words, we do not have the clear information from the government of our country. The president of the United States referred to 2.4 billion. You have spoken of 1,1 billion roof, but you are not talking about aircraft today, without mentioning how many and what aircraft. So you're in the negotiation, and you understand that if $1,1 billion is involved in twenty aircraft, it's a huge sum. We cannot judge what you are referring to. I imagine that, when you have specific evidence, the Committee on Equipment will convene and approve it or reject it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u449	And he'll approve. He won't reject it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u450	So, early November, after November 2nd to 3rd, we expect the Committee on Equipment to be convened. You were the same night that you ran to say - if I may, with a turmoil, when you heard Mr Trump's statement about $2.4 billion - that it was $1.1 billion and the others involved in compensatory measures. Then you also took this back, to say that the ceiling that we can make will be EUR 1.1 billion. You understand that this confusion does not come from opposition or from the media. This confusion comes from the fact that there is no responsible information to the Greek people. In fact, we learn from reports and unfortunately from the President of the United States about specific figures. The question is what our country and Mr Tsipras have committed themselves to in the United States. You say there's no deal. What's he committed to? At least we could have been informed of that. Of course, in television interviews you have mentioned other issues, such as that it can decide to upgrade the fighters, but it can also be aided to Greece. In other words, there may also be additional aid to Greece. Now that's it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u451	As Mr. Kumoutsakos said. But we don't know that yet.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u452	This is where he wants specific information, because it is obviously a matter of vagueness. So we ignore what the total number of fighters is, how much of them, with what timetable they will be upgraded, how much exactly they will cost and when the programme for approval will finally be submitted to Parliament. One last thing: What about the F-35s? This has not been abandoned by what you told us in committee. Wait after 2 November the United States answer. So you may also come a new financial package, because you wait, you have not withdrawn it from what we have learned in committee, from what you have told us.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u453	And not just that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u454	Yes, sir! So you understand that since the Greeks and Greeks go through what they are going through, there is a case where the cost of raising too high, and that is why we want this specific information on all these issues. Furthermore, you have not told us about the upgrading, extension and long-term concession of the Souda base, which seems to be on the American agenda, what the Greek Government's position is, what the country's position is, namely, and what is happening on all these issues. The confusion and awkwardness of this serious issue must therefore not be allowed. Replies are required for all procurement procedures. We need an integrated plan for the armaments funds. It takes a concrete plan for how they are to be distributed. We need to be given the priorities of the Ministry of National Defence, so that we can judge. Because you can tell us today about F-16, tomorrow about F-35. You understand and you know that we do not have countless sums on all these issues. We need to see what priorities are. Of course, our position is that, in order to deal with any threat, it is not just a solution to the equipment programmes. For its strong deterrent there must be continuous monitoring, assessment of developments, adjustment of operational plans. Now, of course, what can I say about SYRIZA, the turn he made after Trump from the United States to the Macronissus. "From America and the common democratic principles and values we share...", said Mr. Tsipras after his meeting with Mr. Trump. He spoke of the common principles and values shared by Mr Trump! Then, we had "a tour of honor and memory on the martyrly Macronissos"! We're dizzy from your turn. It's not even been a day. We're dizzy. The citizens, the Greeks and the Greeks do not eat spoon. Communication bubbles are understood by citizens. There are cases where respect, reflection, personal awakening of everyone is the most important attitude of life. It is more important than a strong effort to identify, for communication, historical symbols of the Left and Democracy. We must not forget that. Minister, I shall refer to Rule 30. Mr. Kammenos left, but Mr. Vitsats is here to answer. I am talking about Mr Kammenos, because he was in committee when we discussed this particular issue, which is very serious in this bill, but, because of wider political developments, it has not been discussed. I am referring to the Convention on Compensatory Benefits with Raytheon, which we discussed in the Committee on Equipment in June. What was agreed at the time was that the convention should come as a bill as the least evil, as the least painful solution at the moment, in relation to international arbitration. So what we said when we were presented with all the evidence from the officials was to come and talk about it here, and that of course means nothing about the attitude we have in relation to the substance of the contract. We should see here whether this is a balanced contract that ensures the country or not. You are asking us to vote without having answered a number of questions we have raised. I have asked these questions in the Committee on Equipment and in the committee where the contract came today in plenary. We had mentioned at the time - I do not have the time to mention in detail now - the things that exist in Article 29 of the Convention - I do not mean the bill - which, in my view, is an epitome of the sense of non-balanced contract. You told us that the contract went and came over ten times in the negotiation for a year. I ask you, and I ask you, what points do you think the target was not achieved, which was the original goal of the Ministry? In a negotiation, not everything is achieved. You said so in the Committee on Equipment. What points have not been reached? We have specific questions. You have not answered us, you do not answer specific questions in relation to Article 30. We told you at that time, most of the opposition parties, that here we were better able to go to this solution, but to say clearly that this will not be a reproach for other cases. We agreed, I think, on this matter that there should be only one exception and no one else. Article 30 has several points in it. I shall refer, for example, to the report of the Scientific Office of the Parliament. After you have not answered our questions, at least answer the report of the Scientific Office of the Parliament. It says the report of the Scientific Service of the Parliament that Article 30(3) of the Bill designates the Minister of National Defence as a representative of the Greek State for the conclusion of the contract. However, the preamble to the draft contract states that the contract is signed by the Director-General of the Directorate-General for Defence Equipment as a representative of the Ministry of National Defence. Why did this change take place in relation to the preamble to the draft convention, the one mentioned in the report from the Scientific Office of the Parliament? To get through everything from the Minister of National Defence? The report by the Parliamentary Scientific Service for Article 18 also mentions you, as Mr Karras, a law-abiding law-abiding law-abiding, a little while ago, for all these problems that we can find in front of us when this article is passed today. Article 18 of the draft contract provides for criminal clauses against the supplier in an amount equal to 10% of any unfulfilled part of the obligations and in the event of discharging or late execution of the contract its payment entails the exemption of the supplier from all its obligations in respect of the contract. Article 23(13), as the report of the Scientific Office of the Parliament states, provides that the parties shall waive, in so far as they are not prohibited, any right of sovereign immunity in relation to the Convention. Will you give us specific answers to these? Mr President, I shall conclude. Thank you for your tolerance. On most issues of the bill, our special speaker, Mr Loverdes, has been mentioned specifically and in detail. On the subject of the 1990 order - I am referring to the change that has been proposed - we have said that we agree with this change in substance. As regards Article 27, you have been asked by most of the Greek Parliament to withdraw or, in any case, to improve. There are also specific improvements proposals, so that this issue can be resolved - they have been heard a little while ago - so that there is a balance so that what you want to create does not appear to be relations between dependence and control on such a crucial issue with regard to the military. I will not go into these articles, which have been discussed in detail. There are obvious gaps in long-term planning, rational planning, consistent execution and effective control. The fact is that, for Article 3 of the bill, Mr Kammenos said that it was a photographic layout. He admitted that it was a specific photographic layout. Furthermore, the Minister for National Defence, Mr Kammenos, said a moment ago that this arrangement for the 1990 order, in which we basically agree, does not bring it as a ministerial amendment, because it does not have the cost of the General Accounting, but brings it as a parliamentary amendment for this reason. I'm telling you the government's assumptions, which show how you legislate. Ladies and gentlemen, we in the Democratic Assent are not in the mood of sterile criticism. That is why we are making concrete proposals to you. We recognise the positives, we are trying to help to improve them further and correct errors or omissions. You don't respond, though. You don't get to know the public properly. There is confusion on all issues and there are unforeseen side effects this way across all the key organs of the country. That is the big problem, and that is what we will have to deal with at last, especially in the field of national defence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u455	We continue with the Parliamentary Representative of SYRIZA Mr Xydakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u456	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, we have a debate on a bill with which the Ministry of Defence arranges for certain regulations. This debate also triggers a debate - I believe - fruitful to some extent, to the extent that we want to hear and exchange views on other issues which concern both our political topicality and our fellow citizens. They have been heard a few words, I believe, and for the great adventure that journalists take in insurance. I think that within hours or days we will have some progress on the subject of the EDPS Fund. An initial framework has been agreed for contributions and resources and an extension of the insurance base with the entry of journalists on the Internet. There is an unfinished health situation. Unfortunately, this fund, the self-help fund, has been in the OECD toolbox and has been towed into a regulation that has left it a little late.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u457	Now you want to fly out the retired people and make it professionally close.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u458	No, it's not exactly like that. Let's wait a second. Reporters have a strike, so we can't be informed. We're being informed otherwise. I would agree with Mrs Canelles in her appeal not to be supported by the Stepping of the House by journalists, even if their word is unfavorable and their arguments are bad. We are here, so we are exposed to the public crisis. That's what we have to deal with. That's the luck of the one who comes out front. We have to have the stomach to bear even the bad talk. Let's finish it there. There's no journalist to answer. We are not even being followed by the monitors by our own parliamentary authors. To say two words about the big political issue of F-16 and the compensatory benefits. I think that throughout the history of markets over the last few decades, if my memory is not cheating on me, it is the second deal that goes to be closed with gonorrment to goernment agreement, what the Americans call foreign military sale. I mean, don't have adventurous dealers from Kassogi to the different names, shopping at certain prices and burdening you with dark money trips and sideways and adolescent salesmen. I think this deal is on a good path. It moves on a path of geopolitical and geostrategic upgrading of our country, with which, unfortunately, for the other peoples in the region, it favours our country, because it promotes it as a pillar of security and as a guarantor both to the East and to the guarantee of stability in the European sector of the Balkan peninsula, to our neighbours. He is a guarantor of the energy and trade routes in the Mediterranean, and all the major international partners are aware of this and are taking care of the position of Greece. It is a guarantee of stability both for the whole of the European Union and for the Balkan neighbours who look forward to us, despite acute expressions or some minor or even significant, but small-scale, folding of temperate behaviour. Greece is once again showing itself as a guarantee of security, peace and democracy. In very few countries, despite the multiple electoral cycles and the great historical adventure of bankruptcy, there is this social cohesion, social peace and the fact that, despite the injuries, faith in democracy and its citizens and institutions. As such a juncture, even this opportunity, the need to upgrade the country's defence capacity and an open - not easy, but open - period of opportunities for geostrategic upgrading, which would help us out of economic adventure, I think it should be very wise, with great seriousness, with insight into the future, to exploit any raisins that open up. I have the impression and am convinced that tomorrow in the question of Stavros Theodorakis, Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras will respond to what concerns both the political world and especially the Greek people and will guarantee in his own way the exemplary execution of this large market, which is of national importance, but it is also a symbolic message to the Greek people of how the great jobs are done, which, on the one hand, ensure, but also, faith in the institutions, faith in democracy, faith in transparency and the last aspect. Here, too, were heard in the Chamber and incidents, but mainly sarcasm, and on behalf of the Secretary of the KKE, Mr Koutsoubas, but also by other colleagues, about the visit of people of SYRIZA, of fans, members, friends and friends to Macronissos. I do not feel the need to apologize personally and collectively, representing the area of the refreshing left, the radical left, the 21st century left, which is trying to find platoon in a new historic period. I do not feel any need to apologize or sign any declaration of repentance, no statement of opinion. The attitudes and political behaviours are judged and controlled in history by the reasons and deeds, the attitude we stand towards society and the historical flow. People go to the Macronissos - as my father had taken me to Gyro, when I was fifteen years old - to pay tribute to the people who have sinned, to the people who broke up, to the people who were crushed, to the people who brought us with their blood, to sweat and to humiliate them in the Hellenic Republic of 2017. Only honour, respect and reflection are appropriate for what Hellenism has done in the 20th century and for the hard period of war, the Occupation, the Resistance, the bloody Civil War. They're the hardest tattoos, the seals on our shoe. No one is entitled to put forward titles of property, no one is entitled to make the honorer, to claim blood, struggles and sacrifices on their own. Younger generations feed on memory and reflection, and that is what we need to teach. There is no inquisitionist who weighs left and mindfulness. We are all judged before history. Furthermore, I will not answer any pigeon and "Greek seller" about whether we honor the memory and blood of the people who built this democracy that we were delivered. It may not be all, it may not be the one we dream about, but it is the one we honor, and we honor these ancestors, all the Greeks who fought conquerors, torturers and trespassers of democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u459	Parliamentary spokesman of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Pafilis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u460	I oppose temptation, but I'll tell you later. As far as the debate is concerned, I would like to say that, despite the statements made by the press, there will be conflicts, there will be a mess in Parliament in the debate on today's bill - because there is a visit to America and one and the other - what one can see by decrypting and cooling studying the meeting is that the meeting was mild and that there were some fires in order to maintain artificial acidification. For us that is expected. They're domestic fights. The native block, which is subordinate to imperialism and the capitalist system and includes the New Democracy, the PASOK, the Independent Greeks, the Central Association, etc. and the American-National Left - not the renewative - is fighting and even in a bidding fight for who is more with NATO, with imperialism and the United States of America. In whose name? The geopolitical upgrading and stability. Really? Where are we? Does anyone not understand the slaughter that is being done in the area for the sharing and redistribution of markets, wealthy sources, roads for the transport of energy and so on? Is anyone blind? Does he not know that large imperialist forces and others are colluding for the region's sharing? No one knows that the urban ranks of each country, those who have wealth in their hands, claim through this conflict who will get a bigger part? They know that very well. It's just a party that serves certain interests. Geopolitic upgrading and stability - as is projected - means promoting the interests of Greek capital by literally following - and I will prove it - the whole line of imperialism as a whole for intervention in the region, for the sharing of markets and finally for the slaughter of the people. This is the essence of this upgrade, because neither the Greek people nor the Turkish nor the Syrian nor the Kurdish nor many others have received, as we say, from this division. On the contrary. They have to give a lot of blood to this gigantic collision. The bill implements management interventions, regulations, updates to issues concerning the Armed Forces, so it is inevitable that the debate should be generalised, which cannot be fragmentary. We will not discuss whether it is good to be one or the other, but see in what political context the Armed Forces of our country are moving in as well as in relation to the news and strategies. We are therefore talking about regulating the issues of the personnel of the Armed Forces. I am not standing on economic issues, on what they get, and so on, because they are pulling what all the Greek people are, but we are saying in general. What are the Armed Forces to defend in the country? The territorial integrity and sovereignty of the country. But is this actually the case today? So, in Afghanistan, what are they defending? The country's borders? [[Noise in the Chamber]] If you want to cooperate, Minister, you can make it out of or a fight from the Step. I have no problem participating.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u461	I always hear you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u462	I say: What are they defending in Kosovo, for example? He wrote a newspaper - I will tell you now, because I remember that - that those who say our forces leave Kosovo should understand that Greek companies operating in the Balkans without military support cannot continue to invest. That's what they're defending. Which border and what domination of the country? What defends sixteen missions that exist, military and police, all over the world, not on the American continent, but throughout the region? The territorial integrity of the country or the interests of capital and NATO strategy and imperialists? Let's see, what is the structure of the Armed Forces serving? You young people, who have been working on the structure of the Armed Forces, have you ever dealt with how this structure has been formed and how this structure has escalated in recent years, especially since 1990? He serves, we say, natonic designs. Exaggeration? Yeah, one will say. But how? After 40% of each member country's Armed Forces, NATO says, they will be rapid intervention forces, which can be mobilised at any time through NATO. Is that true or not? Let the ministers answer, say no. So what interests? Dominance? The defence of the borders? Our sovereign rights? The third question, which is addressed to you again, is the naval left. What exactly is the service of the participation of the Greek Armed Forces, both in money and in spiritual material in all naval exercises? Tell us, who's the enemy? Let the Minister answer. Silence is gold! Who's the rival to the naval exercises that happen throughout the region? Are you going to name him? Are the Russians? Are the jihadists? They're gone, they're over now. Who are they? Are the Turks? But we're doing the exercise together. So the peoples and the government are yours, like the previous ones, consciously participate in these designs. You never told us - then say it! - Who are we going to deal with, where there are airplanes, the Mississippi Army, air, sea, ships, submarines, planes, two, five, ten naval countries? Against whom is it, Minister? Who's threatening us? Terror? Don't go crazy now. The giant army, the most powerful is supposed to be doing this kind of gymnastics against who? The simulations made before - I do not remember whether they are made by your own government - on air exercises with Israel what they had? Iran didn't? Except they didn't write it. Why? Do we have any problems with Iran as a country? Are our borders at risk? So you're stuck not until the neck, but with an invitation to all this strategy of imperialism. What strategy are you subjecting to? What are you signing at NATO Summits? Inform the people, especially the one who has a left conscience and progressive, but also other Greeks, who, regardless of what they vote, realize how dangerous the system is. So, what did you sign up to Warsaw when you went to the NATO summit and didn't make a cich to inform the Greek people? Didn't you agree to raise NATO's military forces to the border with Russia and so on? You didn't agree - and you never said that - and you signed, you ticked, and you talk about nuclear? You found Korea as a global danger. Not that we support their policy, but that's what humanity is at stake? Don't go crazy! So what did you sign up for? The fact that NATO is no longer bound by the 'non-first nuclear blow' that it will make a first nuclear blow. Isn't that what you signed? And that is why it also installs the so-called'missile' and in Romania and Poland, with naval support throughout the line that starts from Kaspya and goes down. Isn't that what you signed? Or did you not read what you signed under Warsaw's decision? What you signed in Brussels and Mr Tsipras came out in the name of the 'left' in many introductorys - shame, that is! - to say NATO is a security and peace factor for the entire region. Isn't that what you're signing? So what's changed? Did NATO become a philosopher? Has he stopped committing crimes against humanity? Has it stopped being the arm of imperialism? The armed arm, the armed dangerous one? The spearhead of defending the interests of big capital in all humanity, despite the contradictions and arguments they have with each other? Oh, no. It's still the same. You've changed. Not that you were different, you were just saying a little bumped up: you were talking about dismantling NATO, now 'living NATO!'. Isn't that what you say, Mr. Xydakis? What do you think? Outside NATO? Dissolve NATO? Oh, no. Enhance it, you say. This policy is implemented and then you tell us that we are blaming you for Macronissos. We don't blame you for going. The right of everyone and the obligation, if you want, some, is to go. We accuse you of going to America and saying that we have common values and common ideals with American imperialism, you sign and give them all up before they even ask for them, and you come here and make a communal diversion. That, in fact, is a limp. After all, those who suffered there were tortured, you say, to overthrow this system and not to serve it if you want to talk like that. If he wants to honor someone, he can honor him, when he continues this road, despite the difficulties, despite the rises, and not when he serves capitalist barbarism. Fourth theme: armaments. Let's see, where's the equipment from? From the needs of the Armed Forces to defend borders? Of course, too, but most of all of them. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Give me some time, Mr President, just like others. The vast majority of all systems have to be buttoned with navals? In the end, all the expenditure that has been incurred so far by the previous governments, but also by the next, by the NATO strategy as a whole, is determined by what weapons will you get? The structure of the Armed Forces and the Strategic dogma, defines what weapons you'll get. Another thing when you have a defensive policy and another when you do rapid intervention forces. It is not much different in general, but it is great in armaments and in a number of other things. Another provocative question: Can all the systems that are west, yes or no can block you tomorrow?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u463	They can.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u464	We have a start: what is being discussed in the Subcommittee on Defence is not said in public. But when we asked the question about S -300 that don't button... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Give me some time. Let another voice be heard. Everyone else says the same thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u465	Mr. Paphie, I didn't deprive you of your word.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u466	He's a comrade, that's what I'm saying. He's stricter.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u467	The bell's ringing because it's set.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u468	What was the answer that S-300s aren't buttoning? "Fortunately, they can't block us." I do not, of course, see that as negative. I ask you: isn't that where they are determined? They don't have natonic standards? What are they serving? Let's finally see who's telling the truth. I'll read it again. Text of US Defence Security Cooperation Office: "This proposed sale will contribute to the objectives," he is provocative, "American foreign policy and national security, helping to improve the security of an NATO ally, which is an essential partner of political stability and economic progress in Europe." The upgrade will support the capacity of the Hellenic Air Force. Be careful, because the Greek people are listening. What the Americans say and they don't lie about. To support NATO and remain interoperable with the US and NATO alliance. So that's the first objective. Secondly, what will help Greece? To develop businesses in the future by reducing the threat posed by who? Not the Turks, the enemies of the alliance. Where? Not in Greece, in the United States and the alliance. This is a monument. We'll take that poster off, see what kind of deal you signed. Do you want to go on further? Don't go on. So these equipment as a whole are within the naval standards and are being imposed. Of course, there's also the armaments dance. F-16 We, F-35 Turkey. F -35 we, F -50 Turkey. They sell themselves, and the Russians and the Americans, and they finally pay the people to slaughter one day for what interests? For theirs? Oh, no. But theirs have been "dripped" by all of them both in Turkey and in Europe and everywhere. For the interests of a handful of imperialists. Finally, some questions were raised by the Secretary-General of our party. Of course,'silence is gold' is true. But what did you agree about Souda? What is the service of expanding the operation? Are you going to answer us sometime? Who's he serving? Our national interests, the interests of the country or the strategies of the Americans and NATO? Secondly, questions were raised about the modernisation of the bases, about Araxos, about Alexandroupolis, which is essentially being converted into a base where helicopters are assembled. Is that ours? No, they're not ours, they're assembling, though. Do we have jobs too? We don't have one. Neither this nor the fig sheet. Other bases: Larissa. What do the Americans want now and to tour all the facilities? What's the fox asking for in the bazaar? Chickens, to eat them. You ask for bases and you are prepared to give them. Besides, you did. It has never happened since '74 to give a new base. Why don't you answer these questions? We're talking about nukes. Here these have been written, there is a document for special weapons. What are the special weapons? Slings? I don't think so.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u469	Every single type.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u470	Everywhere are the special weapons? Pistols? What is it?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u471	Well, it's not nuclear.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u472	What are the specials? Laser, space, what is it?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u473	It's not nuclear.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u474	But why don't you officially answer that's not it? You know, all these years, because we've had experience, we said Araxus has nuclear weapons. All the previous years and the New Democracy Government and PASOK disguised it and came out in 2011, I think, the United States of America and said they were gone. They speak straight, they are cynical, and they said "they also left the last nuclear from Araxos". Didn't he have a nuclear? I was in a missile unit, Mr. Karayannides, in Drama. Did he have nuclear or not? Since it was a nucleus unit with the eightteens. So, how's it going to be?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u475	We kicked them out.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u476	And yet, they were officially disgusting all this. Now, why don't you answer all these questions? Because you've got your nest dirty.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u477	But they're gone.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u478	Don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u479	But they left Drama for other reasons.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u480	But they're gone. The draminos know they're gone.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u481	All right, they're going somewhere else. You know why they left.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u482	Why?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u483	Because they didn't need to. Because socialism has been overturned in Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u484	Because it's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u485	Because it turned out historically that the Greek army "the danger from the North", where all the Armed Forces were, eventually, made us by an ally, with whom you are today. So I'm saying, and I'm going to finish: the golden people have the courage to talk about resistance and about "OH" on 28 October 1940. Who are they talking about and asking what the Communists did? In fact, another New Democracy official read that he said the Communists did not resist. Who are you telling? Our fathers were fighting two and three years, we have killed in our families, half of Greece. When we were students, we were told - such a nerve, that when you have wounded and killed - that they did not fight the Germans and the Italians, neither the EAM nor the ELAS and that these are a myth. But who do they speak? To introduce ourselves in this Chamber. What were their political ancestors? What did they do? To start with Metaxas. Did the communists ask to go to the front line? He didn't. Metaxas died, but the regime delivered them to the Germans. Yes or no?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u486	He handed them over to the Germans.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u487	He handed them over to the Germans and many were executed in the camps, sent out and so on.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u488	They also call them members of the New Democracy. It's not just Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u489	I said he said that as well as a New Democracy official. You don't get rid of it now. You have now made no statement of repentance, but we are talking about leaps in history! Thirdly, what is the basic slogan said by the golden people until they get caught and shove in some at the events? ‘Glory and honor to the hippies and tatars’. That's what they said, isn't it? So, what were the battalists? Who created them? The Germans hanged Greeks and others. What else were their political ancestors? They showed a 'patriot' hood. Bloc Red, Byron and all of Greece. And they are talking today about resistance and they also put a topic that they heard the song "Hroes, nostalgic mountains" and so on.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u490	It was for Grgopotamos.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u491	Everyone gives their interpretation. You want to cover yourself like this, we might be covered differently. The point is that they should get used to it. They can't dig it. PASOK did that. You've taken these lessons fine. Go and declare submission to imperialism. It is like what was called "to put a rebel now, to remember our past". But you should know that this is going to be very expensive. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u492	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u493	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u494	I'll be very brief. I accept Mr Theocharopoulos' point of view in Article 30(3). The Minister is not authorized. Authorized by the Chief of Equipment. Please change. I support the amendment with a general number of 1317 and a special 81, tabled by Mr Katsikis, for the Greek Ministry of Foreign Affairs. They put 12 rents on the rental guarantee for the real estate of the Armed Forces. Finally, I solemnly assure the House that there are no nuclear weapons in Greece, nor will we ever accept nuclear weapons in any military facility, whether it is ours or ours, or the alliance or any other. Nuclears in Greece are not accepted and I assure you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u495	Will you find out if they bring?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u496	Of course, we'll find out. Nothing enters Greece and nothing happens unless it is controlled by the Greek Armed Forces. That's why I assure you. I am saying this because I have heard from the Golden Dawn saying that after the cholera we have nuclear weapons, which overlap with the Aegean. There's none of this. Do not dismantle Crete with such rumors.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u497	When the junta had them, the Golden Dawn didn't talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u498	We're not a junta.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u499	Minister, the legislative improvement you have announced, the first point, would be very much to be tabled immediately, because the sitting will be closed in a little while so that Members can be informed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u500	He'll be filed immediately.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u501	Mr. Vitsa, have you asked for the floor for an amendment?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u502	Yes, I would like to support the parliamentary amendment number 1316 and a special 80. I have already announced this amendment. Instead of reaching the thirty-fifth year and after a 20-day term, they will be able to acquire the balance from the thirty-third year. That's the one thing. The second issue concerns the case where the Commander does not ratify the decision. It is planned that this will be done by means of a procedure. And the third, which I too admit is "photography", i.e. it concerns six people who have a disability of 100% or more...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u503	There is no more than 100% disability.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u504	Yes, there's the Armed Forces. People who have been in a state of war availability and have a disability of 100% and above are being promoted honorably to the next of the occupied grade. They're six people.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u505	All right, thanks to the Minister. Mr. Big-fashioned, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u506	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will begin my position with a little unrelated to this bill, a subject that has caused great tensions in the Greek and which, for me, is a shame for all of us, as former colleagues ask us retrospectively, when, as has been said many times today, the retrospectives to the Armed Forces have not been given, when pensions are cut, when the world, the Greek people lives everything that lives and is in this situation. And they, you think, don't have a picture of what's going on and they want retrospectives. If I'm wrong - and I'm not mistaken - Mr. Tsohatopoulos is asking for 250,000 euros. We don't have a sense of what's going on outside in society. These people don't know if they've got any gum and shame. This is something that has reached the world to the point of all of us politicians, the political system, most of them from here, not wanting to see them in front of it. This is a blow, which we have to deal with. The Centro Association has made it clear since the first day in the Greek Parliament, but also before, as it is a key position in the nine points that hereditaries' pensions should be abolished. Those who were in here, those who were mayors, district rulers and anyone else who would be present to receive a pension from his fund, like every Greek citizen. Being a politician is not a profession. It is a task that we have to deal with the Greek people, the people who elect us, it supports us. We have to fight for them. We should not only care about ourselves, about how we ensure our pensions, which is fat. Parliamentary and mayor's not a profession. We can't count on a career on it. It's what led the world to hate a big part of us. The next item, which most speakers have raised, is the issue of F-16, which has raised a great deal of discussion. This, for me, is wrong, because such matters should not be heard so much. We must play the ball down on such issues as diplomacy. Unfortunately, all this was caused by the lack of information on the rest of Parliament's parties from the two government parties. We have often proposed that there should be an intergroup meeting at the level of Heads of State or Government under the supervision of the President of the Republic. We haven't heard our request. Unfortunately, we have seen too much being said when at a time when Turkey continues its threats and has extensive views. He's already made an order for a hundred F-35. All the things that have happened should have been avoided. And it was very easy to avoid if there was information to the other parties. We can't be informed because we're not experts. We do not know the whole thing. I personally have particular sensitivity to these issues as a son of the military. However, all of us who are not experts cannot be informed by the attitudes of a journalist, who may simply want to fight you. And you might be right about that. The policy and planning of national defence and diplomacy should be long-standing, stable, intergroup and be serious. We can't walk like this. We agree to upgrade F-16. How much is that gonna be? What's the money? What have you asked for? Shouldn't you take the rest of the opinion? You tell us that we will give up $1.1 billion, about 800 million euros. How many planes? You told us the amount. Will you tell us the number of planes? Indeed, our proposal from the Centro Association is to see whether we can also obtain some F-35. We cannot compete with the Turks when they have new planes and we will go with our upgraded ones. We are not saying in any way that it will not be upgraded. We know that unless our aircraft are upgraded, which is also the backbone of our defence line, these will slowly go to disuse. We want to upgrade, we want to develop our fleet, but we need to see whether we can strengthen it with some new aircraft, which is legitimate, and I think we can conquer it. Also, this whole conversation is without seeing what is happening with our flying people. From 2010 until now, there have been reductions in flight allowance from about 15% to 45%. All right, the lifeless planes, but let's see our potential, our pilots. You are two and a half years of government and you have not done anything for them at least at this level. Our main positions in the Centroon Union are firstly to maintain 2%. We were never opposed to it, as we are in an area where, as we want to say, we are a stabilizing factor. So we have to keep this. However, there must be a rational utilization of all human and economic resources. We must have made a rationalisation and a strict control over the expenditure we have on defence and all this in a transparency regime. We must avoid the sufferings of the past, avoid the misery, scandals and all that has led us to this situation. We also believe that the Greek war industry should be strengthened immediately. We need to support both state and private companies, as our defence material would do well to come to a large part of it through Greece, thus strengthening our economy. The same should be done for the maintenance of the equipment we have taken from abroad. Before I go to the bill, I would like to make it clear that, when foreigners follow us, because there are ambassadors, consuls and see everything that is being done by this government, that is, our Prime Minister, but before he becomes a planetary commander, Mr Trump and others say on his visit there, when he sees it - I cannot even describe it - what happens in the House since the General Minister's visit to London with his visit to the casino, I do not know which counterparts he will be welcomed with the same seriousness and when this matter is 'grows' within the House to such an extent that the whole planet has learned it. We should not conduct such behaviours and images when we are in this difficult situation. There is also a need for diplomacy and national defence. And now on the bill. I'll start at the end.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u507	You're already talking eight minutes and twenty-five seconds. I've never heard you speak for eight and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u508	If you think it wasn't serious, that's what I wanted to mention. That's your view, Minister. Let's not waste any more time, we went to eight minutes. After all, our rapporteur has spoken very thoroughly about the articles. My role here is as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u509	Mr. Saridis is serious.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u510	We also congratulate Mr Saridis, who is serious and nobody disputes this. Furthermore, for Article 30 now, which is an article which negotiates and has provisions on compensatory payments, it is a new compensation contract relating to anti-aircraft Patriots. It is well known to everyone that compensation is a field of corruption. We've seen the Americans break it down. We have seen in our country what has happened that, in line with the harmonisation of the European directive, we have abolished them. However, to say figs and boats, this directive, in particular, aims to strengthen the major Franco-German colosses of the war industry at the expense of the smaller countries' war industries, as we are. In view of the fact that we do not belong to those who have no compensatory effect, it is true that the same together with domestic industrial participation, which was also abolished, and the Greek added value, helped significantly to the viability of small and medium-sized enterprises, which were also backbone, as we said before, of the domestic defence industry. But one more benefit we had was the introduction of know-how in our country. Let us not forget that, everywhere in the world, industrial development, particularly heavy, has been based on the military industry for equipment. It is also true that the Member States of the European Union, despite the European directive, with targeted moves always manage to assign almost all their defence spending to domestic industries. It is possible, in fact, to invoke Article 346 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union for the exemption of part or even all of the supply by the directive on grounds that the provision of information is contrary to their essential security. We therefore ask the Minister to now take steps to regenerate the domestic defence industry. We don't want any further degradation of her. I am sure the only ones who benefit from the closure, if any, will be the misadors and mediators who bring the equipment from abroad. We definitely want to have its immediate support, because that is how we will see this much-needed growth, jobs will finally be created, both within Greece and not just our partners and our partners. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm going to need a little more time, Mr. President. Also, something else unusual in this article - of course, we will also see the legislative improvements announced just now - is the contract of compensatory payments to be ratified by law and while this draft law ratifys a contract that has specific terms and provisions, at the same time the Minister concerned is authorised. Why should we leave some such important activities and decisions to be taken by the Minister? Our view is these amendments that will need to be made to come to Parliament and control by all of us. This is your duty and our duty. Finally, to close - if there is a gap, the rapporteur will be placed in his denology - I would like to refer to Article 27. The Armed Forces are a body which should be at least solid, stable, strong and strong. There are no stones, no cracks in this House. All Armed Forces must be united and I see that with the bill you brought in 2016, but also with it, conflicts and divisions are being created. That is something we need to see very carefully, because under no circumstances do we want a broken army. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u511	Thank you, Mr. Megalustakas. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty-two students and students and two educational attendants from the 1st Amalada High School (Second Chamber). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Micheloannakis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u512	Thank you, Mr President. It's a bill, which really solves important issues. The return of experienced executives to non-organic positions, even after thirty-five years for at least another five years, means offering experience, needs cover, not a burden on the budget, not a lack of jobs in other ministries that are in need, which are very important. It is also important to correct Mr L. Council Regulation (EC) No 2639/96 on the development of the army, the Presidential Decree on the award of a demilitarisation order to long-term volunteers - the lieutenant against the lieutenant - and the amendment of the 1970 Act on the utilization of movable assets. And with the permission of the three bodies and the Minister's approval, the storage material is used either as material or as collector material. This can be dived. It's just as important. It also provides for the establishment of a Joint Economic Services Corps and an Internal Affairs Service, i.e. the creation of new single structures for economic crime and corruption. It will be staffed by all the officers of the Court of Auditors of the Mississippi Army, by the successors in the 2017 competition, the filling of vacant posts of the Hellenic Mississippi Corps and the transfer of officers from the Economic Body to the three branches of the Armed Forces. In other words, for the first time, the internal affairs and the Body of Occupants within the Ministry acquire an entity. So there's transparency everywhere. There are officers who have the right to be abroad for two years with a heir. They are given the opportunity to remain for another two years, since they have been married to citizens of that country. The naturalized by other countries, for example from Russia, who are homogeneous and come to Greece, as soon as they received citizenship, had to be presented within two months to the Greek Army. Now a postponement is given for a year, which is important to their families. The settlement of the dues of military hospitals is also important. There is the legislative approval of a contract between the company 'RAYTHEON' and the Armed Forces. A consultation between the two parties and the counterparty has been held to cover a residual obligation and to avoid judicial proceedings. This provides for compensatory benefits and the development of a defence industry, with credit programmes worth EUR 205 million, which is equally important. Article 27 on trade unionism is essentially a follow-up to Law 4407/2016. This article makes it easier to pursue this right. In other words, the officers will be able to be in the region's headquarters and meet once a month to vote and change statutes. With all this, one can see that the bill solves serious issues in the Armed Forces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u513	Thank you, Mr. Michelonnakis. Mr Kyriazidis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u514	Colleagues and colleagues, we are discussing a bill today with provisions concerning a particular workplace. So we need special attention, of course, to specific provisions relating to the consensus and consensus of the Armed Forces. I am obliged to make a reference to the Minister of Defense, about what had been committed, and then, as a co-pilot, in the sense of compliance with the decisions of the Council of State, which, unfortunately, did not respect at all, neither as a Minister of National Defence nor as a co-pilot, although he had said too many times that, if this were the case, he would not participate in any conflict with SYRIZA. Last year, it was heard, when cuts were made by the Ministry of Labour, which included members of the Armed Forces and the Security Bodies, with regard to wage maturities and promotions, which the Minister of National Defence had once again amended that by the end of September 2016 he would find the equivalent in order to prevent the military and security forces from bearing any consequences. Unfortunately, it has passed and this time is over in 2017 and we have not seen any arrangements that will give some breath to these executives. On the contrary, under the Katorugalou Act, Law No.4387, we found and found that even the October 2017 pensions have appreciable reductions of up to EUR 200, especially those who served in specific units, which have to do with the danger, I mean the planes that performed the paratroopers' fall and so on. This will happen retrospectively with the abovementioned law from 1-6-2016 to 31-12-2018. According to the existing provisions, we will have a dramatic reduction in pensions, which, along with retrospectives, will amount to EUR 500 a month. The same provisions have suspended the payment of pensions up to 31-12-2018 to those who - if you want - had salaries exceeding EUR 2 000, and I mean the heads of the colleges, the assistants, in any case, those who should have been given special care and respect for them, so that the leader of the colleges can touch the EUR 1,800 then. That's sad. It is not possible to treat these executives with this - I will be allowed - a disgraceful way and tone. I am coming, Minister, to the issues that have to do with two new agencies in the Armed Forces. One concerns the College of Financial Inspectors, which is, of course, right to the Chief of General Staff. The second department, however, created at the Ministry of National Defence - and I am referring to the Home Office - is going to go to you. What for? The military prosecutor, we know that he has specific powers, can do, according to Articles 30 and 31 of the Criminal Procedure, any pre-examination act, in order to find illegal acts, conduct criminal prosecutions and others.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u515	The soldiers. This is civilian staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u516	Yes, you confess it here. I do not understand why the Internal Affairs Service should be subject to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u517	They're Department Services.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u518	Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u519	He wouldn't have it any other way.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u520	Why wouldn't he have them otherwise? How's the Hellenic Police Headquarters got them?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u521	He doesn't have them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u522	How does he not have them?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u523	Read to see.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u524	You read it! Make it clear, please. It is not politically possible for the Home Office to be subject to you. So, you're going to give a specific direction to who's going to control what's not in control? That's never heard of. It can't happen. Besides, the powers of the military prosecutor are specific. He could exercise - if you want - and this surveillance. In any case, if you unfortunately do not want to see it, we will find it in front of us, you will find it in front of you. And, of course, I come to a more specific issue, which I should like to address from my experience, because we worked together, as with Mr Loverdos and Mr Vitsa here, so that there would finally be a trade union expression in the way that they were to be treated, in the way that they should. Because what is happening today in the Armed Forces also happened to the Greek Police, Minister. For seven years, indeed, what has been happening today was happening to the Greek Police, with enormous division, that is, there being abnormal situations. And I'd say she was paid by the police personnel, but also by the Greek police. And you come today to repeat exactly the same thing, in the sense of creating a directed trade union voice, a presence, which I would say should have our previous sufferings become lessons. Where do you even do it? In a work place that needs special attention, in the sense of self-consciousness and conscientiousness. So, what are you doing now? You come and legalize a particular union, you put a sign on it, and all the members of the Armed Forces are forced to join it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr. Deputy Minister, you were committed to bringing in an amendment, a legislative improvement. What are you doing here? You come and you put the label, that is now the specific union called "Pan-Hellenic Federation of Soldiers" must harmonise its statutes, according to what is currently reflected here and everyone is forced to join there at a certain time. So what are you doing? You oblige everyone to join here in order to keep an eye on this in terms of trade union expression. You're hurting yourself, Minister. I'm telling you, you're hurting. We agree - I honestly tell you - at primary level. And those who have not been created in accordance with the law to establish their statutes. Why do you not create a secondary organisation, without a name, in this period of time to establish their statutes and then proceed within a certain period of time in which the elite and the supreme one are best placed to emerge through this process? What are you guys doing now? You are specifically baptizing and you must all pass through this "second level" organization with a named label, excluding others. And the problem will continue. I'm telling you, honestly. This - you will allow me to speak - we had been with the Greek police. We sat down - all parties sat - in 1994, we did make such a arrangement, accepted and smoothly and sympatheticly, we proceeded to the next step without disturbing anything at all. Do you want these disruptions and turbulence to continue within the Armed Forces? You have a responsibility if you want to follow this way. Until today's debate is over, we have a chance to have a normality in the Armed Forces. For everything that happens, you'll be responsible, honestly, I'm telling you. There's intent. I have discussed with the rapporteurs of all parties except for SYRIZA, because it will obviously adopt your position, and agree on this. Give it a chance, give it a chance for a normality to the Armed Forces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u525	Thank you, Mr. Cryazides.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u526	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u527	Mr. Vitch has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u528	Just one word, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u529	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u530	The amendment, with a general number of 1311 and a special number 77, which we have left pending, for the agreement of Mrs Ahtsoglou, on the question of equity funds, is accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u531	What is it, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u532	For 4% of reservations from the fund equipment.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u533	Good. Mr. Vitsa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u534	Because it comes back and comes back and pulls, I give a definitive answer and say what my position is. I have all the suggestions in mind. First of all, I say that both unions who want to be federations are said to be 'Pan-Elenaean Federation of Military Unions'. Both. One has kept the WTO, the other POMENS as an arctex.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u535	One secondary.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u536	Have a seat, understand what people say. The proposal comes and says: Take off these two and make a third. So it doesn't exclude the fact that these two exist. I come to say: this is a matter not a matter for legislating in the House. It's a matter of political practice. There is not only this political practice.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u537	Minister, you put a sign on it. You call them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u538	I'll say the same again. There's no arctic in what you're reading. And I told them: Beware, gentlemen, there are not only the two unions called the WTO and the WEU. When the procedure is completed - to be clear - of the election of the representatives and the administrative councils of the regional units, there are also the chairmen. So if you don't find them within this period of three, six months, there are other political practices that can be exploited. I'm not going to go tell the trade unionist - and you don't know my fear - what one is doing and what another is doing. I called it a little on Mr Megalumustakas: because in GFCM they often clash with each other - and they do well - with various political tactics did anyone say there was no GSC? Because in the Panhellenic Association of Professionalists, is the same thing possible, does it not exist?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u539	Minister, with the order...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u540	Well, I'm telling you, I've got my good services...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u541	Minister, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u542	Yeah, but you call it...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u543	Please don't interrupt, Mr. Cryazides.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u544	You put labels on.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u545	Since they both have the same name.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u546	Why don't you put on a secondary organization?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u547	How many times do I have to tell you to understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u548	Why don't you put it on?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u549	Don't you agree to have one?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u550	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u551	Then what are you telling me?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u552	But this one has a name. You call it here...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u553	Since they both have the same name. How many times do I have to say it?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u554	Minister, have you finished?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u555	You define it here.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u556	Mr. Cryazides, you did so a little while ago. Please don't record what you're saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u557	Ask what's your name? It's a Panhellenic Federation of Military Associations.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u558	Name them both now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u559	None of us call it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u560	But what's your name?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u561	Mr. Cryazides, nothing of what you're saying now is recorded. Can you hear me? Mr. Cryazides, do you understand? At the moment, nothing has been recorded than you said. Minister, are you done?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u562	I'm done, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u563	Mrs Catherine Papakostas - Ferropoulou from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u564	Thank you very much, Mr President. I shall immediately begin my position on this draft law by the Ministry of National Defence and I shall try to focus on issues which have not been raised in the way that I wish to raise them by those colleagues who were put before me, Mr President and ladies and gentlemen. The first thing. Hopefully. I'm putting on titles. Mr President, Ministers representing the Government and colleagues, I would like to say that the issue focused on whether or not they were wearing, clothed or not, the Hopes were in their uniform. I want to focus on the political issue that exists. The political issue that is currently happening throughout Europe and which has come to our country is that there is an uproar of violence and an uproar of extremes and attitudes in peacetime, in a period of democracy in all the capitals of Europe, with the result that the election results have arisen in such a state of fear and insecurity of the citizens are that they are collapsed by Christian Democrats and social democrats, instead of spending money on social policies towards vulnerable groups, they spend much more on the internal security of the European capitals. This issue should concern us. You see the results of the Czech elections recently, according to which extremes and extremes gain ground against traditional parties. That should give us some thought, ladies and gentlemen. So the title 'Happy', beyond the charge, contains a political content that no one should ignore.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u565	I'm sorry, Mrs. Papakosta. Please, be quiet, ladies!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u566	Two. Visit by the Prime Minister of Greece to the United States of America. I am very much concerned, Mr President, and I think, ladies and gentlemen, with the Greek people as a whole, that it should be clarified in the Greek Parliament with a debate which will take place at the National Representation, clarifying the content of the Greek Government's agreement with the United States of America on defence and security issues. That included the part of the whole, which involved upgrading the F-16. I think it's a place, not the whole thing. There I would like to say that this should concern the National Representation and the Greek people in the sense that our region, Greece, our country, is the only pillar of stability in the wider region. It is the juncture that is extremely favourable for the country, because the United States is currently looking for a stable arm, a stable pillar in the region, and it can only be Greece. That is the second point. So how does the country make use of it and through its Government, through its permanent positions, which the present government has expressed and which the present government has respected? So I don't understand why you were expecting something different from the House. I do not think that it is possible, when one is in governance, to leave the country's standing positions in relation to both the defensive dogma and foreign policy and diplomacy issues, in relation to what the country has built for years as its permanent foreign policy and as a dogma of defence and security. I do not understand what one would expect from that. What I expect, however, is to clarify how, at such a favourable juncture, our country has benefited far more than it could possibly benefit at a time when tensions with the neighbouring country, Turkey, were not available in Europe to return to the 19th century, in line with what I said at the beginning. In other words, instead of going to a Europe that is greater, safer and closer to its citizens, we slowly go to reasonable feudalism, close up to ourselves and enclose ourselves on the basis of the phobia and insecurity that prevails. So what do we get now? You need to make it clear to us. I would like to see the Prime Minister explain that to us. My third point is that you need to solve a number of problems in the Ministry, because you are making a draft law. I get it. But we disagree, we have a different view, and elsewhere we agree. It's management. However, I would like to raise two - three issues which are very serious. What will you do, for example, Minister, since you are a Minister of National Defence, with the abolition of the pensions of the Armed Forces officials and, indeed, with serious disability, 80% or more? There we saw that the protection of the institution of invalidity, which is protected by the Constitution, is effectively abolished by national and international law. The legality of the Katrugalou law has been violated. Will the unjustly non-protection of the pensions of the HEIs be restored? It is an issue that you need to resolve. A second issue is widow's pensions. No European Union country shall issue a pension on the basis of the income and assets of insured persons. It is an issue that you need to see and solve. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] A third issue you need to see is the deep cut in the pensions of the Armed Forces officials, based on the principle of applying the Katrugalos Act, and, indeed, on those who held a responsibility. The heavier responsibility position these executives held, the deeper haircut they had in their pensions. I would also like to make one or two comments on two issues, because many colleagues have focused on these issues. Rule 11, Minister, for the College of Inspectors and the Internal Affairs Service - and nobody said that - is confusing and you need to change it. I will tell you which proposal you must adopt. As far as the powers of economic unions are concerned, it conflicts with Law 721/1970 on the accounting of the Armed Forces and Public Accountants and you will be in trouble. I therefore propose that you adopt the proposal of the Economic Union Liaison Committee, which highlights this issue to you. Look at it, please too. I propose that the revenues from the use of the Ministry's assets be given to the shareholder funds, because as you know very well, they have suffered many reductions and substantially their dividends...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u567	It's done.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u568	Did you put it? That is why I asked before, but you told me that the amendment was not about it. In the equity funds.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u569	Four percent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u570	This is the Ministry of Labour. I'm talking about making use of it. It's Mrs. Ahchioglu's, if I'm not mistaken.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u571	It's one of the equipment.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u572	Yeah. I am talking about the use of property, that is, Article 8, which talks about the exploitation of assets. Take advantage of the assets...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u573	It's all going to the equity funds.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u574	This, indeed, is a very good news. It is also a question of Article 27, to which I have heard that there is a debate which does not end anywhere. In my opinion, this is a very simple thing if we ask the leaders to give their opinion. The physical leadership of the Armed Forces is the one that will also be responsible. So ask them what they think on this issue, if they think that this can help. So, before you proceed to any arrangement, consult them, ask their opinion. If they give you the green light, then go ahead. Otherwise, you will bring political responsibility for what comes out. And I assure you that it will come about, because it is not at all just when there are conflicts and, indeed, in the sensitive area of the Armed Forces. Finally, I want to say that it is good on defence issues that we all focus on the risk. And the risk is to have a policy, which first of all focuses on the executives, because the executives are the ones handling our armaments, the executives must have high morality, the officers of the Armed Forces - men and women - are the ones that should feel security and appreciation on their faces. And we should prove that in this matter all governments, all defence ministers. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to say that here we have to agree on a number of issues. I have pointed out to you two, three issues that are very important to the strains of the Armed Forces. Go on in that direction, and I think that no one will object to it. In an abstraction of my word and at the end of my position, Mr President, I will say that the horrific battles which are taking place in the Greek Parliament, personal references, on the occasion of these matters, do not seek honour in the Greek Parliament. And I would also ask the President of the Parliament and you, who are the Vice-Presidents responsible for managing and coordinating this process, to preserve the authority of the House by spreading to practices and behaviours that aim at a personal level for colleagues or ministers toward colleagues or colleagues to the Ministers, to respect the Rules of Procedure at all times. And the Rules of Procedure say that on matters relating to personal matters - which do not concern me, neither of us nor the Greek society - you should recall them in order, Mr President, if you may impose them on them the proper prices. Because, as a Member of the Greek Parliament, I will not apologise, coming out of this Chamber, for behaviors that do not treat us as honorable and for which I am indebted - as far as I am concerned - because I have made sure that I respect each colleague and every colleague - and accept the phrase that 'all of you are about the same' and 'what image is this which you are giving to the Greek Parliament' and 'how do we then respect you'?' If each of us cannot stand by for each of us, Mr President, that is why we have voted for you, so that you can impose the Rules of Procedure and impose it where we have to, without stars and without footnotes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u575	Ms. Papakostas, everything understands what you said. It could involve the next meeting of the Conference of Presidents and take this issue seriously, which is not just you, but other Members also put it at regular intervals.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u576	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u577	Minister, do you want to tell us about some kind of legislation?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u578	I tabled the Legislative Note on the three issues I mentioned earlier. It concerns the removal of Article 4, which concerns the question of the change of the Minister to the Director-General for Equipment, proposed by Mr Theocharopoulos and a third topic.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u579	To be filed and distributed to the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u580	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u581	Mr President, because Mrs Papacosta mentioned a very delicate issue on the LEADER - and I know she is aware of it - to ask her, in the context of cooperation with Parliament, to deal with this issue in the Ministry, in the Legislative Committee. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS VARENTIS takes over]] I will also address to you the letters we have made on the vacancy issues, to include in the next bill and the issue of HSE and the issue of widowhood, so that we can actually restore this injustice.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u582	Good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u583	Mr Theocharis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u584	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, 'learn art and homelessness'. When the Minister is no longer a minister - and I hope arrogance does not blind him, he does not think he will be a minister forever - he will open a photography. So many photographic devices gathered never happened before. Examples of too much. Article 3 is photographic. Why the reinstatement of special permanent officers for helicopters? Why are executives excluded from the Higher Military Training Institutions, ASA, and the Higher Military Schools of Officials, ASA, which in recent years have covered the operational needs of helicopters? Article 27, for which much has been said, introduces party unionism into the Armed Forces. Photography. It abolishes regional organisations and tries to bring the WTO back to legality. And I wonder why the military associations should be dissolved? Why should military officers not be involved in associations, as is the case so far? Is it because the Minister already has twenty primary organizations ready, as a author of the defensive report revealed? And indeed, he puts before his State Secretary, Mr Vitsa, to defend this provision, which brings us back to the eras of Mr Rotopoulos in GSEE. Is the Minister going to try and get the trade union movement to get on with? When he says that the Armed Forces must remain outside party controversy, he must prove it in practice. With Articles 8 and 9, you hand over the funds to the Minister of Finance, strangling the share funds, as you handed over the pensioners of the Armed Forces to Mr Katrugalo. The widows are right now outside the Ministry of Labour in mobilization. Give us a solution. It is not possible for women, who had to follow any transfer of their husband, now say, 'what to do, pay no contributions' and lose their pension. It is positive, in any case, to establish a Joint College of Economic Inspectors to prevent and investigate economic and corruption crimes in the Ministry and the Armed Forces in general. Of course, you are talking in the bill about financial care for the Armed Forces, when you have not yet made progress in restoring wage injustices and implementing the decision of the Council of State. Minister, you need to take a position when it's going to happen. No more false amendments to find equivalent, which are lost and never implemented. You, of course, proceeded with the implementation of the Katrugalos Act quite surprisingly as of 1 October, in additional cuts by the retired soldiers, especially those who were qualified, qualified or qualified dangerous. So you know that pensioners of these specialties have lost over 70% of their earnings? I submit to the minutes of the House a statement from the Alumni Association of the Icaron School. It turns out that the law-based cuts determine, for example, that the honorary retired Chief of HNDGS, with over forty years of service and regardless of whether he has dangerous specialties, will have a salary of around 1.450 euros. Imagine what happens next. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Theocharis (Haris) Theocharis, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Let me close with the Greek Prime Minister's recent trip to Washington. We thought and hoped that some investment initiatives would be heard on this journey. The only commitment that we have finally seen as a country is to upgrade the F-16 to sell, that is, the United States F-16 in our country, with Mr Trump, thank us for the numerous jobs that Greece, Greece of tolerance, Greece, which the ministers do not know, even now, are looking for food from the trash. As soon as you got up to the ministerial thorns, you forgot to see the world's difficulties. Greece, therefore, gives jobs to the United States. And, of course, nobody knows what the truth is, because other figures are heard by you, but numbers are heard by Mr Trump himself, ECU 2.4 billion in one case, ECU 1.1 billion here. We must finally put things in place. A document from the Defence Security Cooperative Agency of the US Pentagon dated 17 October - which I will testify in the Minutes - states that the cost of upgrading will be $ 2.4 billion and that there are no compensatory benefits, of course, which have already been abolished by law and which you yourself have accused as incubator of corruption. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Theocharis (Haris) Theocharis, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] On the other hand, we hear, of course, the cost of EUR 1.1 billion. Finally, this must be cleared up. Ladies and gentlemen of the conflict, you took the PASOK scenario of the 1980s and you implement it. We live the history of the '80s for the second time. But the second time, as we all know, we live as a prank. You pushed the annoying people out of your party, just like you did back then. You sold your Minister when he fought the Church, as it did then. Do the one thing, sign of SYRIZA and ANEL - now of the country - after the other, as well then. You renewed the bases, as well as then. In fact, I wonder why you don't take people off the streets to shout: 'the fight is now being justified'. And since the market of the century then, we have gone through upgrading the century now. You hope now that you will also find a Civola to "send everything" before the next election. You won't find him and you won't find your vote either! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u585	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Standing Committee on Production and Trade presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Environment and Energy: 'Amendment of Law 2939/2001 on the alternative management of packaging and other products, adaptation to Directive 2015/720/EU, regulation of issues of the Hellenic Recycling Agency and other provisions'. Mrs Triantafyllou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u586	Thank you, Mr President. Ensuring the functionality of the Armed Forces is an essential condition for the exercise of our sovereign rights and the prevention of fait accompli. This is also of particular importance because of our country's geographical location, but also because of an international reality governed by the irreversible controversy. Ensuring the functionality of the Armed Forces involves many issues, from the living conditions of the Armed Forces, the Armed Forces, the structures and infrastructures of the Army, the military material, the weapons and so many others. It is common secret that in recent years, despite the bilateral reasons for the Armed Forces, wages and funds have been cut that would ensure this much better function. And not only that, but there's an infinite hypocrisy when we talk about the Armed Forces. And if we think - and we must think so, it has been historically proven many times - that the Armed Forces are the defender of the national interest, that is, of the people's interest, why do you not trust them when we talk about trade unions in the Armed Forces? I would say that today, but also in the discussions in the committees on this legislation and in other cases, there was an auction for the Armed Forces, for who is more patriot and who loves the Armed Forces more. I'll talk very quickly about the bill. A number of controversial issues are addressed, a variety of career issues, as well as the wage issues of the Armed Forces. Arrangements concerning the possibility of short stay of officers in the ranks of the Armed Forces shall be introduced. There are also important provisions concerning the use of the obsolete movable property of the Armed Forces, the proper management of the real estate. This is precisely what can cause chainable benefits both in the military and in the budget function of the DHS. And, of course, it provides for the creation of a new organisational framework for inspections, internal controls, with a view to preventing and extending economic crimes and corruption crimes which harm the economic interests of the Ministry of National Defence and the Armed Forces in general. And, unfortunately, the area of the Armed Forces and armaments is now proven to have turned into a corruption man over the past decades. And most of the ministers - several of them, rather, Ministers, to be fair - who went through the Ministry are controlled for violations and a service of interests against the Greek people. Of course, we have to say that, for the first time, a thorough review of contracts is laid down by providing assurances on the legal management and preparation of financial reports and statements. There are many arrangements and there has been a great debate and a controversy on matters of trade union representation. I would like to say first of all that we must show confidence in the Armed Forces, secondly, that the Armed Forces themselves must show seriousness in this matter and, thirdly, that no court, in my opinion, imposes this seriousness. There have been too many references to the framework within which the country, the framework of NATO and the European Union operate, and in this debate there has been a lot of anti-Americanism and fucking accession to imperialism. Let us take it in turn: First of all, in my view, foreign policy is not a collection of ideological positions. Foreign policy must be an organised effort in terms of prioritising priorities, cohesion, discipline and precision of execution to support and strengthen our sovereign rights and to strengthen peace. Anyone responsible for planning and exercising foreign policy must choose and prejudge alliances that promote its strategic planning and avoid untimely complications and unnecessary fronts. For the anti-American Left - I would say in general the Greek people - let us clarify some things: the United States is a dominant force, despite changes at regional level and despite the apparent effort and even self-energy of many regional powers. From the United States of America, many imperialist attacks have started and we don't have to hide it. We've said it. All this is done to ensure and broaden their interests, not national interests necessarily but the interests of capital. Where is Greece in this? Greece is a dependent country. There are others who claim something else, but we firmly believe that it is a dependent country and is also a member of NATO. We have always evaluated and evaluated NATO's course, but we have chosen to be a member of it, and we are also managing the country's fates. In this management we have chosen to have frameworks. We are accountable and, of course, accountable to our actions towards the Greek people. However, I think that the Left cannot say 'we have been demanded' again. We have lost, but yet we have done our duty to internationalism or whatever. Why am I saying all this? I'm going now to see if we've joined imperialism. Why did we really join imperialism? Just because we're NATO members. When the Left with another connection, at other times, dragged the people to the king's feet, dragged the people with the gun into the hands of the king's feet, really, where did he accede? I say this because I think that mistakes are paid dearly at this level and that is why they are not forgiven. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u587	Thank you, too, for respecting time. We're entering the secondary stage. Mr Karayannides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u588	I'll try to be brief. That's enough. I kept a few notes from here and there. From the point of view of the JRC's criticism, I would like to make a case of work. First we found the F-16 in the country. We didn't have a right, we didn't have a chance, we couldn't take anything else. If, as the Secretary-General of the JRC said, this little guarantees Greek interests, what is the proposal? We have F-16. I told the committees too. We've got those planes. What is the JRC's proposal for these planes? Should we have them functionally, so they can fly or leave them? I understand that. We are a member of NATO, F-16 is a global weapon of NATO member countries, within the NATO doctrine, but there is a reality that we cannot ignore. So, what is the proposal on upgrading the F-16s? We didn't hear a proposal. We have heard about how bad NATO is - we know - that it is an imperialist organisation - we also know that it has made interventions and interventions in countries - we also know that. The proposal for aeroplanes, however, cannot escape by throwing the ball into the cradle! Is there a proposal from the standpoint of counterpopulation? Let's not just identify it in the JRC. We've got those planes. A specific procedure has been drawn up here. On the other hand, it is the Democratic Reconciliation. The Spokesman said that we will obviously not talk here about all the details of the F-16, but tell us how much they will cost, which planes we will make upgrades, what electronic systems we will make them upgrade. Well, if we agree that all this is not said here, but it is said in the Committee on Equipment, let us not ask these questions, which have no answer, and then we say that the Ministry is silent. They don't silence the Ministry, because they're not said in public. And we have all agreed in this Chamber that they are not said in public. The second has to do with the strike of journalists who exist yesterday and today. We cannot support the strike of journalists and be present at the only strike channel currently in existence in the country, in the 'SKAI'. We either support the journalists' strike to save their fund, or we do not support the strike and we go to SKAI and give interviews. Both of you can't do it together. In fact, the president of the trade union went to SKAI today to talk about the well-known cholera in health. I don't have to say the name. We all know him. Thirdly, we have heard the words 'unheard of the legislation', 'we are insane to legislate in this way' and 'first and foremost'. I'm talking about forming the internal affairs body. I would like to inform the rapporteur and the entire New Democracy that the port is subject to the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, the domestic affairs are the direct responsibility of the Minister. You legislated. So you're insane, so you've done unheard of things, so what you've legislated is unheard of. Didn't you legislate on the port's internal affairs being subject to the Minister? Are you going to say something about this? Why are you making a review, ignoring what you have done in the past, not in the far, but in 2013. As far as Article 2 is concerned, the Deputy Minister and the Minister have explained that there is no financial cost. Why do you insist to a degree that will be given honorably? Well, you're saying retired officers will do it, but you're actually guiding them to go do it. This thing can't be done. We explain to you that the General Accounting Office of the State writes zero cost. Why don't you get it and we need to keep talking the same thing? The same is true of Article 27. The characterization is not an arctic. It's a Panhellenic Federation of Military Associations. He doesn't put the arctic book, he puts the total characterisation of this trade union organisation. In any case, if we want to contribute to this, we can make a creative contribution. There is no'removing the article'. It is not creative and, in fact, it is not unanimous in all the opposition, because that is what it is called. There are opposition parties that will vote for the article. This bill brings all these changes that we have discussed in the four committees. For me the most important - perhaps because I was a little more involved - is what happens with the '90s. It's obviously not more important for everyone. I define it personally. But he's trying to bring some changes. They were detonated here against the bill. I have the impression that we will come to the vote by way of an article, and the opposition, which has launched cords against the bill, will vote for more than half. Something's going on. Criticism and production criticism. A lot of what you said about the Ministry of National Defence adopted them and made them legislative improvements and incorporated them into the bill. That is, criticism has helped in a piece. But it is not possible for Mr Kikilis to appear here, to level the bill, to miss the rest of the procedure, and at the end of the day the rapporteur to vote at least eleven, twelve, thirteen articles. This thing can't be done. So to make a criticism that makes sense. To make a review that we'll send with twitter our video to publicity, it's just for the show. We lived with Mr. Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u589	Mr. Treasury, you have the floor. Let me point out to you the limits of time, it's seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u590	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the legislative improvements you have brought have not changed the photographic character of the bill you are bringing to the vote. In addition, all ten amendments, almost all of which relate to the law under discussion, show the sloppyness that your Ministry sees as regards the relevant law. The New Democracy will vote against Articles 8 and 9. Firstly, you did not withdraw the procedure of the oral auction, you have only intelligently added together with this term and the ‘electronic’. I think it's inconsistent with the Ministry of National Defence, because it's managing the sale of war material, there's an oral auction. It's unauthorized. With regard to the second point, you have not guaranteed, as you promised, the revenues of the shareholders from the use of the material, as you promised before the returning officers' associations. For Articles 10 and 23 concerning the College of Inspectors and the Internal Affairs, as you have given him the term 'common body', we insist on our positions, despite the legislative improvements you have made, even at the last minute, because we do not agree on many things. First of all, we do not agree on the establishment of such important services, when it is done in the most unacceptable and inappropriate way. One department and the other must be separate, be subject to the inter-institutional Chief and be under the supervision of the prosecutor of the revision court. We are clear in our protagonists. The New Democracy believes in the independent authority, believes in the prosecutor, as it acts in accordance with the Code of Criminal Procedure, from Articles 31 to 36. We will also be voting against all the articles relating to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and the Internal Affairs, that is to say from 10 to 23, because we have had the political courage to propose solutions to you. We have really contributed to giving you all our experience, but also to the clear and crystal clear positions of the New Democracy in order to accept them. Unfortunately you did not accept them, and the Minister wants to have public prosecutors and inquiries. For God's sake! The field of glory is brilliant for a minister. He doesn't have to get into this process. And I think you're in the wrong direction. The New Democracy is committed to restoring normality to the Armed Forces with regard to the establishment of these bodies, because these bodies that you are establishing - keep in mind - have a good foundation. You also did not accept the lengthy staffing of the Joint Economic Inspectorate from the High School of Military Military, the Military College of Officials of Thessaloniki, known as the students of the Armed Forces, their executives, officers, attending the University of Macedonia. As far as the costs of military hospitals are concerned, an unacceptable and opaque situation is perpetuated and all parties must discuss the imposition of a clean and transparent procedure, which will have a positive economic impact and a savings of money. With regard to the trade union article, despite the legislative improvements that the Minister of National Defence continues to make, it is absolutely photographic, it expands the civil climate between the military officials, it divides the military personnel and you have serious responsibilities. It was a unique opportunity. I told you before the committee that you would not be remembered for any work. You might have been reminded if you were brave and proceeded to the ad hoc intergroup committee dealing with this matter, it would have been a cross-party component of all of us, and we would all have to implement it. With these general positions, Minister, I think you were in the wrong direction, and despite the fact that we were committed to voting in favour of eleven articles, because you have not changed from the line you have drawn, so our vote will be even more limited. Since the Minister is missing, however, I would like to remind him that the Jews and the Thraces do not accept any discounts on the planned structure. In fact, there is also a low-speaking rumour that you will make as far as the Armed Forces are concerned, because the people of Evros and Thrace are identified with waves and major waves, because they believe that these operational centers need to exist, because they guarantee peace and security in the region. We would ask you to be very careful about this. With these general considerations, we will take up an article on whether or not the relevant law is adopted. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u591	Thank you too, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, thirty-eight students and students and three teachers attending the Corfu Music Gymnasium. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u592	Mr President, did you presiding when Mrs Papacosta came down from Step? Were you here? When Mrs Papakostas came out of Step, the Minister of National Defence took the floor and, after she ended her legislative improvements, told her that for widow’s pensions and for some disability issues she was given - let me say it freely - and the legislative initiative. In other words, it gives it the initiative to bring rules to the House. The question of widowhood has been raised by us with parliamentary control and by proposals from Mrs Gennamas ten times. In this legislative initiative by the Ministry, I have brought it twice in the Committee on Foreign and Defence Policy. And today another morning. Why didn't he give it to me? What are these games in front of our eyes? What are these toys? I'm really upset. I've been hurt by this. I am not saying this because I really wanted to take the legislative initiative. Everyone knows that I, as the Minister of Labour, refused to make this intervention 'chequardon', and I refused to do so at 100% of the Troika's proposal then, the next ministers, and Mr Katrugalos came and did so by criminalising it. In the committee, there was agreement on almost all the forces and the Ministry's amendments and we were waiting here today. Did I say in my speech in the morning that he did not come and now is the legislative initiative being given to a Member of the Officership? I have been upset, Mr President, and this is a game in front of our eyes. Such, however, "gloves" are not right within the National Representation. Second, as far as I'm concerned...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u593	Mr. Georgiadis is a shareholder of the game?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u594	I don't know what Mr. Georgiadis is doing, I say...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u595	As a parliamentary representative I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u596	Mr President, please, let me finish. It's the House of Greeks and it's not the House of Games here - politically I mean. Now I shall refer to Souda. After the visit of the Greek Prime Minister to the United States and three meetings of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence and the Plenary Assembly, is there any such gap? I say this because in 2002 I had taken the initiative as State Secretary for Foreign Affairs to bring ratification of the Souda Convention here in Parliament and I remember the coalition then. Over the years, cubisms, cubisms, have we talked about this morning, but with four parliamentary procedures in progress we still do not know exactly what has been done on this matter?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u597	There's a question for Friday.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u598	Has the competence and functions of the database extended? Is the contract just being renewed in time? We should know. It is unacceptable that the Minister and the Deputy Minister should not give a picture of this matter during four meetings. Now, Mr Vitsa, on the Scaramaga Shipyards, I also spoke to Mr Dousina, who was here, and I told him that you agreed to have a debate in the Committee on Defence, but he must also have contacted the Ministry of Finance to be Mr Pitsirlas present, that is to say, the two of you, particularly him, but also you, as a matter of fact, must have contacted the Ministry of Finance to make a point. From what you are saying - I repeat that I have told you in committee too - I understand that, in the context of the many issues that you are dealing with, you have not given it, after the arbitration decision I mean, not from the outset, as much importance as it is. The arbitration ruling is a large text and has too many details. I would ask you very much, because I have tried to do so and to some extent I have control over the subject, perhaps to some extent small, because you have to be prepared by this committee not to make good words but to come up with a perspective. And I suggest you, on November 12, to have the debate with your own, with the Greek public recourse to voluntary jurisdiction, ask for the trial to be postponed, because if you go to a special administrator's appointment, I would again say that you have a 12-month period within which an investor must be found. And the investment that requires the break-up of the shipyards in a commercial and warfare department and the sale of the land, the other is going to see what it will do, has too many problems. First of all, it has problems with regard to 'COSCO', which is the emerging buyer. I have no problem, I am not in favour of anyone and against anyone, but because we are all listening to what you are listening to, and you say that there are plans, we specialize in these, because dialogue is very much out of the question. There may be interesting, widely defined concept, but when you enter into the details and specifically the arbitration you will see that the person who accepts such an arrangement also accepts a sack of new appeals to arbitration and actions, which touch 1 billion. And if you see the ruling from the present arbitration, it is a matter of saying that it is 180 million and one day to say that the applicant for the arbitration requested 1 billion and took 180 million, and the other is to say that it asked for 1.5 billion and took 180 million. I want you to take a closer look at what the decision has said. I gave indicative figures to both the committee and the morning. This is not the time to repeat the same issues. In the Standing Committee, however, we will go and when we leave there, Mr Vitsa, we will all be aware that we are going to find a solution that does not close the shipyard and if it is possible to continue its operation. There are suggestions and thoughts. You also did not take a position in relation to one of the late 2011 misinterpretation given by the Ministry of National Defence, which prevents the Armed Forces of other states from giving jobs to Scaramaga Shipyards. That's a misinterpretation. It was followed by many governments, and yours and ours and ours. It's wrong. This must be corrected and you do not fix it. Now we're going to the financial inspectors. I have a suggestion to make last minute. It is about Article 14. There is - if I understand correctly, because my technical capabilities too have a limit to understand specific provisions of the draft law - a period when graduates hopefully 2002-2007 are out of competition. If I'm right, then you can include them. That's an outlet. You're giving it a chance. The whole structure of Articles 10 to 23 is wrong. I told you this morning. However, since you do not withdraw the settings, see this addition in Article 14. We have made two amendments as a Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - PIMMAR. The first relates to the amendment to the Katrugalos Act, so that the EUR 2000 ceiling on military pensions exempts allowances, especially benefits in dangerous location services. And let me close with that, because now I do not find the text for our other amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u599	I thought you were going to close now, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u600	No, Mr President, just a minute. I insist on the amendments we have tabled. If I am allowed by the President for half a minute when my next colleagues are finished, I shall make a reference to the second amendment. And with this, Mr President, I have completed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u601	Mr President, please, the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u602	Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u603	As regards what Mr Loverdo has already said, we must make it clear. The New Democracy does not participate in any collusion with the Minister of National Defence and on any pretext committee that will manage the issues of MDGs and widowhood, after the government has previously legislated and cut off all these people's money and while we have been indicting it for so many months and I and the President of the New Democracy with a special meeting with these people twice to date bring the legislative initiative and give the people what cut them off. So please be clear to everyone. New Democracy and certainly no Member of this House is taking part in such a pretext, Mr Loverdos. Let's get this straight. These are Mr. Kammenos's provocations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u604	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u605	Here you go, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u606	I said that and this morning, I just missed this amendment. I said this morning in my speech, Mr President, and we have tabled this, that we, of course, in the way that was allowed in 2013, 2014, had done on the basis of the well-known decisions of the Council of State, 50% in the sense that you said. I did not talk about the immediate payment, but we had set it up and started paying the relevant 50%. For the remaining 50% there has been a lot of talk on the part of Mr Kammenos, but no action. And we have tabled an amendment according to which, for this remaining 50% of the present draft law, a solution must be found.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u607	Mr. Kouzeli, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u608	In relation to the bill, we were placed during the committees and during the plenary session. What we have to say is that since Article 27 has not been withdrawn, the division in the Armed Forces and the grumpy will continue to exist. And that's all because you brought the union to the Armed Forces. That's the first. Secondly, with regard to what we said before about the shipyards, it is not just the Scaramaga shipyards. It is, Mr Loverdo, as you said before, and the Syrian shipyards, which are currently facing a very serious problem. There are already programs of the Navy, and these people will want to know what is to come. And I close by saying that we were expecting a number of other issues to be solved that are currently plagued by the Armed Forces, and we certainly did not see that. We also stress once again that it was from the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Finance today from our debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u609	Mrs. Canelley has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u610	I will keep to my promises when I was placed, which I said I would use my dentistry to clarify the vote and refer to the amendments. As far as Articles are concerned, Article 1 states 'no'. In Article 2, ‘yes’. In Article 3, 'no'. Article 4 is repealed. I'll see you in the amendment. In Article 5, 'no'. In Article 6, 'no'.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u611	See you in the vote, Mrs Canelley.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u612	Let me say it. It matters because it relates to the amendments. In Article 7, ‘yes’. In Article 8, 'no'. In Article 9, 'no'. In Articles 10 to 23 ‘representations’. In Article 24, 'yes'. In Article 25, 'yes'. In Article 26, ‘yes’. In Article 27, ‘yes’. In Article 28, ‘yes’. In Article 29,'residences'. In Article 30, 'the present', despite the legislative improvements you have brought forward and for which one could have discussed. We shall now proceed to the amendments. We have four ministerial, if I am not mistaken, and four parliamentary amendments. I am starting with the ministerial amendments. In Amendment No 1306 and in Amendment No 72 we are voting 'no'. In Amendment No 1307, and a special number 73, we vote 'at present'. In Amendment No 1308 we are voting 'yes' on both sides, as you have brought them. In Amendment No 1309, we are voting 'yes'. And now I am going to go through the parliamentary amendments. In Amendment No 1311, and a special number 77, we vote'residents'. In Amendment No 1312 and special number 78 we vote 'yes'. In Amendment No 1315 and in Amendment No 79 we vote 'yes'. In Amendment No 1316, and a special number 80, we are voting 'at present'. I want to clarify two things. With regard to Amendment No 1311 and specific number 77, the one you have brought to finalise the clarification of the funds and the property of the funds, I will explain why we are voting in the way we are voting on. We need to explain this to you, and we need to point out something to you. You are asking us to vote and say 'yes' or 'no' in the article of the Katorugalos Act that promotes the return on the benefits of the share funds and provides for zero funding from the state budget. In other words, you're asking us to accept that, which is already at the level of the bill, we've been ravaged to tell you it's not possible. You are now bringing it in the form of an amendment specialising in the military and you are actually strengthening the funds to the equity funds, which is, in fact, nothing but military money itself. This is a colossal contradiction between the Katrugalu law and what we are trying to correct now. We are presenting, in other words, as revenues from the work and the money of the military, while we have been in advance - you have, not us who did not vote for it - the Katrugalos Act, which provides for zero state funding and promotion of remuneration, what we are still saying 'priority and other sales'. I shall now go to Amendment No 1306 and to specific number 72, which is important for me to tell you why we are saying 'no' to you. It is this notorious amendment - so that you are not looking - with the long telephone lines. We insisted on and did not hear from us, which is something that, indirectly, allows me to reply to the political concept of which you have wondered whether there are things that are not said, as our parliamentary representative has said, for defence reasons and especially when they are discussed in the Committee on Arms. What you are actually saying is absolutely rhetorical in terms of the substance of the country's defence, the patriotic support of our national interests. My dear colleague, as much as you smile, you know I'm right. When you bring this amendment to me, since you say that 'we must defend the country and not say clearly what is said in the Committee on Equipment', we must go out and say with the amendment to the Greek people that the certification of the suitability of these services concerns the provision of these services, long lines to cover the telecommunications needs of long-line services - they know those who are listening - to bodies other than the Ministry of National Defence. So let's go to the military formations of NATO and the European Union that are located in our country. It is not enough that this is needed, but we are also giving authorisation on the part of both the naval and the Euro-Union services to the Greek Ministry of Defence. What does that look like for us? And I think it's something that any intelligent person understands. Firstly, it shows the degree of homogenisation - look out! - all these different services, Greek, natonic and Euro-Union. I have heard my last colleague say 'We know it's an imperialist mechanism, what to do, it's a real policy'. It is a realistic policy in a closely co-operating grid in the extremely sensitive space of communication and especially for military use. A reasonable conclusion is that the safeguarding of national confidentiality is directly challenged. We're talking about national confidentiality! When you have a national confidentiality that goes through Euro-Union, natonic formations and, at the same time, support is needed by the military that will choose private companies to achieve the 'long lines', we must at some point clarify what is national and what is not. Because there has been a lot of talk here on the subject of current news issues. The homogenisation at an organisational level with the corresponding legislation, as we see from all the bills and other bills, at the level of equipment and education, shows the extent of the integration of Greek operational projects into the service of the navals. So there are risks. Here, on the occasion of this bill, they are called and spoken with very great words and great words, such as that the army is all his life. The same person who has said it has lifted his hand under the swastika. So we know which army he means to be serious. There was also a concept, which is extremely dangerous when it comes to the army, to cut it off completely from the concept of the people. And that was on the occasion of hope and beating. If I'm not mistaken, they weren't wearing a uniform. He was on his way. So we've got a citizens' involvement on the road. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I won't take a seat. I'm against this kind of complicity. In front of you, you know who I am, I don't have to tell you. But be careful. There is a priesthood in the fact that the three who are hopeful have been beaten. What are we going to talk about here, ladies and gentlemen, if the hopes with politics were to be beaten? We're supposed to be talking. We therefore do not cut the hopeless, because they did not wear a uniform, from the entire Greek people to a conflict, which is a road conflict. It could be on a stadium, for example, to have houlging soldiers who have been out in uniform and have gone hooliganism. These, not to let ideas about the homeland, the nation, the nationalities, and identify them with formations. And because there was a lot of talk about the guerrilla songs, and if they heard, if they didn't hear, there were crowns on your side, we don't talk about it. I don't want to stay in this. I think your Secretary and your parliamentary representative have answered everything because it is ideological. You hid behind the F-16 questions. You were left to answer only at F-16, but in the question about Souda, for example, no one answered, as did the question about the other bases.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u613	Friday, Mrs. Canelley!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u614	Okay, Friday. But we are talking here today.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u615	Finish it, Mrs. Canelley.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u616	I shall conclude, Mr President. Believe me, you weren't here, but so far there have been excesses of an unbelievable kind and we haven't.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u617	Well, we won't net 'em now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u618	Oh, no. So let me close. You know, when someone asks for the curtain, even by the coup, they change the speech scenario. I imagine that since you are caught with a need for historical regression, theoretically and logically, since there is so much patriotism and so much indirect or direct effort not to match the naval interests, but to identify them, little would disagree. Today, I want to believe, in this Chamber and as we have 2017, with the last turn of the anthem of ELAS, which respects Greek history more than those who abuse it and rewrite it from the beginning: "With a thousand names a favor, criticizing it, reverent, thief, lad, always the Greek people." The MPs may change, the laws may change, the literaries of history change, the Greek people remain a lad and has proved it. Anyone who can't embrace this can write the story as he wants, but he'll read it alone and when her revenge comes, he'll pay for it alone again.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u619	Minister, would you like to present some kind of legislative improvement?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u620	It's important that Mr. Prison is here. The Minister's here, but now he's not here again. There are things that are broken. However, in the legal improvement, the word ‘objective’ is deleted. The Minister has already said that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u621	Mr. Katsiki, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u622	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u623	Come on, Mr. Katsiki!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u624	But how am I supposed to come when you're begging me to get started and not let me go?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u625	I'm sorry, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u626	At the same time, the Minister is not finished.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u627	At last, come on! It's time to hear you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u628	Mr President, I asked for three minutes of my seven.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u629	Good! Please, you have the floor. What do you want more? Do you want anything more than the speech? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u630	Thank you, Mr President. I shall begin with the positive result, which I draw from and conclude through this parliamentary debate on the fertileness of parliamentary dialogue, which has been the reason for the government's political leadership, the Minister and the Deputy Minister, to accept positions and opinions of colleagues so that they can compose such a picture that this bill can also be enriched with other positions and opinions which, either through amendments or through legislative improvements, contribute today so that this bill can be better, more operational and more beneficial. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, there were no shortages in this House and the conflicts that had to do with matters which were not included on the agenda and in the debate on this draft law. And because of this, sterile political tactics have emerged through shallow approaches, but also expressions of speech that do not look for the servants of the Greek Parliament, especially when they distort the truth and abuse the reality that I am obliged to restore at this point. We were told by my colleague, Commissioner, that he would treat with political courage this bill as he would vote eleven of the thirty articles. But a few minutes ago he told us that he will eventually reshape his original position by voting for fewer articles. And, thus, once again, it reduces this political bravery that it initially spoke about. And, of course, there was a lot of talk in this room about cubicity. If that is what the rapporteur of the New Democracy has done, ladies and gentlemen, I really do not know how we could call it. And while both the Deputy Minister and the Minister of National Defence have assured the plenary that the issues that we have been dealing with today are to be discussed today by the relevant parliamentary committees, either the Defence or the Exotics, in order to put things in their name and explain them to any reasonable questions that have been expressed today, but despite the assurances of the political leadership, they have been the subject - as I have said - of political controversy through - as I have seen - of the political confrontation and demagogy. As far as the amendments are concerned, we must accept that, as they appear to be, they will be accepted by the majority of the political forces, which means that this piece of legislation has improved even further by removing injustices for the benefit of all those who serve in the Armed Forces. To conclude on this point, Mr President, I would like to make a correction to one of the amendments I tabled. I am referring specifically to the amendment with a general number of 1312 and a specific number of 78. At the point it says: "... in paragraph 4 of Article 74 of Law 4485/2017, to add military schools, schools", the word "schools". Delete one, because by mistake...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u631	It's done.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u632	It is not really that change, that change, that of correction, which I would ask, but I am referring to a typographic error and nothing more. Finally, let me make another comment. Because it has been said, if I am not mistaken by the mouth of the rapporteur of the New Democracy that they should necessarily and only have the expertise of the economist who will be involved in the College of Economic Inspectors, I would therefore like to say that at the hearing of the bodies and that the IBC and IBC have said that auditors can be without this supply of legal or economic sciences, so that they can also offer the work of a new body, which, by the present legislation, will be able to take up work and act tomorrow. Furthermore, I would remind you that in other economic crime control services, we see that many of the qualities that are far from being identified, as expressed by the New Democracy colleague's mouth, could contribute, having the ability and proper assessment, in an effective way, to the benefit of the controls. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u633	Thank you, too. Mr. Saridis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u634	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the Central Association will vote 'at first' in this bill. I would like to say two - three words about some amendments. The first amendment is by general number 1306 and concerns the setting-up and staffing of the National Committee for Long Lines with ministerial decisions. We would like to know more fully from the signatory ministers what would be its framework of operation, which will be the subject of its work. And I ask these questions, because while we are aware of the sensitive nature of the issue of long lines and their safety, we cannot understand why you chose to surprise us and suggest in essence the creation of such an important committee with an amendment which provides for overpowering, but which actually leaves everything in ministerial decisions. We shall vote 'the present' on this amendment. After a first reading of the second amendment, which has a general number of 1307, and recommends the introduction of positions of Deputy Chief and Chief of Staff in GCM in place of positions I and II of Deputy General GCM, we have no objection and we will vote 'yes'. In Amendment No 1308 by which, as you said before, you are dealing with issues relating to postponing the ranking of the Armed Forces of the soldiers holding a doctoral degree and governing outside the country, as part of the mobilisation of Greek scientists, so that they do not leave abroad, we can only agree. That's all and nothing but that. In addition, to supplement the provisions of Articles 129 and 131 of previous Law 4472/2017, which extends for LAG members, the scope of the application of individual arrangements governing the salary regime of university membership members, we have nothing to agree on. With regard to the notorious article 4, which actually comes in the form of an amendment, instead of another comment, I would like to read to you an excerpt from an in-depth article by President Koukouravas: 'This particular regime of unfavourable career development constitutes in all respects injustice. That is why the honourable Members are looking to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for a definitive solution to the matter. The ambiguity of reasons, the dimension of intentions and acts with non-executive announcements and promises made without verification cannot be continued. There is a need for consistency and honesty, which the political leadership of the Ministry of Defence has proved to be in place. The state must finally stand up to the circumstances, showing proper reflexes for the final resolution of the matter." With regard to Article 27, you did not tell us, Minister, and the Central Association will vote against it. We were particularly impressed by how he had come, how the ministry reacted all this time with the notorious article 27. The only solution to this article was a temporary federation, equal to the number of founding members from the two federations, which exist and exist, and a reasonable time to go to elections. There was no other way. Any other solution will exacerbate the division that currently exists in Stratum. It is not the best possible in these days, as we are with all the risks that we have to face. You will now allow me to comment on the most important issue of the F-16, which has been so much heard in this Chamber and in the committees and in the media. I'll stay in the reassurances of the Deputy Minister and wait for confirmation. In any case November 2nd is very close next week. I would like to say a few things the Minister said. Because he's here, wherever he thinks it's not like that, he should come back and tell us. So the Minister said that the vast majority of the F-16s would be upgraded. He said that the budget will not exceed EUR 1.1 billion. Mr. Deputy Minister said that after the US Congress approves, it will be controlled and negotiated and the final agreement will come to Parliament. He said that of the 500 million per year of equipment, this money will come from the point of view of the Secretary-General and said that 50 and 50 jobs are created. That's what you said, Minister. That's what you'll be checking for tomorrow, tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u635	I don't have a problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u636	We're here. It's time to get close!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u637	Hey, don't tell me that now!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u638	All right, get it done.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u639	Ladies and gentlemen, in order to be useful to the Greek citizens, we must actually land. We must stop talking without thinking and at last begin to distinguish the serious issues. What Turkey is doing to consolidate its position on the global political chess board and in our region is well known and we will certainly not analyse it at the moment. Likewise, we should consider first whether the policies that we have at all other levels, apart from armaments, actually work banned and prevent us from being attacked by Turkey. What the Greek Armed Forces need to do, in order to continue to be able to effectively dissuade Turkey's expansionist plans, can tell us and are institutionally told by our own officers, who are serving the country from positions of responsibility. Once in this country, when voting on the budget, it was a parliamentary tradition that the opposition should vote in favour of the budget of the Ministry of National Defence. At one time, of course, there were also armaments orgasms. We can choose and keep the good parts of the post-multiple and learn from its negatives. Public confrontation on national and foreign policy issues can only be detrimental to the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u640	Thank you, too. Minister, would you like to add something?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u641	I would like to add a lot, Mr President, but is Mr Dannellis not going to speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u642	I'm not gonna talk to you to shorten up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u643	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u644	Thank you very much. As usual in the legislative initiatives of the Ministry of National Defence, comments have been received, which could be accepted. Comments have also been made, which, in our view, are correct, but more work and discussion are needed with the General Accounting Office of the State and with the Ministry of Finance, and that is why they have not been accepted. They are, however, issues that we will see. Comments have also been made which have not been accepted and I shall speak about some of them, to give some clarification. First of all, I say again for the most part - and the Minister said so, and I have said so again - to make it clear for both Mr Prussakis and the New Democracy - that the oral auction has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u645	The Minister said so.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u646	The House is addressed by the Minister and is also heard by the President of the Council.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u647	And the Minister said so, and you didn't happen to be there, they didn't let you know. The corresponding parliamentary procedure has also been carried out, Mr. Prussias...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u648	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u649	Don't insist on that. Secondly, as far as the funds of the share funds are concerned, there is agreement from the Ministry of Labour on the amendment. We told you before. I would like to stress that the concepts 'deposits of shareholders' and 'own funds', as referred to in Article 47 of Law No4387/2016, do not exist within the statutory provisions of the shareholder funds. There are no such concepts. So when we talk about this, we're not dealing with the state budget. It's not state budget resources. That is why we need to make that clear, and in fact we are doing so. I repeat, there is the consent of the Ministry of Labour. In this way and in this amendment we ensure the sustainability of the share funds, which was a request from all the groups and I think they did well. A third question is that there is a insistence on the internal control unit. I understand that there is not so much interest in having an internal audit at the Ministry and in the procedures, but the only interest is that there should be an audit of the Minister. The Minister shall be controlled by Parliament and the courts if Parliament decides. It's adequately checked to the extent that we want to. Poor previous governments had not adopted such procedures. That is why we say that we have all the procedures for the control of political persons and we need to start the inspection procedures - if you like - and the staff. That's our main slogan, and that's why we insist. There is one more matter I want to talk to you about. We've done a process - because Mr. Loverdos put it in - on matters of widowhood and the LEADER. Of course every political force, in my opinion, has the right to legislative initiative and for us the proposals are acceptable and can be discussed. We've done a process. We're in the process of testimony, and we're explaining sufficiently - and I think it's going to pass - because the soldiers' widows are in a lesser position. I would like to mention the widows of the three executives in China and of the four executives - thankfully the girl lived and wished for a long time - in Sarandaporo. We are now talking about women who, due to frequent transfer, cannot find work in the private sector. We are talking more about these cases. Isn't that right? That's unfair. So we've worked it out. The second issue concerns allowances. Watch out, what we are saying - and I think this will be solved and not as you say - is that since these pay benefits are in place, in order to be completely fair, there should be a slight exception to the ceiling for pension benefits that is to say. That's the basic thing. We put them on the payroll, so they can find them in front of them. That is the central issue. Because if we start to distinguish them, at the end of the day, I hope it doesn't happen, we're going to step on it. I'm ending up with two issues. On the question of the ranks of 2002, which is Article 14, we say that we want the basic staff - of course there will be others - to be captains. The ones who were in the classroom of 2002, right now they're majors. We also want majors, but we want most personnel to be captains. So since 2004, everyone has been involved, that is, we are not excluded in 2007, in 2005, in 2004. On the issue of shipyards, we will be discussing again in committee, but I am slowly beginning to fail to understand. One thing is that all the information we have is from the Legal Council of the State. As far as I know, the ICC ruling, the International Court of Justice, has not yet been published. So we've all got the information from somewhere. We have it from the Legal Council of the State. I have to tell you...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u650	We all have her from somewhere.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u651	Well, when they're in the club, they're experts, lawyers...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u652	The union, however, has advisers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u653	But I say to you this: In the last two and a half years, unionists - and not the entire union - have closed it down four and five times. This is not how the yards are closed. As far as the procedure is concerned, we are not going to find it with ownership, which - if you like - is pre-existing and which has brought the shipyards into this state. Because with all the political mistakes or the political nonsense you have said before - I am not saying it - it is not my fault that the property should come out intact, or the good or the one that has tried, etc. Don't go crazy. To have a balance on this matter. So I will not agree, and I do not think anyone in this House raises such a matter. I say this: we will go to committee. I, following the decision of the International Court of Justice, called for the Legal Council of the State. Apart from bringing me a report on the decision, we also held a meeting on the decision. What I'm telling you, I didn't make it out of my mind. I did it with the suffering of the questions, because I have a way of dealing with my personal ignorance. I'm asking questions. That's what we all have to do. I don't invent things. That's how we move forward. Finally, I think that the bill we are debating today is a good bill, and that will also prove to be the vote. I tell you that Article 27 will prove prophetic in order to resolve issues and not to complicate them. First of all, what you propose, that the parties gather, discuss and end up somewhere is good. Unfortunately, so far I do not see it happening and, unfortunately, I do not see at secondary level, there are consents. But life will find its way. If a request is right, it will find its answer. Finally, Mr Saridis, all the things you have read about me, I want to say that it is correct. Yeah, that's what I said. There will be a debate on Friday. Do not give too much weight from now on and next week on the issue of compensatory benefits. Here too, there will be a good solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u654	Thank you. I have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights has forwarded to Parliament, in accordance with Article 86 of the Constitution and Law 3126/2003 "Prime Responsibility of the Ministers", as in force on 24 October 2017, a criminal case for the Minister of Health Mr. Andreas Xanthos and a criminal case for the former Minister of National Defence Mr.Ioannis Papantoniou. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles, amendments and all of the draft law of the Ministry of National Defence is adjourned: 'Consolidating the career and development of officials and financial care and accounting of the Armed Forces, setting up a Joint College of Economic Inspectors and other provisions'. Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u655	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u656	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u657	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u658	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u659	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u660	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u661	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u662	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u663	Consequently, the bill of the Ministry of National Defence: “Consolidations on careers and development of executives and financial care and accounting of the Armed Forces, the setting up of a Joint College of Financial Inspectors and other provisions” was accepted in principle by a majority. We are entering the vote on the articles and they will be voted on separately. Can Rule 1, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u664	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u665	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u666	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u667	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u668	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u669	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u670	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u671	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u672	Article 1 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 2 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u673	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u674	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u675	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u676	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u677	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u678	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u679	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u680	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u681	Article 2 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 3 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u682	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u683	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u684	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u685	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u686	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u687	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u688	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u689	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u690	Article 3 was therefore accepted as a majority. Article 4 shall be deleted and the other Articles shall be renumbered. Can the House accept the new Article 4, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u691	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u692	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u693	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u694	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u695	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u696	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u697	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u698	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u699	The new Article 4 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept the new Article 5 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u700	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u701	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u702	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u703	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u704	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u705	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u706	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u707	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u708	The new Article 5 has therefore been accepted as a majority. Does this House accept the new Article 6 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u709	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u710	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u711	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u712	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u713	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u714	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u715	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u716	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u717	The new Article 6 has therefore been accepted as a majority. Can the House accept the new Article 7, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u718	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u719	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u720	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u721	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u722	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u723	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u724	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u725	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u726	The new Article 7 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept the new Article 8 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u727	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u728	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u729	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u730	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u731	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u732	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u733	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u734	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u735	The new Article 8 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept the new Article 9 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u736	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u737	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u738	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u739	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u740	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u741	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u742	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u743	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u744	The new Article 9 has therefore been accepted as a majority. Can the House accept the new Article 10, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u745	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u746	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u747	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u748	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u749	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u750	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u751	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u752	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u753	The new Article 10 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Can the House accept the new Article 11, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u754	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u755	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u756	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u757	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u758	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u759	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u760	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u761	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u762	The new Article 11 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does the House agree to the new Article 12, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u763	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u764	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u765	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u766	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u767	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u768	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u769	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u770	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u771	The new Article 12 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does the House agree to the new Article 13, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u772	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u773	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u774	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u775	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u776	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u777	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u778	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u779	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u780	The new Article 13 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does the House agree to the new Article 14 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u781	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u782	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u783	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u784	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u785	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u786	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u787	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u788	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u789	The new Article 14 has therefore been accepted as a majority. Does this House accept the new Article 15 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u790	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u791	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u792	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u793	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u794	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u795	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u796	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u797	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u798	The new Article 15 has therefore been accepted as a majority. Does this House accept the new Article 16 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u799	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u800	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u801	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u802	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u803	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u804	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u805	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u806	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u807	The new Article 16 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 17 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u808	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u809	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u810	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u811	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u812	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u813	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u814	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u815	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u816	The new Article 17 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept the new Article 18 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u817	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u818	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u819	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u820	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u821	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u822	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u823	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u824	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u825	The new Article 18 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept the new Article 19 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u826	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u827	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u828	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u829	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u830	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u831	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u832	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u833	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u834	The new Article 19 has therefore been accepted as a majority. Can the House accept the new Article 20, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u835	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u836	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u837	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u838	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u839	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u840	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u841	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u842	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u843	The new Article 20 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept the new Article 21 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u844	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u845	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u846	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u847	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u848	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u849	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u850	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u851	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u852	The new Article 21 was therefore accepted as a majority. Can the House accept the new Article 22, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u853	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u854	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u855	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u856	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u857	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u858	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u859	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u860	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u861	The new Article 22 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept the new Article 23 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u862	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u863	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u864	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u865	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u866	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u867	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u868	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u869	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u870	The new Article 23 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept the new Article 24 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u871	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u872	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u873	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u874	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u875	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u876	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u877	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u878	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u879	The new Article 24 has therefore been accepted as a majority. Does the House agree to the new Article 25, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u880	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u881	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u882	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u883	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u884	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u885	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u886	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u887	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u888	The new Article 25 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does the House accept the new Article 26, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u889	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u890	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u891	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u892	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u893	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u894	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u895	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u896	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u897	The new Article 26 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept the new Article 27 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u898	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u899	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u900	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u901	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u902	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u903	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u904	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u905	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u906	The new Article 27, therefore, has been accepted as a majority. Does this House accept the new Article 28 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u907	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u908	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u909	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u910	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u911	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u912	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u913	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u914	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u915	The new Article 28 therefore has been accepted as a majority. Can the House accept the new Article 29, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u916	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u917	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u918	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u919	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u920	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u921	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u922	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u923	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u924	The new Article 29 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does the House accept the new Article 30 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u925	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u926	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u927	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u928	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u929	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u930	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u931	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u932	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u933	The new Article 30, therefore, has been accepted as a majority. Does the House accept Rule 31 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u934	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u935	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u936	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u937	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u938	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u939	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u940	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u941	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u942	The new Article 31 has therefore been accepted as a majority. Is the amendment accepted under a general number of 1306 and a special number of 72?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u943	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u944	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u945	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u946	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u947	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u948	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u949	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u950	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u951	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1306 and a special 72 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number of 1307 and a special number of 73?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u952	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u953	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u954	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u955	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u956	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u957	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u958	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u959	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u960	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1307 and a special 73 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number of 1309 and a special number of 75?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u961	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u962	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u963	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u964	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u965	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u966	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u967	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u968	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u969	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1309 and a special 75 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does this House accept the amendment with a general number of 1311 and a special number 77 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u970	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u971	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u972	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u973	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u974	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u975	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u976	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u977	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u978	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1311 and a special 77 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does this House accept the amendment with a general number of 1312 and a special 78 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u979	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u980	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u981	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u982	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u983	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u984	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u985	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u986	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u987	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1312 and a special 78 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does this House accept the amendment with a general number of 1315 and a special number of 79 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u988	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u989	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u990	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u991	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u992	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u993	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u994	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u995	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u996	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1315 and a special 79 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does this House accept the amendment with a general number of 1316 and a special number of 80 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u997	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u998	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u999	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u1000	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u1001	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u1002	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u1003	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u1004	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u1005	So the amendment with a general number of 1316 and a special 80 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same articles. Does the House accept the amendment with a general number of 1317 and a special number of 81 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u1006	Who's that? She came to the end.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u1007	She came to the end. I've got her as a void.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u1008	It is right that anyone who objects here to Amendment 81. Up to ten minutes before going up to the Step, there were four parliamentary amendments. Suddenly, we're out of a fifth.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u1009	It is amended by Articles 11 and 13 of Law 4407/16.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u1010	So it comes to you to say 'no' just because it's last minute and we don't know what it's all about. It refers to land rental, 15% of their value. We didn't even talk about her.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u1011	Wait a minute. Do you remember the law created by PAPETH? There were two cases. One case was private. The second case was the Ottas. In this case, then, we add the same thing to sports clubs.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u1012	When are we gonna talk about this?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u1013	It is, however, out of discussion.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u1014	He's out of conversation. It's outrageous. It's out of conversation. Trust me. Maybe I wanted to talk about it, tell you five things. It's outrageous. It could be seven and five, Mr President, but it's outrageous. Trust me. I am in the mood to vote on it and I shall say 'no'.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u1015	Mr President, it is clear. We're not making the luxuries here! We know that when it comes to amendments accepted by the ministers, they also come quickly, but not so. Let's do it next time!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u1016	The next time can be after a few months, in some law. I do not know the amendment very well.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u1017	Tomorrow we have a draft law.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u1018	I don't know if there's a matter of deadlines.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u1019	It wasn't discussed!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u1020	If I may, an hour ago, the Minister of National Defence was here and developed it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u1021	I wasn't in the Chair. If the Minister develops it, we shall vote. Does the House accept the amendment with a general number of 1317 and a special number of 81 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u1022	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u1023	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u1024	Oh, no. That is why we do not know her, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u1025	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u1026	Here you go. The JRC doesn't play games. I do not know the subject, and I do not want to stop, which may mean the exploitation of sports clubs. Therefore, I am honestly going to tell you, referring to you, a 'PARON', that I will not block anything, in the belief that my protests are fully accepted, of the way in which it was discussed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u1027	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u1028	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u1029	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u1030	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1317 and a special 81 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u1031	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u1032	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u1033	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u1034	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u1035	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u1036	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u1037	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u1038	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u1039	The Court of First Instance, acting by a majority of the Members of the European Parliament, held that the Court of First Instance had no Consequently, the bill of the Ministry of National Defence: “Consolidations on careers and development of executives and financial care and accounting of the Armed Forces, setting up a Joint College of Financial Inspectors and other provisions” was accepted in principle and in the articles by a majority. Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u1040	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u1041	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u1042	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u1043	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u1044	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u1045	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u1046	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u1047	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u1048	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the Bill of the Ministry of National Defence: ‘Consolidations on careers and development of executives and financial care and accounting of the Armed Forces, setting up a Joint College of Financial Inspectors and other provisions’, was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, on the principle of Articles and of the whole, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u1049	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u1050	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-25-S1-commons.u1051	With the consent of the House at the time of 19.20 the meeting is closed for tomorrow, Thursday, October 26, 2017 at 9.30' on the subject of the House's work: a) parliamentary control, topical questions debate and b) legislative work, only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: "Definition of the Memorandum of Understanding and the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the United States of America on the improvement of international tax compliance and the application of the Tax Compliance Act (FATCA), as well as the Competent Authorities Agreement and implementing provisions", in accordance with the agenda distributed.
