ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-15-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent question issue of Friday 16 June 2017. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by number 1019/13-6-2017 of the Member of the Dodecanese Coalition of the Radical Left, Elias Kamaterou, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: 'Spatial Travel Tourism'. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Halkidiki of New Democracy Mr Georgios Vagios Vagionas, the Minister of Economy and Development, on "The threat of a bandage for thousands of bakeries". 3. The current question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMARKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKEGGGGKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKGROKEKEKEKEKIKIKIKIKKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKOKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKOGOGOGOKKKKKOGOGGGANGANGANKIKIKIKIKIKKKIKIKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKKOGOKOKOGOGOGOGOKOGOKOKOKOGANKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOGOKOKOGOGOGOGOGOKKKKKKKOKOKOKOKOKOKKKKKKKOKOKKKKOKOKKKKKKKKKKKKKKOKOKOKOKKKKKKOKKKOKANDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDD 4. The question asked by MP Lesvos of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Stavros Tassos to the Minister for the Environment and Energy on the operation and development of the Institute for Geological and Mining Research (IGME). B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 986/9-6-2017 by the Member of the Dodecanese Parliament, Mr Emmanuel Konsolas, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the abolition of Rhodes and Kos real estate offices. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Under No 925/1-6-2017, a topical question by Evia MP of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Nicholas Michou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "The installation of 209 new wind turbines in southern Karysia, threatens biodiversity and economy". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Question No 5542/10-5-2017 by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMARKKKKIKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKIKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKIKOKOKOKOKOKOKIKOKOKOKOKOKIKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKIKOKOKOKOKMKOKOKOKIKOKOKOKOKOKOKMKOKOKOKOKOKOKIKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKKKOKKKKKKKKKKKKKNKKKKKKKKKKKKKKNKNDINDINDINDINDINDINDINDINDINDINKNORKNORKNORKNORKNORKNORKNORKINDINDINDINDINDINDINDINDINDINDINDINDINDINDINDINDGOKOKOKNORKNORKOKOKOKNORKNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNORKINDINDINDINDINDINDINDINDINKNNORKNORKNNNNNORKNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNOR "IN Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS The first question will be debated under number 983/9-6-2017 by the Member of Parliament, Aetolokarnania, New Democracy, Marios Salma, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "The OPEKEEE Cross-checks in Lepennos Itonokarnania". Mr. Salma, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-15-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the issue that I have chosen today to ask you with a timely question for debate in this House is a delicate matter. It is up to the State and the public administration to control where it grants and supports economic businesses or individuals. I would therefore like to make it clear at the outset that we are in favour of controls. It goes without saying that the sanctions provided for by the legislation in the case of citizens - in this case farmers - who are violating not only the Greek legislation but also the Community legislation of the European Union and violating these principles, are primarily being undermined by the sector which, in this case, is serving the livestock sector. In this case, Minister, in the Lepenou region of Ioannina, a check was carried out in January, in the snow, by OPEKEPE, as the agency is entitled to do, in order to check whether there is the livestock that farmers are saying in order to obtain subsidies. I must tell you that this area has been living from livestock for years. It's a basic source of wealth production. In recent years there have been no cases where it can be seen that something is going wrong. However, this check has shown that virtually half of the animals declared do not exist, and this also jeopardises the continued financing of these farmers, but also possibly matters of refund. The question I would like to ask today is this: was there such an infringement? The state where he was and allowed this infraction? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Take the time from my dentistry. Was there a mechanism in place to get the farmers' registers right? Were there other areas in Greece, where during the summer vaccinations the registers of local farmers were properly carried out by the Departments of Agriculture and Veterinary Affairs? In Preveza in August 2016, when the vaccinations were carried out, stockfarmers' registers were also made. In Haitolo-Carnania, this was not the case, and suddenly an attack showed that the state was subsidising half of animals for no reason. Even from this government, that is to say, for two years you have been giving subsidies and Community aid, without any livestock being present. So the point I am raising today is whether the preventive procedure has been properly carried out by the relevant directorates so that there is no infringement. The second question I am asking is whether the medical services in these areas are sufficiently staffed. The third is whether the way in which the inspection is carried out, in order to determine the age of an animal, is the way that has been carried out in that control. I would like to ask what is going to happen with the objections. Even though, according to information, there may be complaints of citizens in justice about illegality, the state must function independently of the control of justice, which can also do two and three and five years to finalise, and people will expect from the state, at least those who are honest and who had animals, but who did not have time in one day to show them, to see what is going to happen with subsidies. I would also like to tell you that there was no fraud, because of the twelve thousand animals there were six and a half thousand. With five thousand animals, therefore, subsidies and financial aid would be granted. So there was no objective of this deception. In any case, because an entire society is locked up, I would like the Minister's answer through this timely question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-15-S1-commons.u3	Mr. Apostle, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-15-S1-commons.u4	Mr Colleague, this is a very delicate matter. I'm happy for your folding. What you refer to in the question is quite different from what you orally develop. So you do not adopt all these phrases of misinterpretation, of the behaviour of the officials, of the auditors who have attempted to cause a problem. So how the state machine was operating now, yesterday, yesterday, and so on, it is an issue that we can talk about - we have no question - but we are obliged to carry out checks. Our obligation stems from Union and national legislation, and in this particular case we have had too many complaints. I'm telling you, in the past, we've done tests on large samples. But there has always been a feeling that our control was essentially to try to highlight specific cases. What did we do now? We approached as far as possible the real livestock that existed in the area. In cooperation with the Veterinary Directorate, we tried to elect the veterinary database. The audit has been carried out and carried out on an equal footing with all, in conditions of complete transparency. We operated in such a way as not to cut producers off for formal violations, such as passports, registries, etc. As you have said - and indeed it is a delicate matter - we are trying as hard as possible not to create additional problems. We have shown real understanding in cases of weakness. We did not want to create or create tensions in the region. Of course, we have presented an audit mechanism in the direction of judiciary and not with a punishing and avengeing person. In this context, therefore, an audit was organised and coordinated by the Internal Audit Directorate, the Director of which was present and supervised control at all stages. Producers have been notified in all possible ways, which is not the case in our regular checks. We accepted the transfer of the original check date up to the end of the week for those producers who requested it because of the failure to collect their herd, which is not the case for the remaining regular checks, particularly - and I stress this - because we really wanted to see the problem in this area, without creating additional issues. This means that, by way of derogation from the regulations, we have, in many cases, exceeded the one provided for in the Regulation for a forty-eight-hour. No farmer held passports and registers which are mandatory to determine the eligibility of the holding. In order not to reject the entire village, however, and by way of derogation from the forecasts, we have contacted the Association of Agricultural Cooperatives Agrinio to make us all the registers with the Veterinary Directorate and to issue all the passports to us. That is why we did not complete the audit reports on the ground, because if we were to fill them on the spot and deliver them, we would have to consider them as ineligible. Of course, the Minutes were signed after each check was completed and not before, as falsely referred to in protests. In addition, the producers were informed when they signed the minutes both of the result of the verification and of their ability to submit their objection within 10 days following the official receipt of the minutes. To date, they have used this possibility, namely, the submission of objections, fifty-seven farmers who, of course, will be examined by the competent OPECE committee. Mr President, I shall refer to the conclusion and what we will do from there.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-15-S1-commons.u5	Mr. Salma, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-15-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Minister. First of all, because you and I are old parliamentarians, we know that parliamentary control does not always involve political prevalence. In essence, it is sometimes done to look at issues where a part of the local society thinks it should have a clear response from the Ministry. In any case, even your protology will enlighten an entire society, which has been waiting so long for a responsible response from a minister's mouth. Obviously, what you are saying is judged and, obviously, the citizens are now being informed. But what I want to say is that I have not been folded. If you look at my question in detail, I say that there are complaints from farmers about what the auditors have done or have not done. Because, in the process of petitions, any petition from citizens or complaints is signed by the Members and comes to the House in response, how much more than a timely question does there not exist the right of a politician to ask the Minister's answer and position on complaints and petitions of citizens? This is ethical and is provided for by parliamentary control. I would, however, like you, as you have rightly promised, to give an answer on what is going to happen, because I told you that the question is of an information nature and that the citizens need to know what is going to happen. It is a society that today watches and wants to see what is going to happen with the objections, how the state has not yet made the registrars of a village. What does it mean 'have ordered the Union and the DAG to make registries'? So where's the state? It's been five months. How long does it take to build the registers, to convince all the Greeks who hear you want to make registries so they won't be held hostage to control an area? Obviously not until today's registries have not been made. Tell when it is planned to happen, because they were not done while in other regions they were, as I mentioned to you, if this involves administrative responsibilities, if you asked for responsibility from the administration that allowed these few - how many - who have committed infringements to be financed illegally. Aren't you going to ask for responsibility from the administration? If there is an infringement, is the administration not responsible for allowing the infringement? So, what does anyone want to say in the country? It is an institutional issue that I asked you today and I did not receive an answer to this issue so far. So at least give me a specific answer for what I told you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-15-S1-commons.u7	Thank you. I am rather beyond my role, but because of the in-depth knowledge of this issue and because there are complaints to the prosecutor and so that we do not get to the partition situations, the registries issue is fundamental, Minister. The registers should be reviewed, if you like as a self-critic attitude for what has happened in the past, Mr Salma. We all have to admit that. I'm no longer over my role. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-15-S1-commons.u8	Mr President, Mr President, you can understand that when we receive a portfolio of a ministry where the first we find before us is 3 billion fines and charges, transferring this to the ground as a whole so that we can get to a point where these fines can be stopped and these charges need a lot of work. That's why I told you I wouldn't go back to who's fault or whatever. We found a situation that needs a great deal of effort to overturn. The counting of the animal population throughout Greece is not an easy case. I'm saying that for those who know what's going on. But it is within our planning, because then we will only end up in the integration of the registers, Mr President. But now, because we are talking about a specific check, talking about and adopting complaints from controlled...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-15-S1-commons.u9	I didn't.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-15-S1-commons.u10	No, that's what you did, excuse me. With your question, you are basically accepting the complaints, because there is a check and I told you that this is a very delicate matter. So I'll tell you right now what the check has shown. Animals found ineligible because of a different age were particularly evident in cases. In particular, in total 4,153 measured animals, 324 belonged to this category. Despite the seriousness of the control and the large number of producers and auditors, the slightest intensity was not created. In addition, the cafeteria, which was the place of meetings of auditors and producers and was signed by the minutes, existed throughout the week. They were even local journalists. It has not been moved from anywhere that there was a relative tension like that described in the timely question. On the day of inspection at night we had complaints that animals were transporting trucks from other areas. Also, in various cases it was evident that the herd was not the controlled farmer. OPEKEPE believes that about 15% of the animals counted were transported. I tell you the truths, what really lies ahead of us and you understand what efforts we need to make. Nevertheless, our aim was to correct this chronological situation on the substance and most of it. The difference between the declared and the eligible animals was about 60%. That's a large percentage. Of these, the effect on the payment of the associateds is as follows: Fifteen controlleds have a deviation rate of up to zero negative. Payments are normally made in this case. Thirteen audited have a deviation of between 0% and 20%. They'll have a penalty payment. Twenty-four audited have a percentage of 20% to 50%. They won't be paid. These payments are related to the regulation. We don't decide. One hundred and fifty controlled persons have a rate of deviation greater than or equal to 50%. They will not be paid, but they will also have sanctions in relation to the previous ones. As regards the payment of the basic payment, penalties are expected to be smaller, as the 2016 payment was made on the basis of the eligible pasture. The OPECE, within the framework of its responsibilities and the cooperation envisaged between the relevant departments, has sent the inspection reports to the DAG for this purpose, by applying its own procedures, to proceed, as I have said before, with the update of the veterinary database. The first thing we are going to do, namely OPECE, is to look at the objections. I repeat. We have fifty-seven objections from the hundred eighty-seven checked. This means that problems with sanctions have a small part of those that have undergone these checks and problems have arisen. They have objected. Since, however, my dear fellow Member, there are serious indications that this is an organised undertaking to mislead the principles and to violate the relevant Community regulations, we will refer the case to justice. At the same time, we are aware that because we want to support livestock farming, we will continue the controls in other regions too. It must be understood that the specific resources which are all influencing the space, the corresponding Community resources in the area, bring them all. The point is that they cannot be managed by means of procedures at the expense of those who respect legality. This will come out of this process.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-15-S1-commons.u11	Now, from 0% to 20%, Minister, you need to run out of grace. However, thank you very much for the answer. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that the Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics is tabling its reports on the request of the Prosecutor for the granting of the authorisation of criminal prosecution against MPs. Next is the third with number 989/9-6/2017, topical question by the Member of Parliament of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Koutsoukos to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: “In the insecurity of thousands of pensioners who also have agricultural income, due to the provisions on the reduction of pensions under Article 20 of Law No.4387/2016.” Mr. Kutsuko, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-15-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. We do not want to trouble Mr Petropoulos, who is one of the most consistent members of the government, like Mr Apostleus, so as not to blame him. Because some of us are looking for them. And there is an excuse when they negotiate in Brussels, but not when they are around here. Mr President, you know that many times they violate the Rules of Procedure and ignore any parliamentary ethics.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-15-S1-commons.u13	Only the presents happen to be the most consistent, right?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-15-S1-commons.u14	That's right. So Mr Petropoulos has been here several times to respond to an issue that the government itself created. With Law No.4387, the so-called Katrugalou law, which has many problems and emerge daily, has created a climate of enormous insecurity and uncertainty to thousands of pensioners and workers, because Article 20 provides that anyone who is legally resident in the ECA will have a 20% reduction in his pension. Older laws provided for a cut-off only to anyone taking up work. The government has made this enlargement. And following the protests, the questions - and my own and the Democratic Alliance and other colleagues - the government has partially resolved the issue of the pensioners of the OGA, as it said that they will not have cuts until the system is completed, i.e. up to 1-1-2025. They'll be over there. That is a question we need to discuss if it is right. For the rest, however, whether it is a microprofessional who was at the OAU or a builder who was in IKA or a hotel employee who has a farm, traditionally, to complete his income or to acquire it from an inheritance because his father died and leaves him with a meltdown, the government does not officially answer with a circular as it did for farmers. Mr Petropoulos, here in the House, in reply to Mr Kegeroglou and Mrs Christophilopoulou, has said that if they come out after May 2016, when the Katorugalou law was implemented, they will have cut or imply that they will also have cutbacks if they are old pensioners but they acquire the status, for example. from legacy to the future. If that is the case, Mr Petropoulou, you are making a very big mistake. This arbitrary expansion of the cut is punishable for thousands of pensioners. You have to answer and correct it. That's what my question is about. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-15-S1-commons.u15	Mr. Petersburg, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-15-S1-commons.u16	Thank you very much, Mr President. I have clearly stated that those who were retired, any category and older bodies, up to 12 May, who had requested and established a pension right up to that time when the application was submitted, have no cut in their pension because they had at the same time, as is customary in Greek society, and a farm. What we need to look at is whether it serves agricultural production and its organisation to have cases where - and I know such cases - other categories of insured, not farmers and are not mostly farmers' professions, should be treated the same way as farmers. Because if that happens, then we will have an unfair, completely competitive relationship to the detriment of farmers and other categories. Are you going to tell me, is it so important to pay insurance contributions from some who have such an activity? It is, however, an advantage that we want to keep for farmers, that is to say, they can have an exemption of up to 31/12-2024 from the provision that stipulates that there will be a reduction in pension and income contribution. We said that this would not happen until December 2024. And it is also not the case for those who are insured, retired or become retired with an application submitted up to 12 May 2016. Let me inform you, Mr. Koutsouko, as well as the Greek people that by December 2016, because this is the period of interest we are interested in, the period in which some may become retired and subject to Article 20, we had approximately thirty thousand applications for retirement. That's all of them. And, of course, the thirty thousand are certainly not cases that have a rural lot. And if some of them have a farm lot, they're not all agricultural subsidized activities. I have said that the renting of fields, the rental of activities receiving subsidies does not fall under the case of the acquisition of income from cultivation and from activity. So there is an alternative for those occasionally doing this job. And, of course, it is not a farm income the product produced to meet the grower's family needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-15-S1-commons.u17	Mr. Kutsuko, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-15-S1-commons.u18	I'm sorry, Minister, but your approach is completely wrong. It's a punishment. To solve the problem of the competitiveness of other farmers, to die for the neighbour's goat, namely to punish the one who has an additional income. I said that either he was a small-professional in the village or he was a builder, a hotel employee, and even a public employee, who had a farm income, when the time comes to get his pension, for whom he has paid contributions - and he will get an aid, because with cuts and reductions in return, it will actually be an aid from the Katrogalos law - you will cut him down by 60%. So you will force him into a militaristic modernisation, and we need the Ministry of Rural Development to cut down, that is, the trees and the garden he inherited or rented. Who's going to rent a small farm? These are small farms for which it receives a small subsidy, which you have made taxable income. That's why he'll have the cut-off. If we take the case of what is an old retired person and at the moment has no cutback, if for some reason they acquire the status for which Article 20 says, that is, his parent died and he inherited the helmet, will he be cut off? What's to do with the loastage? What can the trees do? Who's gonna take over to take advantage of it? Do you understand what you're doing? I think you haven't realised them. In any case, because you vote and you vote, you have the possibility of correcting Article 20. I repeat that this is a great injustice and a punishing process, which is not about the reconstruction of the agricultural sector on the basis of what you have said about unfair or unequal competition. In any case, we are in a transitional phase. In any case, then, you have an obligation, as you did with the circular on 20 April, to reply to those people who are thousands, whether they are retired or ready to be retired - and now the deadline, which the Minister knows, is now ending, in order to make the statements of the UCLAF, as is the deadline for the transfer of rights - so that at least they can take their measures. So take your responsibility. Put your signature on a circular, so people know who is responsible for the cuts that will take place tomorrow. Do you think that because you are not going to do it and the next ones will do it, will you get out of the citizens' tenure because the 2017 declarations have not been submitted or have not been retired? I think, however, that your approach is completely wrong, because it is at the expense of the authorities of the insurance system. He pays contributions, has a reward, now will you cut his pension and get him to pay additional contributions? Are you going to give him a second pension? I think, Minister, you're making a major mistake. A piece of production will be lost, because no one will go to pick up and cultivate this little lot, or they will flow towards tax evasion, so that they do not declare income or have no cuts. However, it is irrational how you approach the issue and punishing it, and I think you can correct it. Moreover, the answer you give with the circular for the members of the OGA says about the activities that are covered by its insurance, based on the regulations of the funds that have been incorporated into the ECA. These accusations, Minister, as you well know, were not subject to OGA insurance on the basis of the regulation, which has not changed. So why do you make this broad interpretation? To save from these cuts any further revenue? You've made five billion cuts in insurance. That's enough! Let's not punish everyone. Let me hope that in your dentistry you will give a shine of light to these thousands of pensioners and workers, who are insecurity and uncertainty. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-15-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-15-S1-commons.u20	Mr Kutsuko, I am sure you understand what I am saying, but you want to say things that create a negative impression. As you know, I, too, come from an olive-growing area that has agricultural production and I know what this provision and treatment means in this way of small cultivation. It's not unfair, it's not punishable. Because what arises from the law and its application, with the circulars I have published, is not about the small grower who makes the oil of the house. We are talking about crops which have a high performance. Not only subsidies, but production, as a result of large farming areas. It is not about the income resulting from the subsidy, which is generally spent on the crop itself, such as putting fertilisers, giving dirt, taking peanuts. Therefore, there will be no income, no positive result. What I have said is that we are interested in the great production, the production that really is profitable to the one who makes it. Indeed, I have said on several occasions, for example, to previous questions by your colleagues, that I know very well and very well and very personally doctors and lawyers who have more incomes than these crops, rather than their jobs. There are cases like this. These are extremes, of course. It's extreme. We are talking about huge facilities and crops. What do we do? Will they not, then, have the treatment that the social security system holds to anyone who retires, that is to say, shut down his activity? That's always the case. The worker had this treatment for his insurance. The shopkeeper, mostly, to get a pension from the OAU, had to shut down his shop. So did the lawyer, he had to stop legal activity. So is the doctor. It was everywhere in the social security system. It is not the same thing as agricultural production. It's another thing the rural land is. It's not a shop where you lock it up and you leave. That is why we need to see it differently. I'm explaining what's different. The field my father has and he gives it to his grandson will not give the production from which the living needs will be met, to live from the incomes of a person. In these cases, therefore, there is no reduction in the pension and the imposition of a levy, because there will be no such a contradiction. In other words, there will be no positive effect on one's activity, because it takes a subsidy, which is generally too small in these cases. It will not exceed EUR 1,500. I know it's about 1,800 euros. Such an activity is exclusively for the needs of the family. What you're saying is not going to happen.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-15-S1-commons.u21	Say it in writing.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-15-S1-commons.u22	We'll see about it in practice. We've got a long time ahead of us. Let's see how it goes this year and see if such consequences really arise. We need to see if that's the case. But I told you that thirty thousand are all applications made. Of these, usually 10% is rejected, because it does not retire for formal reasons. I mean, we'll have about twenty-seven thousand applications. Not everyone is with crops and not all with subsidised crops. Let's see what's going on. I told you the other one, there's a lease solution. It happens all over the villages. You give each other the field and you get five tanks of oil. That's what happens. We know it's happening. There are several ways. But, anyway, we will see from the application of the year how these conclusions are to be drawn and come back to the next phase, to see if any particular approaches are needed. I do not, in general, deny to see matters more efficiently, but at the moment I think that there is no problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-15-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Minister. In the absence of Minister Ahchioglu abroad, and in Luxembourg in particular, the following questions will not be discussed: The fifth, under number 1021/13-2017, a top-level question for the first cycle of the MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthakis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the redundancies of six workers and the external threats of the company "BIOKALIERGES OF S.A." to workers. The fifth question, under number 1022/13-2017, is the second question of the Athens Parliamentary II of the Communist Party of Greece, Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the reconstructing of the Labour Housing and Housing Organizations. The seventh under number 944/6-2017 topical question of the second-cycle MP Achaias of the Communist Party of Greece.Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the problems of workers in the professional refrigerator industry "FRIGOGLASS S.A." in the Netherlands, Achaia, Achaia. The Member, George Lazaridis, shall request permission from a short-day absence abroad from 17 June to 19 June 2017. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-15-S1-commons.u24	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Now we will discuss the second question with number 972-6-2017 in the first cycle of the MP Iraklio of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMARK KEGEROGlou Vassiliou to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "The regulation of the hundreds of twenty-dollars for all due debts to the municipalities must be implemented." Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-15-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, we had discussed this at the beginning of the year, in January, and you announced at the end of January that a bill on general self-government issues is being tabled and that there will be a sustainable provision within it, as we were calling for, with more than a hundred instalments of municipal debts to the municipalities and municipal companies, so that they too can manage and pay the municipalities - at least those who want and have the will - but also the municipalities to collect revenue and increase their liquidity from sources that are inactive, precisely because of the inability to pay out of consumers. I would therefore like to see today why we have arrived in June and this provision has not yet been tabled. Okay, the bill may be about other things and may be delayed. This regulation must be tabled, because the extra-judicial conciliation procedure, which concerns companies, concerns a number of debtors. However, they do not include ordinary debtors - citizens or residents of a municipality - and I think you should tell us what you intend to do about this.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-15-S1-commons.u26	Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-15-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Kegeroglu, on the occasion of the recent regulation on the extrajudicial compromise, you are currently asking yourself why the debts to the municipalities of natural persons and businesses do not fall within this procedure. I think that the scope of this regulation is very specific. It also provides a debt threshold of more than EUR 20 000, and I do not think it will be so flexible and effective in the case of debts to the municipalities. Indeed, within the multi-brand plan, which is currently in the General Accounting Office of the State, and we are waiting for it day after day for it to be submitted to the parliamentary procedure and to pass through the committees, there is a specific regulation, which I think is more in line with the needs of natural persons and businesses, in order to meet their obligations towards the municipalities. This setting is up to a maximum of 100 doses. It provides, depending on the way in which it is paid, for the removal of all the surcharges, and I think it will also contribute to increasing the collection of the municipalities, but it will also be a relief for the debtors. It is therefore much simpler and I do not think that we should involve this in the very positive and important regulation of the extrajudicial compromise, which is for other cases and, above all, for businesses. So we will soon be able to talk about this arrangement in the next few days. There is now a possibility - and it will certainly be possible - if there is any fertile thought, we can also make this regulation more operational. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-15-S1-commons.u28	Mr Kegeroglu has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-15-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, precisely because of the reasoning you have developed, the question has been tabled. Since they are not part of the extrajudicial compromise - and it is not appropriate to call for extrajudicial debts, particularly small, to be introduced by citizens who do not have the status of a businessman - that is why it is necessary to regulate them. But I would like it to be harmonised. We cannot have a hundred and twenty instalments in the extrajudicial, a hundred and twenty instalments in the issue of insurance funds that are out-of-court - that is our information, our information from the relevant Ministry - a hundred and twenty instalments for a number of debts and the debts for the municipalities to tell me that the instalments are a hundred. Will you tell me, "so important are the twenty?" No, but it shows there's a different concept for no reason. The second point is about the interest rates that will be legislated so that the positive view that you have expressed that there should be a deletion of the large increases imposed, combined with a reasonable interest rate, which can provide sustainable regulation. Of course - you have described them well - there will be clear proposals for improvement or anything else. But you didn't tell us when. The bill is in the General Accounting Office of the State. Okay. But will we have legislation in July, for example? Will we have legislation in the summer so that they can join? The debate is good, on the one hand, because we are informing ourselves and, on the other, because there is a suspension of payments for many cases which could be paid and which are at the limit, because it says that the regulation is coming. Yes, but, if the regulation is delayed, it will be negative for the same debtors who are charged with the surcharges and for the municipalities who do not receive them. Therefore, this debate must be closed. Normally this is without a long consultation, for good reasons, for what I mentioned earlier. So I would like to point it out in time, and above all, if there are other reasons for delaying the bill, for decommissioning it and for a regulation to be made in this regard in itself. Already - as we have said - it has been voted on the extrajudicial. Other liabilities cannot be regulated and the debt to the municipality or the municipal company cannot be regulated. I understand - as in January was positive - your response to the request for sustainable regulation. However, we must make it clearer about the timetable and the standards of sustainability that it will have. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-15-S1-commons.u30	Thank you for respecting time. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-15-S1-commons.u31	Mr. Kegeroglu, I think time is almost determined. As far as I know, any remarks from the General Accounting Office of the State - as is expected to be made in every bill - are almost complete. I therefore think - as you said a moment ago - at the end of June, we will now have a vote. The aim of each regulation is, of course,,, based on the specificities of the case it comes to cover, to be efficient and functional. And there is such categorisation and approach to this arrangement. You have also tabled a very specific proposal to harmonise the number of doses and to go from the hundred doses provided by our own regulation to twenty. It's something we have - I think - the time to see it. We are not talking about such amounts, of course, that a hundred or twenty will make the big difference. The possibility, I think, and the incentive to delete surcharges is what debtors could exploit. But in any case, I think it is worth seeing it, so that we can make it as effective and functional as possible. Otherwise, you know that the intention is specific. And you see that we have a common view on this issue, and I think that very soon we will now be able to meet those who can and are willing to meet their obligations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-15-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, too. The twelfth, under number 932-6-2017, a topical question for the second cycle of the Athens Parliamentary, Mr. Georgios Amyras, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, concerning the hours of museums and archaeological sites during the summer season, will not be discussed due to the absence of the Minister of Culture and Sport, Mr. Lydias Konordos abroad. The first question with references to the questions raised by the Member of the Radical Left Coalition, Aristides Baltas to the Minister of Culture and Sport, concerning the Solidarity Fund of the Ministry of Culture, will not be discussed due to the absence of the Minister of Culture and Sports, Lydias Konordos abroad. We continue with the ninth with number 930/2-6-2017 topical question from the Z Vice-President of the Parliament and MP of Athens, Potamios Spyridon Lykoudis, to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "In a bad state the Field of Mars". Mr. Lykoudi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-15-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, about six years ago, an attempt was made to regenerate the Mars Field, cost 10 million euros. The effort was effective. Planted trees, made ferries, planted roses, irrigation works of this green, turned corridors, placed marble kilnstones, granulates, etc. A refreshment appeared with positive elements throughout the site. Electricity projects have been carried out. In other words, it attempted to reform the space and had results. Today is not the situation. A lot of things that have been done have been abandoned and gone into disuse and create an image that is not at all pleasant. The fountains are free, the fountains are waterless, the grass is dried, the automatic watering is not working, many trees and plants from which they were planted are now in a condition that is not pleasant when you see them, there is a general dysosmia, outbreaks of contamination, that is, and a lot of garbage, created by the pond waters that are in many places. Also too many of the marble plates of the Marble Field of Maris have been destroyed. One important problem is how to preserve the Mars Field, from whom to keep it, namely from what services, what hours exactly do those who create the safety conditions. From there on, there is also a question of who cleans the Mars Field in particular, but not generally and with efforts that one or other can do for the sake of sensitivity. Is there a specific cleaning programme? Is this about the region, about the Municipality of Athens, which claims a right, if you like, or an intention to help renovate and clean up the Area of Mars? " If all this is a true picture - in my opinion it is true - I ask you what the Ministry is going to do to help restore the Mars Field to a situation in which five - six years ago had arrived after efforts. And what does the Ministry intend to do in relation to the possibility of consulting the Region with the Municipality of Athens, which insists on claiming the management of the Area of Ares, so that we can have better results?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-15-S1-commons.u34	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-15-S1-commons.u35	Mr Lykoudis, you referred to an initiative six years ago. Unfortunately, there are very many examples of good initiatives, which start with the best of the preconditions, but then they are not so encouraging and so, in any case, successful. You know, we have a bad tradition as a state, as competent bodies, to make a good start, but not to shape the terms anymore, so that we keep what we put as a target, that is, this super-popular green space in Attica, this metropolitan park, open, can host people, hug it. The information I have from the region, which is also responsible for managing the Marios Field, says that they have been made on all these issues that you have mentioned and have been agreed with the Municipality of Athens and with the Ministry of Civil Protection, in order to address the issue of 24-hour policing. Secondly, on the issue of cleanliness, which is the responsibility - and the officials of the region are carrying out it - but also in cooperation with workers from the Municipality of Athens from the cleanliness sector, I know that there is a way and a plan for this area to host events either of pupils, schools, and for artistic events, etc. This is all necessary. I'm telling you this because I also happened to have lived in the area and to have been born at the crossroads of Zaimi and Alexandra Avenue, in other times, in other conditions of life in Athens, which I remember was really a summer oasis, where until night they sat mothers with their children, the children played, there we learned a bike, we were playing ball. The main thing, then, is for people to return into the space so that they can actually give it this character, which the space can and must take. It is not that there has been a good treatment of the Mars Field after the very ambitious start you mentioned six years ago. What the current regional administration has at least received was an abandonment picture and has now taken a number of measures so that - and this has been done to some extent - a qualitative and quantitative upgrade of green, following studies carried out with the help of the Agricultural University, the Plant Pathological Institute and the Forest Directorate. So all this, which has been designed, and which I understand that the region itself often does not have sufficient resources to bring it to an end in so far as it wants to be in the right direction. It is important that we do not take a belly in these measures, that there is a constant effort to upgrade the environment in the sea. And above all, it is not a space that is not illuminated, that it is not far from the world, because in the end the key to the success of all these efforts is the world, which is in the space, to rejoice in children, in a town which, of course, lacks green spaces and which has not shown the requisite respect for them over time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-15-S1-commons.u36	Mr. Lykoudi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-15-S1-commons.u37	Mr Minister, the Martian Field and its problems I know very well. I have had 12 years of prefecture in Athens and three times a candidate for prefecture, dealing with these issues, and even representing a political area with particular sensitivity to environmental and everyday problems in good conditions for the people of Athens. This is not just about me, it is about you, Minister, who I am asking you, and I call it well. I didn't come here as a scumbag to say things that came to my head or to make opposition. Everything that I said to you - and related to the current situation in the area - is what the actors in the area have publicly submitted to various meetings, the members of the Committee of Residents for the Area of Mars, the representatives from the Development and Exotic Association of Athena, the group "Friends of the Homeless of the Field of Mars" and the Parents Movement for the Area of Mars. The abandonment and security problems begin at the entrance of the Arystos Field, from the statue of Constantine, where there is the deposition of drug trafficking and drug trafficking and a little more obvious means of fornication, even children, and all the rest of the description is true and the description of the inhabitants living the Maris Field. Why am I saying all this? I tell you again that I did not come to opposition here, nor did I come to undo the image you gave, that, that is, it is not excluded six years ago that there was an ambitious, sensitive renewal plan and then, as usual, what is being done in Greece, we say "hello, joy, children, we planted the trees, let us retire now". There's no way that's happening. It is important today how the government and the state deal with the issue, because there is no guardianship, Mr Minister, for the maintenance of what has been done, and beyond, the search for a solution cannot be given when the region is in a position of competence with the Municipality of Athens - I do not mean at the disposal of a hostile confrontation - but who has competences, who cares for garbage, electricity. I tell you this and I close with it, that the Municipality of Athens has this noble ambition, a large park, which is in the heart of the Municipality of Athens, to manage it. Since I was a prefecture adviser in Athens there has been the request of the Municipality of Athens, which said to the then prefecture: Let us see what we will do with the Area of Aryos. You have all Attica, you don't know where to start. Let us see our neighborhood. What is this stiffness, which exists today, and cannot be managed by the Municipality of Athens? Unless the state has no confidence in the municipality that it can do it - and I don't mean to the mayor today, to anyone - that the Municipality of Athens alone can't do it. I have the impression he'll be wrong if he has that perception. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-15-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-15-S1-commons.u39	Mr Lykoudis, I do not want to exaggerate the situation, nor do I underestimate the specific testimonies of all the associations to which you referred a moment ago. But by looking at the evidence, at least, which is in my knowledge, they speak with specific figures, for example, of reducing cases of crime. It's not gone. It's certain. I accept that and we are talking about a very large space, which - I repeat - if it does not have a continuous maintenance and supervision, cannot be maintained at a certain level. I know they've opened playgrounds, which are very important, and they've improved. I have in mind that there is a summer - and there will now be a doubling of staff employed in the salts for the summer months. I am referring to these, because they are very specific and I think they are in a positive direction. I repeat that it is certainly not the altar, which we would like, the Area of Mars. It does not have the visibility that it should have, nor can it inspire, this feeling of safety and refreshing, which such space should have. But it is precisely the ultra-territorial nature of the Mars Field that I think it is more of a metropolitan responsibility for the management of the area and not just the municipality. It's not in adversity, nor should it be in adversity, the municipality with the district. I think that the way to deal with is cooperation and synergies. I do not think that there is any objection on either side. And if there is, we call them all together on a table, see how we can be more effective, to get the best possible result. On the occasion of this, I would like to say that there is a more general need for the Lefkanode to see what we call'metropolitan self-government'. And I do not necessarily mean the emergence of a new institution through the election of a corresponding institution. You understand what I mean. There may be other kinds of action that is in this direction. I believe that that is where the problems of the Mars Field fall. Otherwise, I think that what one can find is that there is no reason in this matter, apart from objective difficulties or truce - negative stiffness - which we need to overcome in order to ensure the best conditions and to deliver this space to the people who really need it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-15-S1-commons.u40	Eleventh question under number 945/6-2017 will be discussed in the second session of the Greek Communist Party MP, Emmanuel Synthraki, with the Minister of Interior, on "direct re-introduction of the redundant staff at the JHA Heraklion Crete". Mr. Synatiakis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-15-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, for the past two years, eleven contractors of the Municipality of Heraklion City of Water and Wastewater have been fired after re-checking the IDAC contracts and the relevant court decision. Following actions, insurance measures by workers, primary decisions, appeals, etc., these workers were made redundant. The contracts of these workers had been converted into an indefinite period by decision of the Board of Directors of DESCRIPs, which was found to be illegal. What's the matter? The point is that these workers, i.e. the IDAC workers, who work in municipalities with local council decisions, JHA boards, often uninsured and unpaid for very long periods of time, cannot today be accountable, much more persecuted and fired. These workers, the eleven workers, were workers and worked in wastewater, biological cleansing, sewerage, and today they are the victims of these reactionary restructuring in the local administration. The majority of municipal authorities resorted to such decisions, because workers covered fixed and constant needs and why they were forced by the restrictive framework of the respective governments, which systematically promoted the "slapping" of industrial relations and rights and opened the way for privatisation for the services of the municipalities through their full reparation. DESCRIPTION, with much less staff today than before 2010, before the combinations of the municipalities, with four additional municipalities on the back - apart from the Municipality of Heraklion and four other municipalities - are facing very serious operating problems. With these redundancies, by not recruiting young people, DESCRIPH is even more discredited and the road to more immediate privatisation, which will mean more expensive water and related services for the popular families of the Municipality of Heraklion. Minister, this issue has been pending for two years. We had asked then, two years ago, in June 2015, and then Mr Katrugalos replied: "We will see, it is the financial conditions, we are willing to permanently perpetuate the workers, do, sewage." A lot has been said then by Mr Katrugalos, and you, of course, say a lot about this matter today. So we ask you what measures and decisions you will take so that these eleven employees of DESCRIPH are re-entered under contracts of indefinite duration and what other measures will you take to recruit permanent staff because of increased needs? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-15-S1-commons.u42	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-15-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Synthraki, I would like to make an introductory remark. Not all cases of contractors are the same. So generalization does not help to see the overall problem, which we have discussed many times, but also this particular issue. Without repeating things, which I understand will be given the opportunity to say immediately after the next timely question by your colleague on the subject of contract staff, I would like to say that in particular, in this case, by the IFRIC, there was a specific complaint in this House of Public Administration Inspectors that it was illegal for the recruitment of those officials who were employed under contracts of indefinite duration. In particular, the conditions of Law 2190/1994 for the SAPA were not met. Since January 2013, when the issue started, the legal adviser of the company has given a negative opinion on the legality of recruitments and then those employees have been fired. There was an appeal to the Single Chamber in Heraklion, where there were insurance measures. The treatment was eventually rejected by Decision 660/2014. Subsequently, there was a re-insurance of workers at the level of interim measures, which expired on 20 August 2015. There's an appeal waiting. So we're talking about something very specific, about some issues of legality. You know that they do not legislate or decide on matters of legality, municipal councils. Here we have concrete municipal decisions, which bind us all. We've also taken initiatives in the bill that's being deposited. We have such a reference and specific legislation, covering the cases of workers in JHA from a merger. This is not the case, because they existed in that JHA JHA, in Heraklion. That's why I'm saying it's something very specific and special. However, I repeat that when there are judicial decisions, these are binding and set some limits for us. The rest of the intentions to privatise water and cost, etc., are a criticism, which you have the right to do, but which is not related to our intentions. We have shown this in every means and manner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-15-S1-commons.u44	Mr. Synatiakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-15-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, obviously, all the cases of contractors are not the same. And that's what's been happening consciously and deliberately over the years. There was this globe of elastic industrial relations. Today, the government says: 'You know, there are various legal and constitutional obstacles' and that there are the financial blocks, which Mrs Gerovassili said, which are here today, and which honours us with her presence. It's the government's permanent inclination to get away from the gentleman. Politics what position you take against this legal framework, which all the previous governments have built, and you maintain it, you maintain it, you continue it. That's the basic thing. This is where the workers must be answered. As you mentioned the subject of the multi-brand plan, which is submitted, there is indeed a provision in Article 13 entitled 'Category of municipal waste water treatment companies, arising from mergers', which concerns JHA workers, which are similar cases like the one we are now discussing - and we as a JV say that they are doing well - they exclude the workers of the JHA. In other words, the work pending only for personnel from a merger of municipalities, as a result of which the respective JHAs were merged into an undertaking, are resolved. Be careful, Minister. The above provision does not cover the eleven employees of DESCRIPH, because while they joined together in 2010, the five capodist municipalities in a single cultural municipality of Heraklion did not come together and the corresponding JHA did not come together for the simple reason that the four capodist laws did not exist in JHA. The issue therefore arises for these workers in the JHA. Has there been a mistake by mistake? Is there any other feasibility? What is it? You must, however, give some clarification to make sure that the workers are properly reassured. We believe that, before the draft law is tabled, you should see this wording of Article 13 again in the multi-brand plan, in order to include all workers - there is no reason, since it applies to the other municipalities, which were united by the JHA - not only by those who came from a merger. So we as a JRC - and you know our position - believe that all the workers, who cover fixed and permanent needs, such as those of these workers at the DPRK, and not only those who have been made unjustly, must go back to work and join jobs for an indefinite period of time. Finally, let the Government take a legislative initiative if it wishes to no longer apply to the existing regime, which you have constantly invoked and with which you say that you will resolve this employment issue with the workers. Workers in municipalities have also tabled a specific proposal for a law to be converted into an indefinite period of time. Here's Rhodes, behold, and fuck. Will you accept that to solve the problem definitively, or are you committed to the financial blocks that Mrs Gerovali has said? You must give very specific answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-15-S1-commons.u46	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-15-S1-commons.u47	Mr Synthraki, it is not a record, it is not a permanent inclination of the constitutional reality that sets limits and you know that very well. It is indeed inappropriate to present proposals for the immediate permanentisation and conversion of contractors in indefinite time. It is politically inexpensive and easy and speculate with real struggles. That's too easy to do. You know, because our recent experience has shown that when there is a Constitution that explicitly dictates certain things, ignoring them, you are glad when you vote for them, but then it comes to being judged as unconstitutional. So we play with people's lives and industrial relations. So I would like to repeat that the government's intention is not to ignore the Constitution, looking at making use of European directives on the abuse of labour contracts, to study concrete regulations. I repeat that this is not the case, which concerns your question, for what we are discussing at the moment. Here is a compared complaint that has been judged by the courts and an appeal I know is still pending. So it's something completely different from the subject of contractors in general. Besides, be careful, because you referred to the dismantling of industrial relations, the dismantling of industrial relations which is a reality in the years of the memorandum, following the status of contractors. The status of contractors was a political hostage option to facilitate customer relations imposed by PASOK and New Democracy over the past decades. Up there there is room for a block of social and political forces to be formed, so that we can find more difficult conditions to restore this injustice by recognising the real employment relationship between some of these contractors, who are, by name, only contractors. Here, then, bring fruitful proposals and not just suggestions. I am referring to what you said before, turning all fixed-term contracts into indefinite ones overnight. That's how I think things are. This arrangement will be passed on to the legislation in question. I am not a legal person to know if it covers the case of the employees of Heraklion. These are our intentions and we will try to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-15-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, too. The fourth under No. 977/6-2017 topical question of the first cycle of the MP of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Antonio Gregos to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "The desecration of the sacred monument of the Unknown Soldier, as a result of continuous impunity", will not be discussed due to the obstruction of the Deputy Minister of Home Affairs Mr. Toska. The sixth question under number 982/8-6/2017, first question by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of the Interior, concerning the break-up of stores in Piraeus, will also not be discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Home Affairs Mr. Toska. The first, with number 984/9-6-2017, topical question by the Member of the Attica Parliament, Mr. Mavroudi Voridis, to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Death student injury in Acharnes", will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister of the Interior, Mr. Toska. Also the second question under number 991-12-2017 of the Parliamentary Attica of the Democratic Integration PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Paraskevi Christophilopoulos to the Minister of Home Affairs on the protection and safety of the non-negotiable Acharnes residents will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Home Affairs Mr. Toska. Likewise, the fourth under number 978/6-2017, a topical question for the second parliamentary Athens of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Helen Zarulias to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Continued terrorist attacks against MMs from para-state elements", will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister of the Interior, Mr. Toska. Finally, the eighth question under number 928/2-6-2017, on the uncontrolled action of the hooded anarchists, will not be discussed by the Deputy Minister of Interior Mr. Toska. The thirteenth question, with number 946-6-2017, will be discussed in the context of the second question of the Athens Parliamentary II of the Communist Party of Greece, Christos Katsotis, Minister for the Interior, concerning the workers at "Help at Home" and the conversion of their contracts in indefinite time. Mr Kattotis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-15-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, following on from what you said, it is up to which side to see the issues and the developments and who serves or wants to serve. If, in fact, we want here to ensure profitability in elastic forms, with cheap labour and with the abolition of rights, then we can invoke a number of issues, a series of regulations and commitments, so as not to proceed with overturning the status of the gallery, this regime of flexible forms of employment that have been created and which hold thousands of workers hostage, both in the public and in the private sectors, in particular, where things are middle-aged. So these elastic forms of employment and all the other forms which the system is fiercely imagining, and with a pilot, the public, often have a name and you are, unfortunately, continuing on such a path of employment. Our question is about the 'Help at Home' Programme. There are three and a half thousand workers for 15 years now from a European Union programme. It is well known that so far there are hundreds of thousands of beneficiaries, but the crisis is well known to create, unfortunately, young people who are resorting to such services, which are very important to these people. We know that a debate has begun on this issue of workers in the Home Aid Programme. Of course, we would like you to tell us where he is today, whether there is a development and when this arrangement, which you have committed to the workers, will come to. After all, it was your commitment and in the run-up to the election that these workers would be dealt with either by permanentisation or by an indefinite contract. This is what we have come to ask you today with this question, namely what measures you will take, in order to resolve at least the issue of at least these workers under the 'Help at home' programme, although there are issues with thousands of other workers whose issue needs to be resolved.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-15-S1-commons.u50	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-15-S1-commons.u51	So, then, and the previous ones, it seems to be luck, which is an expanded debate on the question of the labour relations of workers who are involved in contracts, I think I have discussed several times with the unions and workers' representatives in this 'Help at Home' programme, not only here in Athens, but I have met them in almost any city in the Greek region that I visited and we always approach a real issue, to which you have referred, and I have referred before, on the subject of the working hostage of thousands of workers. Indeed, in this programme we have cases of workers for 14 and 15 years with ever-new contracts. So this in itself without wanting too much imagination or effort shows that this is essentially another employment relationship, the one we call it a constantly renewed fixed-term contract. It is therefore not a question of transforming these conventions but of recognising the underlying real employment relationship. This is what ensures the conditions of legitimacy, what we want to achieve, taking into account also the prohibitions of the Greek Constitution and the European legislation to which I referred before. This programme is the intention of the Government to maintain, which is why the extension until 31 December has been financed by national resources, there has been a programme agreement between the Ministry of Labour, the Ministry of Interior, the ECA and the EBRD. It is our commitment to be able, in fact, to provide elderly people with these services at home by these workers. We are at that stage that we are forming - I repeat and it is not easy - the legislation that will try to respond to this issue. It is an issue that has a political dimension. It is an issue that has a socio-taxation dimension. It is an issue that we know we will find toward us, which they want to grant all these benefits to private capital. But if you want an answer - which you know about, but I imagine you are asking for rhetorical reasons - about whom, ultimately, we want to express our interests and who we are defending, I will tell you directly about the world of work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-15-S1-commons.u52	Here, Mr Katsotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-15-S1-commons.u53	Minister, in this Chamber we have had a number of debates on labour and collective agreements, and you have, of course, committed yourself here many times, but you have been disproved with regard to the reintroduction of EUR 751 in connection with the reintroduction of collective agreements, in relation to the arrangement - if you like - of such matters relating to labour relations and define this mess of thousands of workers, who work three days, work three hours, rotating, work, work on hired labour by slaves and so on. There is a hostage, Minister, which is now maintained by your Government. You are not from yesterday, you are now government two and a half years old and you could take initiatives. But you have again referred to it now - arrangements for the Constitution and for the European Union. However, Mr Minister, you have not told the workers that 'we will proceed to this if we are allowed'. You have made a political commitment - and, in election terms, to changes in this legislative framework, which you call it barbaric, neoliberal, which you characterize in a thousand ways, but which you have today, you have not changed a single one. It is a legislative framework, which implements the requirements of great capital, so that the labour force is very cheap. Also, Minister, you spoke about water before, and I would like to tell you about the EEAS, which you are burglaring your clothes, how you have put it here for privatization as well as the EEAS. As far as water and other services are concerned and the 'Help at Home' programme, you know very well that various business groups are back and want to grab them, they want new profit-making paths and you, with the privatisations that you have not stopped here, continue the same work, continue on the same path of the previous ones. The workers at the "Help at Home" Programme are concerned, Minister, despite your commitments, despite the meetings you have made with them. You haven't made any progress in what you promised them. You did not say here today, at what stage is this attempt that you say you are doing? You are saying that you have a intention for these three and a half thousand people, and you are saying that behind this employment relationship, there is a permanent, stable employment relationship, what you call constant and constant needs, although I personally do not think that this term performs. Because there is constant and constant needs, for example, for an enterprise to determine them. He can say "I don't want so many, I want so many". They, however, are three and a half thousand across Greece and offer services to a hundred thousand people. These people in the next period will grow. It is well known that in the years of the crisis there are many who have been poor, many who are in need, many who have abandoned their people, because they cannot support them. It is essential that the government now, if it really wants to give a signal that it is with the workers, that it overturns things that have been implemented, that this hostage should be overthrown and that it should be done indefinitely.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-15-S1-commons.u54	Good. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-15-S1-commons.u55	Mr. Colleague, I don't want to talk about intentions. I would like to refer to the specific arrangements that have been made by the present government. Who promoted the regulation on the so-called 'legal instruments'? With regard to those who have previously been justified on matters relating to their work relationship, the mayors were given the opportunity not to go to a second degree, but to accept the way in which they have been consulted with the workers and thus, once they have been first justified, to take up their job with the specific employment relationship that they have to have. Who acted on this particular arrangement for the so-called'standard qualifications'? It concerns people who had again been judicially justified, but when they were engaged in these positions, they were not required to have various degrees - mainly in cleanliness - and we have reached the point, despite all their jurisprudence, finally to refuse them to go to their post, because when they were recruited - legally with what was envisaged at the time - they did not formally have a municipal sabbatical. And we've been through that. Who changed the employment relationships, the regime in the cleanliness of public administration? You have referred to specific companies that are indeed a nursery for the circumvention of labour rights, as many - not all - of the cleaning companies. You remember that from the first things that this government has done since 2015 it has been to allow personal contracts to work in the Ministries, primarily. So we are talking not only about intentions, but within this suffocating framework for specific initiatives. We know what issues we have been able to overcome today's adversities, which are too great. This is the subject of a more general debate. We know, however, and also our constant effort to exploit whatever potential there are, whatever cracks there are. This will be a constant and irresistible effort. Leave it on privatization of the EMSDDA. You know that there is a constitutional guarantee, that 51% of NSAs and NSAs - and management and shareholder composition - remain under public control. So it's an unfortunate example. Mr Katsotis, I think we may have a different reading of things, a different strategy on how to see today how to defend the world of work. There is, however, a great deal of room for joint action on specific issues, coordination and joint action. In these areas, where we can come up with specific regulations that will improve today, within this unfavourable socio-political framework, the lives of workers and their working relations, I think there is room for cooperation, confrontation and joint action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-15-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, too. And now that Mr Skourletis' replies to the topical questions have ended, we are going to debate the second question under number 4871/64-2017 - the cycle of petitions - the independent MEP Mr. Dimitrios Koukoutsis, on the subsidisation of bio-engineerers. Mr. Koukoutsis, you have the floor for two minutes to develop the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-15-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Mr President. Greek bio-engineerers account for feasibility and error as regards applications for membership in the new organic farming programmes, for which some sixty-five thousand people have participated, while they will join around eighteen thousand farmers. The total coverage of stakeholders requires an amount of more than EUR 1.5 billion, and only around EUR 440 million is available. Of these EUR 440 million, outstandings from previous years, estimated at EUR 180 million, should also be paid. We are already three, four years later, and the situation remains the same. They raise objections to payments for the years 2013-2014, hundreds of treatment applications for the years 2012-2013, of which those that have been examined and vindicated have not yet been paid, while the rest remain frozen. In other words, as you can see, the agri-environmental programme for 2007-2013, above the 50% rate, remains unpaid. After that some questions have been asked: Is the Ministry available to discuss the review of the accession criteria in this programme? Will the ministry take care of the new entrant farmer and livestock farmers? For a continuous three-year period of activity is foreseen, when a product is characterised as organic, it should be at least five years. Is it possible to reduce the level of subsidies in order to include a higher number of farmers? You will allow me to ask something else. Days ago, the Council of Agriculture Ministers took place, where eight Spanish associations were against the draft new regulation on organic products, imputing weaknesses to the new regulation, and especially that each Member State can set its own standards for the presence of residues in organic food. This practice is said by the Spaniards to lead to very difficult situations and unbelievable competition. We should know what was said at the last session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-15-S1-commons.u58	Mr. Chironi, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-15-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I should like to express my condolences and condolences to the people of Lesvos who are currently suffering an incredible suffering from a natural phenomenon that Greece has learned to live with. Unfortunately, we had a dead one too. The condolences to her family. I also think I should express my condolences to the families of the victims of the fire in London. Of course, I believe that human responsibility exists here, because such large buildings, unfortunately, often in the name of profit, are not properly constructed. So, when evil happens, it's uncontrollable. I want to make some clarifications. First of all, no one - at least from the well-meaning interlocutors and producers - accounts for us no purposes and no mistakes. No intentions have been made, no mistakes have been made. I would particularly like to mention what has been written against Mr Cornelissen that the main criterion in this programme was 'NATURA', with the result that the 'NATURA' regions waste all the money. Let me make it clear, then, that this criterion has never been called into question by anyone, my dear fellow Member, since 2014 when this criterion entered the debate and approved by the committee. It has not been approved for these days, nor has the criterion been wrong. The committee imposes such criteria on agri-environmental measures. It is difficult to take off the NATURA criterion. If, suddenly, nineteen thousand who were the farmers in Greece - so many are the real number - we have sixty-five thousand applications, that has other causes that escape today's question. It's a big conversation, and it's worth it in my dentistry to say something about it. I cannot therefore blame our predecessors of the New Democracy and of the PASOK for appropriateness and wrongness with regard to the NATURA criterion, because no one has questioned it. From there on, we really are trying to change criteria, set other criteria to serve people and at least those who have experience of getting in. Let me make one more thing clear. There is a separate heading for the transition and separate for conservation. So there is no danger for young farmers to be wronged. This is not the case. Let me also say something else. The delay you mentioned is a long time ago. You know we've received a very morbid situation. On the contrary, everyone admits that we were speeding up on this issue. There have been loose ends since 2009. We now have very few loose ends, most of which are due to the DAGs which have been subscribed - and not to the Ministry - and which are late to send the papers. These few loose ends concern the previous programme. Finally, I should like to say a little bit about the remnant, because I am not allowed time for the last session. Greece has firmly opposed the possibility of a residue of pesticides or other prohibited substances in organic products. It was one of the countries that resisted, despite the fact that this resistance brings further reforms to the biological programme that we want to go through, such as heterogeneous resources, our traditional resources, that is, something that we want to go through at the moment. And we are fighting the European Union for resources. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] I'll just close with a word, I'm sorry. Mr Colleagues, 90% of the problems currently facing agriculture in Greece are the problems of the CAP and they are not the problems of the programme. When the CFP pays extensively and agri-environmentally and does not correspond to the quality of the product or to the quantity of the product at all and does not even put a minimum quantity on, it is very limited to how to be able, at this time, to say that a grower who produces a good product on the market - because this is the aim of bio-farming - that is more rewarded than anyone else. Well, you know something and I'll hang up with it. We have already submitted to the committee the necessary amendments to prevent anyone from being wronged, as early as May. We are now waiting directly for the committee's answers. I'll have a meeting with Mr. Hogan next week. I am sure, therefore, that before the summer close, we will have the new programme and before the autumn close, we will have a final solution to the problem of bioculture.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-15-S1-commons.u60	Mr. Koukoutsis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-15-S1-commons.u61	It is logical that there should be some developments, because these questions are made by many. However, the farmers themselves - because I do not mention data which I have not received from the farmers themselves, from the farmers themselves - say that they were approved for organic farming of about 12 000 candidates, on the sole criterion of 'NATURA', which you have approved. The NATURA programme applies and concerns few areas in Greece or areas which cannot be grown. They say, therefore, that the Ministry has designed a trick, which defines as a necessary area for the application of the criterion 10% of the applicant for membership to be "NATURA" or to be touched on. In other words, if a producer with 10 hectares, 100 acres, that is to say, has an hectare, that is ten acres, which he touches - so to say - 'NATURA', then the criterion is applied and approved. They say that they consider this criterion to be challenging and the way it is chosen, as well as the rest of the holding, that is, the remaining 90% may not be long. So what does the rest have to do with NATURA? And as you understand, I am referring to a document, which has been sent to you by Laconia bio-engineers. And they say they want to be informed whether the approved ones should comply with the NATURA commitments for the whole area, otherwise what is considered to be the whole area of NATURA. Also, some other points, which we need to look at, are the measure concerning the determination of aid to organic farming, on the assumption of the operator, which produced it that unreliable data emerged. Also, it is compulsory for the farmer to have an advisor - the farmer, that is, essentially - but there is no care for funding. It's an extra exit, as is the spatial control, what we said before. They speak of the difficulties of the OPECE, of farmers who pay fines and never receive grants within a timeframe. That's the situation. Also, in a total of fifty thousand applications for inclusion, eleven thousand three hundred sixteen, 22.55%, and a total of about fourteen thousand applications for organic livestock was approved at zero, i.e. a total of 100%. It's a large percentage, i.e. it's unrealistic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-15-S1-commons.u62	So do we. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-15-S1-commons.u63	So let me begin - because you saw that I told you too - who the bio-farmers are, who are protesting. I have had four meetings with the farmers and so many others with their organisations. It is the whole of Greek bio-engineers there, no one is excluded. It is a very small percentage that this Lakonia Union, which insists on questioning the measure as a whole and it is all that you have read, to which I shall reply. However, you should know that, unfortunately, there is no totalitarian association that we can talk with, and indeed, this union has been most critically criticised by other bio-growers for its approach, but yet I respect its approach and I will reply. First of all, agriculture - livestock. The NATURA measure again says that we did not. It was necessary, it was not challenged by anyone, nor by this union, when the consultation took place, long before we took over by the government at that time. And later, if you see, they have a lot of criticism to do, except if you should have 'NATURA' or 'NATURA' before - and I say again - the beneficiaries come out, not after the measure has been taken. So since they discovered the problem with the sixty-five thousand candidates - no one expected there to be so many - and we saw that, in fact, they are eating all the money from the candidates who are at NATURA, we did this: first, in plant production NATURA did want 220 million. It was below the limit of the measure, so we were obliged to give it up. You understand why. People would go to court and take them. In livestock farming, however, this measure was very unfair, because there was a great deal of overcompensation, namely the candidates 'NATURA' were more than the money of the livestock measure, there we had every reasonable and legitimate reason to say that we were taking the measure back, because it has a great deal of overcompensation - not even NATURA - and to reopen it on new criteria. Here, then, is what you are saying, that everyone in livestock has been rejected. Not everyone was rejected. We took all the measure back. We saved the money that way. At the moment, out of the 600 million in total, and if we put on 10% more rationality, that is 660 million, which organic farming can have for the measure, 11 in total in five years, we have spent only 220 million in its vegetable 'NATURA' and all the other money is available for the others, with the new criteria, which are the experience that we ask the European Commission to approve, which is the percentage of areas of farming that it has in place, which is the main occupation of a farmer and other criteria which rationalise the initial invitation. So, here we have saved the vast majority of money, and indeed, our farmers are pleased that we have taken all the money back so that we do not waste money on a measure of NATURA that, anyway, could not work because of the overcompensation. Now we're going to two things you said to close. Mandatory counselor. When I entered the ministry, I had a proposal to completely abolish the counselor. The farmers themselves have asked me, the consultant will be obliged to do so, otherwise they will not work. But what did we do in relation to the previous measure? This is about the European Commission. Back on the schedule, say, if I had to get a grand, I had to give 30 euros on an invoice to the consultant. That's what I had to do. In the new program I'll get a grand again, I'll give the consultant something, it's just not binding on the number. I said, first of all, the advisor to get him out. The original suggestion was to get him out. The growers didn't want to. Finally, for OPEKEPE, problems are known and timed and they are the ones that create the problem. The multi-storey fields, the bad declarations, which mainly hit the farmers. But here, there is one issue. I will speak for example about Lesvos, where we had four thousand overlappings before, and now we have four hundred. I am not saying that we welcome the four hundred overlaps, but do not say that at the moment the OPEKEPE has a problem. We have not now discovered the problem of OPECE. It's old, timed and solved. It's solved by drastic measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-15-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, the third, with number 980/7-6-2017, timely question by the Member of Parliament of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.MAR.Michael Jellori to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "The creation of three new toll stations on the Promahona Road axis - Serres - Port of Thessaloniki is disastrous for the Prefecture of Serres", will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, Mr. Spirtzi. Finally, the tenth question under number 922/1-6/2017 of the second Athens Parliamentary of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Helen Zarulias to the Foreign Minister, on the subject: “The World Bank “characterizes” the Aegean in Turkey,” will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, Ioannis Amanatidis. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how the House operates, thirty-three students and students and two educational attendants from the Hellenic School of Agia Paraskevi. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Now the sixth question will be discussed under number 937/6-2017 of the new Republic MP Kilkis Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgiodas to the Minister for Administrative Reconstruction, concerning the restriction of recruitment to all entities and legal entities of the Central Command. Here, Mr Georgioda, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-15-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, at the time of the crisis, much more than before, people demand that there be transparency and a dignity of what is involved in recruitment in the public sector. Unemployed graduates require it. The Greek taxpayer is demanding it, who, with his laxity, pays the necessary financial expenses. In a question, which I made in February - I drafted it and signed it forty-three Members of the New Democracy - in which I was asking for an overall picture of recruitment and departures for the last two years and the planning of the next two years, I would like to believe that the result - but the result is that - you have avoided answering to me about private individuals and public enterprises, which are bodies of the general government, is included in the relevant register and are financed by the Greek state. You can understand that the non-response to such a serious question and, indeed, addressed by so many Members before you has created a confusion, because it cannot be concluded entirely with the census elements. Then, in connection with recruitment planning, there is a continuous proclamation by various ministers of the government. At some point we think it should be officially heard by the government - I imagine you are the Minister responsible - what has happened and what is to be done, what is the hierarchy of public priorities and how it is planned to be done, so that there is a clear picture that the needs - which need to be met - are actually covered by the various ministries or bodies, but at the same time also to know how these competitions are carried out. You understand that there is anguish from both the unemployed graduates and from the world in order to have a clear picture of the whole situation.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-15-S1-commons.u66	Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-15-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Georgiodda, you are once again coming back to the recruitment rule and the census data. But this is where you squeeze open doors. All the data you request are already published on the Census Base. The base has been operating since 2012. Data shall be collected on a fixed basis using the same methodology. There, then, everyone can find the whole of the evidence with which they can see in our country or internationally - the negotiation of the country is taking place on this basis - the part of the public administration. That's not all I can do now. It's done with the same data, in the same way, since 2012. Until then, of course, by 2012 - I have to say this - the governments and the New Democracy and the PASOK did not even record the public servants. The process was completely opaque and each one of us understands, not by accident. I also remind you of the way in which you do not record what you are giving us today, not even the ministerial offices' collaborators in the census, which is now happening in our own days. We are therefore clearly against the fact that there is no evidence to be made public because it concerns each Greek citizen because it comes from the pocket of each Greek citizen. We're recording everyone. Everything's in the Census System. I communicated this information to you two months ago in the relevant question. So today you are coming back for the legal persons of private law and the ECJ. The census, as you know, Mr Georgioda, is really a great one and, of course, there are objective difficulties, particularly for legal persons under private law and for the ECJ - you know it well - because circulars have already been issued in this respect. We are implementing the gradual integration of legal persons under private law and the ECO, for which there is a census obligation. Since 2015 this data has been published. It is worth noting here that in these days we have also closed a new round of negotiations, based on the evidence, on which we are both working and which you are asking and published at the disposal of everyone. Also, on the basis of these data, the reason for the withdrawals has been unreasonably formed since 2012. [[At this point the doorbell ends the speech time of the Minister is ringing.]] Of course, the previous PASOK-New Democracy government did not use this rule, it did not use it, because there was the possibility of limited recruitment, but neither were they, and of course not randomly. This is because they are conscious choices, gradually choices to divest social state services in the private sector. On the other hand, we are using this rule today to serve, with all the margins it gives us, sensitive areas with priorities such as health. We also unleashed their chronic procedures by conducting the competition for people who had successfully passed the SAAP procedures. On the basis of the official information, therefore, of the inventory, based on the following questions of your question, I will table in the Minutes for recruitment - departures from February 2015 to April 2017, per year. In relation to the programming of recruitments for 2017, based on rule one to four anymore, the maximum number of recruitments for 2017 amounts to two thousand four hundred and fifty three recruitments. That figure adds four thousand six hundred and forty-four recruitments, which have not been carried out by you in previous years, which have had the margins. So we can in 2017 proceed to seven thousand ninety-seven recruitments. With regard to the third question, notices for recruitment of permanent or indefinite staff shall be issued by the AACC in cooperation with the entity which carries out the recruitment, for information, shall also provide the corresponding AACC document, which shall be detailed in the notices made for 2015, 2016 and 2017.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-15-S1-commons.u68	You've got a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-15-S1-commons.u69	I'm done with this. I won't be long. There were too many questions, Mr President, in the same proposal. I won't be able to make it then. Just give me a minute. As these years show, twenty-nine notices with eight thousand six hundred and six hundred staff were issued by the AACC. Question four on non-ACP competitions. No non-ACP competitions shall take place. Now, if you are referring to recruitment procedures that are not legally subject to the control of the IAS, that is to say, these qualified staff for special services, this is done under a specific competitive procedure, which falls within a different legal framework, for example medical staff, IAS members, recruitment of productive public schools, such as the National School of Judges, the Diplomatic Academy and the National School of Public Administration. I am also tabling the practical approvals given for 2015 and 2016 to the three and four successful placements. You should be aware - Mr Georgioda - that the Ministry is involved in the opening of the procedure, as approval by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection is required. It shall also adopt an allocation decision before the procedures are completed. Following the publication of the decisions in three months, the competent bodies concerned shall carry out appointments. Therefore, the placement of successful ones, for which you are asking us, is carried out by the relevant body. The number of posts opened and then paid does not always correspond to the number of approvals granted, i.e. fewer posts may be called or, in any event, the total number of posts approved by our Ministry. That's what every ministry will judge. In any case, all these recruitments are reflected in the census. I'm going to go on with my denture and the rest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-15-S1-commons.u70	Here, Mr Georgioda, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-15-S1-commons.u71	My question - and I think it turns out finally today - has been made precisely because there is a tactic from the Ministry constantly not to give the right information. In my question, which was clear and I asked for the full information for the general government, you tell me in March 2017 that the recruitments made, with the exception of those made by judicial decisions, are six thousand two hundred eighty-four. That's your answer. You do not make it clear to me whether the legal persons of private law or the ECJ are inside. Of course, once they've been in the general government body register, they have to exist. In any case, I had a specific question about that. Now comes the medium-term, which the government agreed and signed in May, a month ago, in which we see other figures for 2016, that is, we see more than nine thousand nine hundred ninety-nine. I have a difference of three and a half thousand people according to what you gave me in March and with what was agreed and signed by you as a previous year a month ago. I'm not talking about programming 2017-2021. I'm talking about the 2016 data. I, tell me now, what can I accept? The six thousand two hundred eighty-four, your written question, or the nine thousand nine hundred and fifty-nine, which is also yours, of the Government, as an agreement with the medium term? Also, if one sees the census, at least in the ministries and legal entities governed by public law, it can actually end up exactly what is happening. But here are the thousands of seven hundred sixty-one in the general government register, on which - for all of them, who are within the limitation, are in the number of recruitments - I have no information, I have no specific answer on withdrawals and recruitments. All I could finally see from this medium-term point of view is that we are talking about eighty-five increments and that in private legal persons - if I can understand the last column - we are talking about a hundred forty-eight. Do you want to tell me if this is finally the case - because I understand - only the institutions of central administration, as we say, by means of the ministries only and legal entities governed by public law? In any case, the legal persons of private law and the thousands of seven hundred and sixty general government bodies, in public enterprises, have not been recruited? That's what you tell me in March. But you finally come in May and admit it's three and a half thousand. Madam Minister, my questions are specific. We all know very well that, in the legal persons of public law and the ministries, the competitions are, in principle, because they cannot be done otherwise, through the procedures of the AACC. Our commitment, the blurred point, where I want specific answers, is with the rest of the general government. All of these are paid by the Greek taxpayer. I want him to know with your specific answer - that was my question - the Greek taxpayer, in the thousands of seven hundred sixty-sixty-one of the general government, how many departures and recruitments we had and how many recruitments were made. Because I'm talking about recruiting permanent staff, but also of indefinite duration. And these are included in my question, they are specific time indefinite. So I think that we should not sit down and look for ourselves, it is the Ministry's duty to give this picture, in a clear way. I accept what you said that we did not do the recruitments we were entitled to in the previous period, but we obviously showed greater respect for the budgetary difficulties of that period, your choice is to do them now. But you're doing something else now with the programming I see. In fact, with the recruitments that have been announced by the relevant ministers, ten thousand here, fifteen thousand here, three thousand there, in good bodies, of course - to conclude this - whether it is health or education, we have reached the end of the margin by 2021. Are you planning, outside the budget limit of the next government, with the measures that have been voted on, to have a real exclusion from the possibility, and the next government to make a prioritisation of priorities? Because with these communications, which have been made by the relevant ministries in 2017, all recruitment opportunities will be closed by 2021. I want an answer to this programming. Will it be per year on the basis of the figures provided, or what is announced or what is to be published - I am not saying the recruitments - commit in the next few years? I want to know. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-15-S1-commons.u72	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-15-S1-commons.u73	Mr. Georgiod, as you know, from the time it is planned, a competitive process is completed through ASP, until the time each ministry finally makes the recruitment to those who do it, the time is long. That is not acceptable, that is, it does not serve the proper programming at any time, as we would like. But don't forget that these procedures also come from old times and we are, of course, prepared to change them, to the extent that it goes as a matter of competence from us, because it goes through from independent authorities too. We are also in a debate to speed up all these procedures. This is an objective difficulty, which also makes it difficult for interested parties, but of course it also makes it difficult to plan properly in good time. This is a problem that has been recorded many times, which is why I am telling you about average conditions. In all this we refer to the same month of previous years, which is what month we are talking about. That's why I told you about March of 16, 17 etc. And somehow with that logic, there are the tables I have submitted to you and you will then see. There is no mood on our part, and we have not made it any time to be recruited outside the AACC, as I have told you, except where it is planned. We've been accused of making client states. These have been said many times, but you know very well that this is not happening. Now, if you speak only of the co-workers of ministers or MPs, it is obviously a different procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-15-S1-commons.u74	There's this.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-15-S1-commons.u75	In any case, there are no recruitments in the public sector - I say this once again - out of competitive procedures, in all concerning the public sector and the general government budget, anyway. What is more than that is ESDP procedures, procedures with financial programmes, which are project start-ups and end-ups. That is why we are not talking about this. Today I may have ten ESDP programmes, tomorrow I may have one. It can end ten programs, start two, etc. There's no stability in that. I left for the end your last subcommittee, which concerns contractors. It is a debate that has taken place today in this Chamber and in detail with multiple questions. In fact, with your recent communication, Mr Georgioda, but also with your reference to the current question, you are bringing about a debate which, unfortunately, is the reason why it has been created. For many years now - this is not an invention today, which is why thousands of contractors in the public sector are - instead of recruiting people with stable employment relationships, which we all know are at work with fixed and constant needs, they were hired contractors, and so today we have people who are dragged ten and fifteen years and work with all this insecurity caused by the continuing contracts, which the entire Greek people know why it happened. Recently, unfortunately, and with a leak that has been made about a Court of Auditors decision, many of you have not concealed their joy at the possibility that people who had worked and worked in cleanliness should not be paid. I repeat, it matters.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-15-S1-commons.u76	No one ever said that from our place!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-15-S1-commons.u77	That was public, Mr Georgioda, and I did not give it to you personally, in any event. In any case, we are accused of trying to resolve issues of our own children. They're not our children, Mr. Georganta, all these people. These people have been coming from the past.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-15-S1-commons.u78	That's my question. That's not what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-15-S1-commons.u79	I didn't hear you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-15-S1-commons.u80	You're welcome, Mr. Georgioda.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-15-S1-commons.u81	My question is where you're going to join them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-15-S1-commons.u82	I would just like to say for the numbers, if you ask, that in March 2016 the contractors were fifty thousand fifty-three and in March 2017 they were fifty thousand six hundred thirty-seven. These are the numbers, the state money. I am not talking about the NRPs or co-financed in other ways. And all this is also in the census. Obviously, what has been created by the working hostage of all these people is not acceptable to us. It shouldn't be from you. Of course, we have seen the position that has been made - I think - by Mr Vorides, who said 'to see the case of people who serve permanent and permanent needs' and I considered it a positive step. You know very well that any conversion is impacting, so we haven't. We'll discuss the following. I agree to discuss exactly the following, because the people who work ten and fifteen years are not in the same position as a contractor, who will come to claim for the first time, and we should recognise that not only socially and politically, but also rules of law. That is our position and our proposal, and we are trying to resolve this big issue. The fact that we have not yet done so is due to our efforts to find a solid solution. We have placed politically what exactly our position is. If we follow something of the type of 'conversion' or some way that runs counter to a legal framework or how much in the Constitution, obviously next morning, conflicting forces in this regard will resort to a Court of Auditors or the Council of State and we know what will happen.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-15-S1-commons.u83	The constitutional bans are well known.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-15-S1-commons.u84	We know what's going to happen. Laws are to change. That's why the laws are.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-15-S1-commons.u85	And the Constitution.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-15-S1-commons.u86	Of course, yes, the Constitution. It is not our intention to circumvent it, or we would have made a conversion. Simple as that. So we are here and we are trying to resolve the issue in a way that is solid, permanent and does not bring the same people back to the same difficult position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-15-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, fifty students and students and two educational attendants from the second Greek School of Agia Paraskevi. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, we will be adjourning the meeting for ten (10') minutes and entering the special agenda.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-15-S1-commons.u88	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. We enter the SPECIFIC FACILITY ORGANIZATION Requests for waiver of immunity: debate and decision, in accordance with Rule 62 of the Constitution and Rule 83 of the Rules of Procedure, on applications for waiver of immunity from Members of Parliament, Efstathos Panagoulis and Nikolaos Papadopoulos. The report was announced by the relevant Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics today, 15-6-2017, according to which the members of the committee proposed, by a majority, that the immunity of Mr Efstathos Panagoulis should be waived. Also, by the same committee, the competent Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics, the report was announced today, 15-6-2017, according to which the members of the committee unanimously proposed the waiver of Mr Nikolaos Papadopoulos' immunity. Under Rule 83 of the Rules of Procedure, the House does not enter the substance of the cases, but it is only investigated if the act in respect of which the waiver of immunity is sought is linked to the parliamentary or political activity of the Member or to the prosecution, to legal proceedings or to clemency is politically appropriate. In accordance with Rule 83(7) of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, Parliament shall also decide, by raising the hand or by reopening the request of the public prosecutor in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 108(1)(2). The floor shall always be given, on request, to the Member to whom the request relates and to the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups or their alternates. I would remind you that, in accordance with a decision of the Conference of Presidents of 23 March 2005, we have agreed on applications for waiver of immunity that the House should decide by roll-call vote and by roll-call vote. The vote in which each fellow Member lists his name, his constituency and the parliamentary group to which he belongs will be registered in the respective Minutes. That is how we respond to the provisions of Rule 83 of the Rules of Procedure, which requires a clear vote. After the debate on the cases of today's special agenda is concluded, we shall proceed to a roll-call vote, as I have described. The first case concerns Mr Efstathios Panagoulis. The second case concerns Mr Nikolaos Papadopoulos. Is there a Member of this Parliament who asks for the floor under Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-15-S1-commons.u89	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-15-S1-commons.u90	Mr. Panagoulis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-15-S1-commons.u91	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, before I turn to the substance of the matter on which my immunity is sought, I should like to say a few things. Since 1977, I have been elected a Member many times and have been in favour of the abolition of the immunity of Members of Parliament and the law on the responsibility of Ministers. Articles 61 and 62 of the Constitution are clear. The criminally irresponsible and immunity of the Member shall apply only to a vote or an opinion given by the Member, even if he is engaged in his or her parliamentary duties. With the exception of self-righteous offences - felonies, like the rest of the country's citizens, they are also being prosecuted for their crimes, arrested, temporarily detained, imprisoned, and imprisoned, on the other hand, for Members of Parliament's permission. However, it is clear, ladies and gentlemen, that Rule 83 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure which lays down for what reasons and under what procedure the authorisation is granted. According to this, the Commission is investigating whether the act in respect of which the waiver of immunity is sought is linked to the Member's political or parliamentary activity or whether the complaint conceals political feasibility and if it finds that none of the above reasons are relevant, it recommends the waiver of immunity. So the House should, in compliance with its Rules of Procedure, generally grant permission. In accordance with paragraph 4 of Rule 83 of the Rules of Procedure, the Commission does not consider the relevance of the charge against the Member and the House is not entitled to engage in the criminal proceedings, nor is it able to substitute the judge in his judgment. The aim of these provisions is not, as in this case, to make the creation of a special privileged regime for Members of Parliament in breach of the constitutional principles of equal treatment and discrimination of powers, but to prevent abuse of criminal prosecutions against Members of Parliament for political purposes and for the sole purpose of preventing them from exercising their parliamentary duties. Unfortunately, you too, like previous governments, are interpreting the provisions of the Constitution and of the Rules of Procedure in due course, and you have transformed immunity from rule of law into an exception. From 1977 until today, there have been some misconceptions, ladies and gentlemen, that the institution of parliamentary immunity has been vindicated, with both pre-consentations and exchanges of votes which serve the interests of the micro-groups concerned, and that is the paradox, cases of Members of Parliament for uncovered cheques and other criminal offences to be disguised and MPs to remain unpunished under the cloak of parliamentary immunity. The other paradox also happens to be subject to the immunity of a Member of Parliament who did the crime when he was not a Member of Parliament. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like three more minutes, Mr President. Thus, the world is right when it protests about this distinction between citizens of the first and second categories. We must stop this impunity. I shall go into the essence of my case, in order not to judge the substance of the case, but to see whether the conditions laid down in Rule 83 of the Rules of Procedure are met. I'm actually coming in. On 9-11-2016, I was present at the courts of Hope in the civil proceedings of my relative and my broker, a known villain, who was present there as having nothing to do with the case, but as a bracelet of the opposing parties - and was actually carrying out the debts of bracelets - uncovered and threats to my life and my family. After that, I called the police and filed a complaint with him, arrested him, led him to the Police Department, filed a complaint, and he filed a complaint against me and against my son who had absolutely no connection. However, it is noteworthy, ladies and gentlemen, that in this case, once I have filed the complaint, and so far, through police officers - take note of this - before which the preliminary examination is being conducted, there have been numerous proposals to my lawyers to withdraw both my and my son our complaints at his expense. Secondly, my dealer in question has cases of a felony in which they have been ponding for many years. Of all the above, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that the request in question is not linked to my political or parliamentary activity. It does not conceal political feasibility, nor does it aim to intimidate me on how to carry out my parliamentary duties.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-15-S1-commons.u92	Mr. Panagoulis, I would ask you to speed up your intervention. You've already reached seven minutes. Make an effort to complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-15-S1-commons.u93	I shall conclude, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the one who sued me has been convicted and spent many years in prison for the establishment of a criminal organisation, for dangerous physical damage and hoarding. For many years, in the drawers of the prosecutors' offices, cases have been found for the establishment of a criminal organization, physical damage, blackmail, robbery, illegal possession, arms etc. Repeatedly he has dealt with this gentleman. Athens General Security has given 217 names of boogeymen and blackmailers, including him. I am obliged, because I respect the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the House, to ask for my immunity to be waived. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-15-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, Mr. Panagoulis. Is the second request a colleague requesting the floor under Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-15-S1-commons.u95	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-15-S1-commons.u96	Here, Mr. Papadopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-15-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a story, which has taken place many years ago with a specific factory, BIOKERAL. My village is close to an industrial area, and all these years it is downgraded. We developed a movement for the environment, because this factory burned a fuel, the pet coke, if you remember well, and other alternative fuels. This sensitivity to the environment in my village - it was five hundred meters from the factory - was because we believe that we have too many cancer deaths and that was a great signal for us to fix it and to fight for the environment. This factory is closed right now. It also burned other fuels that were sludges and some hospital waste. At the moment, again, it creates a problem because these fuels are being used and the other day, we had a corresponding story. So we have created a movement, which has resulted in this factory no longer using these fuels. The industrialist sued me and a colleague from my village, Ladopoulou, who is a regional consultant for slandering. I mean, here we have a movement that created my face and my forgiveness. This industry has exercised slandering defamation. First of all, I would like to say that the court sentenced me in eighteen months, and I consider the sentence unfair, because we did not get up one morning to do what we did. Here we had a movement, and right here I'm focusing on the criminalisation of movements. Personally, I would like to make a statement that these movements are not being thrown off either, of course, and the faces. And as leftists, who are in these movements, there's no way we're going to back up, whatever their decision. Secondly, I want to make a statement. Never, at least, I in my personal life, but also as a left and in the movements - the issue is not personal - we have not offended anyone with designations. We always have positions and opinions and we claim them. I, too, and many of my companions who go out on the street have never personally attacked anyone and, of course, we want this factory to work again. And I'm going to tell you this strange thing, that in front of his door the gas is going through. So there is a way of reopening this factory and there is a way to see what will happen with the fuels it has in its vast space, which are every one of them ignoring. We had the last 'blue-blue-blue-blue-blue-blue-blue-blue-blue-blue' the other day. So the problem is more general. He's leaving the staff. It is an environmental issue, and that is how we need to see it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-15-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, Mr. Papadopoulos. Ladies and gentlemen, there will be a roll-call vote on this item. A list has been drawn up with the names of colleagues for requesting the waiver of immunity. Every colleague will vote next to the Members' names on whom the waiver of immunity is sought. Any colleague who votes in favour of the waiver of immunity will note his preference next to the Member's name and to the 'NAI' column. In other words, it says "HAI" to the prosecutor's request to waive immunity. Any colleague who votes against the waiver of immunity will take note next to the Member's name and the 'OHIM' column respectively. Any fellow Member who declares a "PRODUCT", will note it in the corresponding column of the vote. Every Member of Parliament will be named, his constituency and the parliamentary group to which he belongs and will sign it, because the vote is rolled out in accordance with Rule 72 of the Rules of Procedure. Subsequently, with his name on the list of colleagues, he will deliver the ballot to colleagues Efstathio Giannakides from SYRIZA and Apostolo Vésiropoulos from New Democracy, who will sign it and announce that the MP has voted. After the end of the vote there will be a counting of the votes by the Members I have mentioned, as will be the result of the ballots, which will be recorded together with the protocol of vote in the Minutes of today's sitting. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-15-S1-commons.u99	So the House unanimously agreed. Finally, I would like to inform you that letters or faxes have been sent to the Bureau by colleagues in accordance with Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure, with which they give their vote. These votes will be announced and taken into account in the following count. Parliamentarians Marios Katsis from SYRIZA and Vasileios Yoyakas from New Democracy are on the list. Please start reading the directory.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-15-S1-commons.u100	Is there a colleague who didn't hear his name? Nobody. The letters sent to the Bureau by colleagues under Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure will be recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-15-S1-commons.u101	Ladies and gentlemen, the vote is adjourned and I would ask the voters to count on the votes and to get the result.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-15-S1-commons.u102	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of a roll-call vote on the request for waiver of immunity from Members of Parliament. A total of 166 Members voted. On the case of Mr Efstathos Panagoulis: In support of the lifting of immunity, namely 'NAH', they voted 76 MPs. On the question of immunity, 89 Members voted against it. "PARON" voted 1 Member. The request of the Public Prosecutor is therefore rejected. [[The protocol and the roll-calls of the roll-call vote shall be recorded in the Minutes and shall be as follows:]] [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[To enter the protocol on page 124a and the lists on page 124b]] On the case of Mr Nikolaos Papadopoulos: In support of the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'NAH', 57 Members voted. On the question of immunity, the House voted at 108 Members' votes. "PARON" voted 1 Member. The request of the Public Prosecutor is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-15-S1-commons.u103	Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-15-S1-commons.u104	With the consent of the House at 13.15 minutes the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday, 16 June 2017, at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, discussion of current questions.
