ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-01-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the SPECIFIC FACILITY ORGANIZATION Special session of Parliament for the seventy years of the Integration of the Dodecanese in Greece and decision to declare 2017 as the year of Dodecanese. This special meeting, which takes place after a decision of the Conference of Presidents, will be the starting point for a series of events in the Dodecanese during 2017 under the auspices of the Parliament, in order to honour the great struggle for the Integration of the Dodecanese into Greece. These events will be held by the South Aegean Region, which will cooperate with the municipalities of the Dodecanese in the framework of and of a donation of the Parliament for this purpose. After all, we have held a special meeting and we have worked with those elected in the Dodecanese. Today's sitting is attended by the S.A. the President of the Republic, Mr Prokopios Pavlopoulos. We are also honored by the presence of the Regional Director of the South Aegean, George Hadjimarkos, former ministers and MPs of the Dodecanese and the Mayors of the Dodecanese. On behalf of the Government, the Vice-President of the Government, Mr Ioannis Drasakis, will speak. Mr. Vice President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-01-S1-commons.u2	Your Honor, Mr President of the Republic, ladies and gentlemen, the Government welcomes the initiative of the Parliament to honour with this special plenary session in the seventy years since the Integration of the Dodecanese in Greece and, of course, we unreservedly welcome the declaration of 2017 as the year of Dodecanese. The Declaration of 2017 as the year of Dodecanese is an opportunity to make the history of the islands and islands more widely known. The Dodecanese, although they were incorporated into the Greek state only in 1947 throughout the centuries, followed the fates of Hellenism, was an integral part of it. Ioannite Knights, Venetians, Ottomans and finally Italian conquerors tried to define the fate of the islands and islands of the southeast Aegean. Every dominance left behind, of course, victims and wounds, but no one managed to alter the identity and nullify the passion of the Dodecanese for freedom, the sea, trade and culture. The geostrategic position of the Dodecanese island, the natural wealth, the naval coexistence, the innovations that have introduced into shipping, and the source capacity of the islands to take risks, create and excellence in many areas of human activity has affected, determined the fate of the inhabitants and islands throughout the centuries and became the apple of Herid for many expansionist empires and aggressive soldiers. At the same time, however, the Dodecanese have always been a place of coexistence and cooperation between different cultures and religions, passing and meeting commercial routes. That is why the Dodecanese were important centres of culture, hubs of transit trade, links between the West and the East, the North and the South. And that is precisely the dimension of the history that is vitally timely, necessary and beneficial everywhere, but even more so in our own flammable region, not only for the inhabitants of the islands, but also for all the peoples of the region, even for those peoples whose representatives sometimes seem to be ignoring this historic truth. Our islands and islanders are heirs and perpetrators of a rich history of struggles for freedom and creation. They are characterized by a lasting offer at home and culture. And yet, today, they are in Europe's forefront to address the huge refugee, humanitarian problem. They showed practical solidarity and more humanity, saving and caring for human lives, as well as the other remote islands of the Aegean. It is worth supporting and shielding these islands from their real needs and their timely crucial role and contribution to peace, stability, cooperation and security in the wider region. The proclamation of 2017 as the year of Dodecanese is therefore an opportunity to get to know and make a wider knowledge of the history of the islands, but also to respond to another task, that is to deal with the modern problems, to highlight them and to try to tackle them and at the same time to exploit the great potential of the islands for the benefit of both the inhabitants and the country as a whole. The islands must fully enjoy the self-evident right to equality and equality, they must enjoy the possibility of exercising appropriate island policies, not as a special privilege, but as a minimum obligation towards them. This is in full correspondence with the government's political will to give an upgraded priority to island policy. The country's Prime Minister in December 2016 from an island of the Dodecanese island, Nisyros, announced an integrated programme of island policies, covering many areas of policy implementation, a grid of island policies, which is already beginning to apply and yield fruit. All health centres and multi-powered doctors with agricultural doctors are assigned additional financial and institutional incentives. At the same time, in cooperation with the Ministry of National Defence, any gaps on the islands with armed doctors are covered. For the development and productive reconstruction of the islands we have already announced a special programme for the islands of the northern Aegean and a similar programme for the southern Aegean with national resources to enhance the development of the islands and employment. In the field of transport, we are immediately promoting the new legislative framework for the operation of the waterways on our islands, while at the initiative of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy and the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, the road map on the islands is being redesigned. We make sure our islands acquire autonomy in water supply and energy proficiency. Finally, we are immediately completing the establishment of the Research Institute for Island Policy which we want to become a permanent centre for studying applied policies for the islands. At the same time, for the first time, we are putting the issue of European island policies at the highest level in the European Union, taking advantage of this and of the fact that the Presidency of the European Union is exercising Malta, whose Prime Minister is now in our country and will shortly meet the Greek Prime Minister. We call on these institutional changes in decision-making to include the island clause not only in national policies, but also in European policies. We also call for the establishment of an island cohesion and development fund for the next programming period. However, the challenges faced by the islands are constant and therefore we must continue to do so, so that islandity in a sense that describes problems and problematic situations, is the field of important initiatives and is a synonym of dynamic change. Ladies and gentlemen, all this requires the closest possible cooperation between the government and the other institutions of democracy, regions and self-government, and requires close cooperation between the state and the social partners. The House has so far played an important role in the promotion of island problems, but also in the promotion of common sites and areas of cooperation and, of course, it can play an even more active role in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-01-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr. Drasakis. The floor is held by the Chief of Officerial Response and President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-01-S1-commons.u4	Mr President, the Republic, ladies and gentlemen, we are here today to remember a moment when Greece was growing up, but we are here to think, to think fertilely, about the history of our country, to think about our historic past and to learn lessons from the past, which offers us simple lessons, lessons about the present, but also lessons about the future of our country. So we remember with joy the Dodecanese union with Greece in 1947. As we know, the Union was decided at the Conference of Peace after the end of World War II. The association has finally shaped the borders of the modern Greek state. At the same time, the union was the vindication of the visions of the Greeks of the Dodecanese, but also the end of a long trial, their own trial. The Dodecanese in the course of time experienced a series of foreign conquerors: the Ioannite Knights, the Ottomans, the Italians since 1912. During the Middle War, fascist Italy exerted terrible pressure on the Greek population. Mussolini Italy wanted the Greeks of the Dodecanese to change their identity. This even attempted to ban Greek education. They did not succeed, but they did not succeed, because the Greeks of the Dodecanese knew who they were and maintained their identity against great difficulties. At the time of the war, indeed, with fascist Italy in 1940 they did their duty. The Dodecanese then volunteered to the ranks of the Greek army and gave a supreme message of patriotism and national self-consciousness. Their vindication came with the victory of freedom forces in the world struggle against aluterism. It was a struggle in which Greece had played a very important role. The story today and in this Chamber is always alive. The 1946-1947 Peace Conference offers us the opportunity to draw some useful conclusions, which are a compass for today's troubled era: Integrating the Dodecanese in Greece was a demand for freedom. It was based on the principle of self-determination of the peoples, which was a dominant claim after the end of World War II. The first general conclusion is that our country's positions must always go hand in hand with the enlightening ideas of the West and we must be pioneers and not a pig. The second special conclusion is that the Dodecanese Union came precisely as a result of Greece's active participation in World War II and as a result of our presence on the side of the winners. Because the basis for the release of the Dodecanese had already been in place since 1940 by the Greek soldiers who stopped the Italian attack, when Greece offered the first victory of the allies against the Axis, when we won the admiration of the freedom forces and even internationally. Be careful, though: Nothing gives you, even if you're right. You have to earn everything. And the liberation of the Dodecanese did not come automatically, only because our positions were fair. It required a serious and painful effort in the international field and at the Conference of Peace. Greece then diagnosed the power connections and managed to secure a strong international support, mainly from Western powers. It was what it served as a catalyst, so that other countries would consent to our rightful request. It was also what prevented complications that could be caused by other stakeholders. The support of the international community was neither given nor self-evident. It was actively pursued, carefully cultivated and systematically cultivated. We never stop learning from history and history always teaches us. And what he teaches us today, seventy years after the history of the Dodecanese union, is the need to always know where Greece is on the great international chess board. This force is not based on great words, it is not caused by meaningless turmoil or by easy turbulence. After all, whenever we attempted them in our history, they brought the disaster. Our power is based on our ability to understand the world around us. It is based on our ability to talk reliably with the big players. It is based on hard and systematic effort. It is based on our ability to be above all serious, realistic and above all reliable. This has always been the foundation of our country's great successes. This was also the basis of the policy of the two major national leaders of the last century, Eleftherios Venizelos and Constantine Karamanlis. This is what we as a country owe as a nation to show today, not only in foreign policy matters, but in every area of policy. Seventy years after the Union, Greece honours and defends its islands. Dodecanese is an integral part of the national area. No one can approve them, no one is allowed to question them. Greece is ready to make this self-evident policy at all levels, diplomatically and operationally, always in a spirit of unity and determination, as expressed today by this formal session of the Greek Parliament, claiming the active support of the European Union and the global community, especially when international law is on our side. All this is of particular importance also within the refugee crisis. Greece, in particular, is entitled to an honest and serious refugee policy, a policy which, on the one hand, sees the problem in its human dimension, but on the other hand, is also seriously confronted with the consequences of the refugee question on the lives of our islands. At the same time, however, we also have to repeat here in this Chamber that the best shield for our islands is their local development and, finally, we need a targeted development policy for our islands. We all need, together with a sense of national unity, to do, at last, an act of the most infamous clause of islandity, which, unfortunately, has often become an empty letter. We need a policy which recognises the specificities and advantages of the islands of the Dodecanese, a policy which gives back the initiative to the people of these islands, which takes account of their particular needs, especially - I dare say, Mr President - the needs of the very small islands, where few locusts are raising the flag of Greece. We're all grateful! This policy must have many different aspects. It requires separate tax interventions. It wants separate care to make it easier not only to access Athens, but also to local administrative centres. He wants more administrative autonomy. Mostly he wants a separate, different concept of everyday life and quality of life. He wants different ideas. Insular Greece is a living constellation. Our islands, all our islands are spots of light. We need to strengthen them, we need to give our islands what is necessary, because there are so many things we have to take from their people. The Dodecanese union with the mother country was a great moment for Hellenism. It was a moment when Greece tolerated - let me say - harvested when it faced the great challenges of history. It was not easy then, as today is not easy. But that doesn't mean we can't. Of course we can. We're here not only to give you power, we're here mainly to honor the power we see in your face. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-01-S1-commons.u5	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty-six students and students and three teachers attending from the 1st General School of Peristeri. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The floor is for the Member of the Dodecanese Coalition, Mr. Dimitrios Gassis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-01-S1-commons.u6	Your Honor, Mr President of the Hellenic Republic, today is a bright day for our country. Seventy years have passed since the Dodecanese, sixty - thirty years of slavery, were rediscovered in the embrace of the mother country. The Special Session of the Plenary Session for the Integration anniversary and our decision as a Parliament of the Greeks to declare 2017 as the year of Dodecanese is a leading symbolic, but also a substantial event. The presence of the entire political leadership and the local government of the Dodecanese, which has pre-existing your presence, Mr President, honors the history, the struggles of the Dodecanese for freedom, democracy and progress. "The dodecanese people are deeply rooted in the concept of the nation and stood within six centuries of slavery of a steadfast and stable and kept a Greek clean as crystal. This is why we, the other Greeks, must be deeply proud of our new free brothers," stresses in his description of the official first day of the Greek Dodecanese the former President of the Republic of Michail Stasinopoulou in 1948 from Rhodes. Having on 7 March as a milestone, I should like to refer specifically to the contribution of the Dodecanese woman and to honour her multi-formal offer in the fight for freedom. Allow me to make a brief reference to the contribution of the women's 'Dodecanese Bee' to the struggle for integration. In Athens and Piraeus during the Messopolitan War, multiplier and living dodecanese settlements were created, which self-determination so that they would not be atonemented, and especially their children, especially when Italian education was imposed on all Greek schools. The displaced Dodecanese founded patriotic organizations that had a vision and aim to unite their country with the mother Greece. In 1931 an inspiring and important woman, Antigoni Zouroudi, just settled in Athens, decided and founded a female patriotic club called "Dodecanese Bees". He gathered the women of the Dodecanese who lived in Athens and Piraeus and all together decided, with their action, to present the Dodecanese issue and the Greekity of the customs, dances, songs of their indebted country. In 1936 he founded - and operated until 1940, when the war was declared and Italy invaded Greece - four "Cyrian Dodecanese Schools", as he called them, in the neighborhoods of Athens and Piraeus. In these schools they taught every Sunday to children, but also to adults, prominent Dodecanese men and women the story of their special homeland. These schools became national nurseries, and with the events they organized they caused alarms in favour of twelfths' rights. In the war, the "Cyrian Dodecanese School" of Antigone Zuroudis is transformed into "Kryphoto School", in a centre of national joy and enthusiasm. All together, they entertained the soldiers who left for the forehead and took care of the wounded returning, hoping that the Greek victory at the northern border would bring their own freedom, and that the Italians, if they lost the war, would leave the Dodecanese. Here we should note that the first Greek officer of the Mississippi Army killed on the forehead of Albania was Alexander Diakos and came from Halki. Following the well-appointed union with "Mother Greece", the "Dodecanese Bee" continued its action at the beginning with the aim of alleviating unreliable brothers, especially young people and children at risk of undermining the Occupation, and then, in the 1960s and until today, working without interruption, it established the grant of scholarships for higher education. At the same time, for us, the Dodecanese, 7 March is not only a anniversary of memory, but also a reference point for the future. It reminds us that we must now, each one of our own role, shape the prerequisites for sustainable and socially just development in our island country, which will eliminate regional, economic and social inequalities. With the creation of a new, extroverted island development model, with policies that will take into account both the geographical characteristics of our islands and the opportunities opened before us, while at the same time promoting international cooperation in our wider region. Cooperation based on friendship with neighbouring countries, the fundamental values of national dignity, solidarity and respect for international treaties, values that unite in the fight for progress and peace away from doubts and doubts. But only a united and mutually united society opens up new opportunities for growth, not the screams of isolation and marginalisation. We have a duty to send a strong message of humanism and solidarity throughout the world, as we know to do, by highlighting the moral values of our culture, at the same time as every human being, every country, every organization before their responsibilities, responsibilities which the islands of the Aegean Sea, with a lot of soul, undertake and manifest by means of acts of altruism every day in the refugee region, contributing cataly to the demonstration of the real face, values, humanism and solidarity of the peoples of Europe. This message sends the Aegean. Your Excellency Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Dodecanese, who have today flooded the gallery, the declaration of 2017 as the Year of Dodecanese from the Greek Parliament shows the determination of the Greek state to defend the purely crystal Greekness of the Dodecanese and to keep the lyrics of the great Dodecanese teacher Fotis Barlis alive: "Foralon to the east on the edge of the Aegean Sea, twelve islands of splendid pearls fleece on the neck of their mother's ornament and spread the laces into the sea. It was Greece once and it will be eternal Greece." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-01-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr. Gaki. Parliamentary spokesman for the People's League Parliamentary Group - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Pappas.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-01-S1-commons.u8	Mr President of the Republic, Mr President of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, I shall begin by quoting a brief timeline of the history of the Dodecanese in the 20th century, which I believe is useful to those who are following us. On May 5, 1912: Tradition of the Turks. The Italians occupy the city of Rhodes and after a few days the rest of the Dodecanese. This is how the first period of Italian rule begins. On 16 July 1919, the Titoni-Venizelos Agreement is signed in Paris, which largely meets the dodecanese and Greek demands. Italy, on the basis of the above Agreement, grants Greece the Dodecanese outside Rhodes, which will remain under Italian sovereignty for five more years until its inhabitants decide by referendum. On 28 August 1920 - or 10 August, according to the Patriarchal Diary - the Treaty of Serbs is signed, according to which Turkey renounces its rights in favour of Italy. While the Treaty is signed, on the same day, by another Treaty, Italy resigns in favour of Greece of all the rights and titles it holds in the Aegean islands occupied by it. September 1922: Italy, taking advantage of the negative development of events by destroying the land of Ionia, declared the special conditions with Greece for the Dodecanese. On 6 August 1923 the Dodecanese are officially annexed to Italian sovereignty. This is how the second period of Italian domination begins in the Dodecanese. In September 1943, with the fall of Mussolini and the conspiracy of the new Prime Minister, General Badolio, there is a dramatic development in the Dodecanese. He is commanding a German general. This is how the period of German domination begins in the Dodecanese. On May 8, 1945, the leader of the German forces of occupation signed the Protocol on condition that the Dodecanese is handed over to the British. On May 9, 1945, English forces, with parts of Indian Orders and men of the Holy Lodge, are disembarked into Rhodes. The people of the city and the villages, holding Greek flags, reserve them a repository reception. It is immediately possible to establish the new authorities. The period of English rule in the Dodecanese begins. According to published testimonies of many Dodecanese, older than that, this almost two - year period of English domination was very hard and perhaps even worse even in Italian. Afterward actions by British colonists in Cyprus, hangings even minors prove the truth. On 27 June 1946, in Paris and in the Foreign Ministers Council of the four forces, it is decided that the Dodecaneses should come to Greece. This is a decision - a stop in the course of the Dodecanese and Greek people, this union with the'mother homeland'. On February 10, 1947, a peace treaty is signed in Paris between allies and coalition forces, including Greece, according to which Italy grants Greece full sovereignty to the islands of the Dodecanese and the adjacent islands. On March 31, 1947, the British commander of the coalition forces, Brigadier General Parker, hands over the military British command to Vice Admiral Pericles Ioannides. A transitional period of the Greek military administration of Dodecanese begins. The registration act of the incorporation of the Dodecanese into the "mother homeland" took place in 1948 under the Law number 518 of the Second Review House of the Greeks, according to which: "The islands of the Dodecanese, Rhodes, Kalymnos, Karpathos, Astypalea, Nissos, Patmos, Halki, Kassos, Symi, Leros, Tilos and Kastelorizos, as well as the adjacent islands, have been attached to the Greek State since 28 October 1947). So the transitional phase of the Greek military administration is defined as the 7th of March 1948 as the day of the official formal incorporation of the Dodecanese. On this anniversary we are celebrating and honoring today at a formal sitting in front of the President of the Republic. Apart from the fairs, however, we also need acts, acts of national responsibility and national policy, acts that guarantee the integrity of the Dodecanese and their islands against the Turkish threat, acts of national priority and security which are found in the proposals of the nationalist movement and its leader. In short, I will mention: extension of territorial waters to twelve nautical miles, demarcation and proclamation of the Greek EEZ and finally a vote by the Greek Parliament of a Greek casus belli - a response to the planned long-term Turkish expansionist and Turkish bulilia. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In an editorial - and I conclude, Mr President - Nikolaos Michaloliakos, Secretary-General of the Golden Dawn, writes in the official newspaper that was released today - I read some quotes: 'The Peace Conference took place in Paris in 1846, while the blood-slapstick was unleashed at the initiative of the Bolsheviks. At the conference, on the one hand, it was the defeated countries and, on the other, the twenty-one winner countries of the war, including Greece. Greece will, however, take a passive stand at the conference, following the United States and England asking them to resign. Our homeland claims the Northern Epirus, Cyprus and the Dodecanese and a regulation of its borders with Bulgaria. The Greek people are anxiously awaiting the results of the conference."
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-01-S1-commons.u9	Please, just shorten up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-01-S1-commons.u10	You haven't told the rest of you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-01-S1-commons.u11	Yes, there's an economy of conversation in general.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-01-S1-commons.u12	Yeah, there's an economy. I'm done. I have told you in my speech that I shall end, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-01-S1-commons.u13	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-01-S1-commons.u14	As long as you're talking to me, you're stalling me. I read further: 'The principle of self-determination of the people is dominated by the conference, but does not apply to the northern continent and Cyprus. The grievance of the English side is a given, since it is known that after the battle of Crete, when King Georgios II and the exiled Greek government were asked to settle in Cyprus in 1941, London refused." It came to a point - and I carry the climate of days - even the famous christographer Paul Paleologist writes that the bells all over the country must be mourning, because there was a betrayal by our allies towards Greece. A few years later, the English would hang Greek birds in Cyprus who were struggling for the union. As for the North continent, it was under a long-standing regime of the Communist dictator Enver Hoja. The climate of the days was expressed with a wonderful song by Sofia Vebo with the following lyrics: "Who really expected it to come out of lies and fairy tales and now forget those words that were told to us every night from their Londons." I will not read all the lyrics for the time economy, Mr President. And I continue, closing down: "Do my courage Greece and as long as you can hold on to your old shoes write what your enemies say. And if the allies were to blow us off with bamboo in sharing, do my courage Greece, do not make me sick, because the people want you to live and you will live."
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-01-S1-commons.u15	Parliament's Vice-President and Member of the Dodecanese Parliament of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Dimitris Kremastinos has the floor. Mr Kammenos will then be given the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-01-S1-commons.u16	Your Honor, President of the Hellenic Republic, has spent sixty years since the 7th of March 1948, a day when the then leader of the Greek state, King Paul, the Dodecanese parents and teared out, led by their mayors, saw the support of the English flag and the incursion of the blue-white in the square of the city hall of Rhodes - there is a photo -, a supremacy of the English flag which since 1945 and for three years flowed there. These genopies in the town hall square weren't the specific people in the photography. They were basically the representatives of hundreds of generations who dreamed on this day. I donated Rhodes to the capital. "You and the Aegean daughter of the sun, diamonds in the Mediterranean that all desire you," the poet wrote. From the god Apollo - Sun who saw Rhodes resurrected from the waters of the Aegean Sea and conquered it, and conquered it and conquered a series of conquerors such as Sarakines, Venetians, Ioannite Knights, Ottomans, Italians, Germans and finally the English came as liberators. Each conqueror always appeared as a liberator from the previous one. Others raced the islands. Others took advantage of them. But what not all of them managed to change their language and religion, namely Greekity. The inhabitants remained consciously all over the centuries Greeks, present in all their nation's struggles, since the hostage years with their triumphs, as Homer in Iliad describes, until World War II with thousands of human sacrifices, with the Holocaust - known to all - of Kassus by the Ottomans. In the '21 revolution, they marked their presence in the struggles for national independence. The first Greek officer to fall into the Greek-Italian war, defending the lands of Greece, was Dodecaneseos Alexandros Diakos from Halki. However, despite all their struggles, the Dodecanese have not been able to free themselves. Finally, Greece was given a recommendation by Molotov, Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Soviet Union. Since the allies did not grant islands - bases in the Soviet Union, it was logical that the Soviet Union should not wish the presence of the English in the Dodecanese. So after three years of command of the English, the English also finally left. However, all these conquerors of the islands who tried to resurrect, still banning Greek books and Greek languages from schools - last played the fascist regime of Mussolini - they all respected one thing: the economy of the islands. Even the sultans gave them financial advantages. Who's that for? Simply to keep the populations on the islands, who, due to unfavourable geographical and economic conditions, were massively abandoning them. Mass migration is characteristic at the beginning of the 20th century. At that time on many islands there was a dramatic decline in their populations by thousands of inhabitants who were then resident in some hundreds who now live in Kastelorizo, Halki, Symi. What should I first list? However, this particular feature of the economy of the islands, which all conquerors respected, forced the Greek governments from the date of integration to maintain a special customs and tax regime for the Dodecanese until Greece became a member of the European Union, so Andreas Papandreou differentiated the VAT of the rest of the country so that he could financially and above all make his tourism competitive with his neighbour Turkey's tourism. The position that all the Greek governments have held to date must also be maintained by the current one, which unfortunately has made the VAT of Rhodes and Karpathos equal to the rest of the country, while until the end of the year it appears that the troika is irrevocably seeking to extend this regime to all the islands. This will lead, Mr President, gradually to loss of competitiveness, to tourist levels, to the neighboring country and will cause the islands to fall further in their history. The Dodecanese have the same demand from the government today as far as the economy is concerned. The same requirement is for health. They consider it unacceptable that all the Dodecanese should not be given priority on health when it is the most remote part of the country, with Kastelorizo being one and a half miles from Turkey and three hundred and twenty-five miles from Piraeus. How can the Kasteloriers feel protected for their health? One and a half miles or three hundred and twenty-five miles? They are simply asking for the relevant article of the Constitution on island policy to be implemented on islands. How can these people come to Athens and stay suffering from the epileptic disease, for example - second cause of the death of the population - weeks or months in hotels and hospitals, waiting lists, to make life-saving radiation treatments? And today the Ministry of Health has effectively suspended the creation of the radiotherapy centre in Dodecanese, which has been taking place for three years? Finally - because we also have the subject of time, Mr President - we regard the cornerstone of respect for the conditions that have been ratified by the great Greek and Turkish politicians, Eleftherios Venizelos and Kemal Ataturk and have so far ensured peace and progress in the Aegean Sea and in Turkey and Greece, peace which, unfortunately, are trying unwisely for internal reasons to put at risk. With these thoughts today, the Dodecanese, in the presence of the President of the Hellenic Republic, celebrates this historic anniversary, while at the same time setting the most basic conditions for its survival. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-01-S1-commons.u17	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Greek Parliament, thirty-nine students and students and two educational sessions from the 2nd Glyfada Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The President of the Group of Independent Greeks and Minister for National Defence Mr Panagiotis (Panos) Kammenos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-01-S1-commons.u18	Your Excellency Mr. President of the Hellenic Republic, it is a great honour to present your presence today and a special symbolism. We welcome you to the Greek Parliament, which has served for so many years, as we welcome the elected princes of the Dodecanese. I also welcome the Members of Parliament who are here today and who, each of their own, have given the great battle for the Dodecanese and continue with their presence, but also with their love for the islands to help island policy, especially the Dodecanese. I feel very touching, and as a Dodecanese from my mother, from Nikia, Nisyros, to be at Step today and to see that after too long in the Greek Parliament there is a different climate than there are other days. I am particularly pleased to see the Greek people and Members applaud the speakers united. And this is an important message to both the Dodecanese and to our critics, but also to all those who are trying to alter Greek history and to oversee the national sovereignty and integrity of our country. Today's debate on the incorporation of the Dodecanese is a debate which, in fact, the historical elements, which have been said, are a strengthening element of the importance of the great act of integration after struggles. And it's characteristic - I read before I came here to the Ministry of National Defence - how the 14th of May is described when the ABEROF with the Macarous Damascus is approaching the Port of Rhodes. They write in the ship's logbook: "We didn't know the land from the sea." And he wondered, "Where had so many blue-white ones hidden?" And former President of the Hellenic Republic Michael Stasinopoulou continues, with a very flagrant element of the dodecanese psychiatry himself: "After the flag, everyone went to visit the cemeteries to tell those who fought for the release of the Dodecanese that we were free." These two events are important for the history of the Dodecanese and for the desire of the Dodecanese and the Dodecanese for integration with the mother country. I think that today we need to make another reference to the Dodecanese expatriates who have had to leave Australia, America in particular, but also in Europe, and now they are prominent figures in the places to which they have emigrated. But they never forget mother home, never forget our islands. However, I would like to make special mention here today from the Step of the Greek Parliament and those locusts, who do not live on large islands, guarding Thermopyles, continuing the tradition of the Lord of Ro: our soldiers in Strongyli, Pharmacysi, our islands in China, Levitha, Syrna, Pyrimo, Gyli, Arquis, Marathi, Kallimnos, all those who live in Telendos, two - three people, four - five families, on difficult winter days, guarding Thermopyles, maintaining economic life on the island and protecting national sovereignty. I would ask, Mr President, that, with you, the Greek Parliament adopt even one of these small islands, which continue to guard Thermopylae in difficult circumstances. Finally, I believe that we must pay particular tribute to certain personalities who have fought for the insularity and the vote of Article 101 of the Constitution, such as the late Mayor of Tilos, Tasos Aliferis, but also the former Mayor of Leipson, my friend Mr Benetos, and many who have given the first proposals for creating the famous transport equivalent that our islanders deserve and which is something we must vote on and implement. We must - and I fully agree here - fight with all our forces for the special tax regime on the islands and the privileges to be granted in order to balance the difficult life that our islanders are spending, particularly during the winter, with a lack of medical care, with a lack of those educational opportunities which have children from metropolitan Greece, with a lack of basic goods, if you like. I believe, Mr President, that it is our duty to apply Article 101 of the Constitution to every bill of insularity. In conclusion, I would like to describe to you how important this is to understand in Europe. About six months ago, the Dutch Minister of National Defence made an official visit to Greece. After going to Chios, we then visited Pharmaconisi, where they gave her honors, the Pharmacy, the Officer, the Officers and the soldiers, who were there. At noon we went to Agathonisi, where the Mayor and the inhabitants of Agathonissius accepted it. You know that in Agathonisi in winter there is no open store for her to make the table. They had cooked, then, the island’s women, the fishermen had made a bad life. After eating with the Minister of Defence of the Netherlands, the Mayor of Agathonissius said to her: "Minister, you are the first Minister of the European Union, from a European country, from the entry of Greece into the EEC, who is on our island. I don't have to give you the Golden Key to City. I'm giving you the key to my house. And it's the key to all of us." These are the Dodecanese. And this is, unfortunately, also the lack of care on the part of the European Union - but we too have our responsibilities - towards this island state of Europe. I therefore believe that we should continue to fight for the specificity of islands, which is provided for by the Greek Constitution and the European institutions, by providing for the islands' special funds, which will help to develop on the islands. There's a lot we can do. The Dodecanese can now become, due to the security that Greece provides throughout the Mediterranean, the entrance and exit of the cruise. In this area too, the Ministry of National Defence, in cooperation with the Ministry of Tourism, but also with the tourist businessmen, has already drawn up a plan for the possibility of taking advantage of the Prasonissian expedition, so that we can create the entrance and exit of the cruise in the Mediterranean. I believe that, as far as medical care is concerned, we need to move on to measures. At the moment, we meet needs with soldiers, who can also take care of the Ministry of Health to prescribe. But that's not a solution. We must give incentives so that teachers and doctors can go to the islands and not just during the summer season. Finally, Mr President, the presence of all of us in the Dodecanese and in our remote islands is very important. It is important that all the Committees of the Parliament are present, in order to examine the specificities that islands require, as provided for by the Constitution, especially in the area of the Dodecanese, but also in the northern Aegean, which we are all celebrating today integrating with the mother country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-01-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mr President. Please begged the First Vice President of the Parliament, Mr Anastasios Kourakis, to take over the Chair. Mr President of the Republic, thank you for your presence.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-01-S1-commons.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we can continue the process as we have started. Mr Stavros Tassos, Member of the Communist Party of Greece, has the floor now. Your Honor, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-01-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr President. Today we honour the seventyth anniversary of the incorporation of the Dodecanese into Greece. We believe that this anniversary, like the others on important historical events, is a good opportunity to examine and recall useful conclusions, which concern not only the past, but are closely bound up with the present, much more that we are living in an area of intense competition, where Imperialist wars are under way, which have, in fact, been muddled by millions of people and have led to the refugee. I'm not going to make an extensive reference to history. I will begin with the Treaty of Serbs, by which the Dodecaneses who had been occupied by Italy since 1912 in the Italian-Turkish war have remained in Italy. The concession of the Dodecanese to Italy, as is well known, was reaffirmed by the Treaty of Lausanne. The Italian-Turkish Agreement of January 1932 and the Supplementary Protocol of 28 December 1932 demarcated the sea borders of the two countries between the Asia Minor coast and the Dodecanese complex. The Italian and German occupations ended on 8 May 1945 with the surrender of German troops. The entire twelve - year - old people welcomed the departure of the Germans and the arrival of the English. Freedom, however, did not come and the new conqueror came to succeed the previous ones. The hopes of the dozens of people for liberation have been disguised by the harsh reality. Italian fascist legislation has been kept in force and implemented hard. Thus, the question came up with the establishment of a Palestinian organization, which incorporates the best Greek traditions of the Dodecanese and at the end of 1945, after a decision of the JRC, which in July 1945 had created its party organisation in the region, the National Front Pandodecanese Liberation, the NRC. Finally, in accordance with Article 14 of the Treaty of Paris, Italy grants in 1947 the islands of the Dodecanese as well as the islands concerned. The handover of Dodecanese to the Greek Admiral Ioannides by the English took place on March 31, 1947, in Rhodes. On May 13, 1947, the arrests of NDP members and officials began on the charges of the last betrayal. They stayed in prisons and exiles until about 1960. This is how the Greek state honoured them for their offer, as it did in general, of course! Today, seventy years after the incorporation of the Dodecanese into Greece, we are experiencing an escalation of the claims of the Turkish bourgeoisie, to the detriment of our country's sovereign rights. Claims fuelled and developed in conditions of strong competition in the urban classes of the countries in the region, where our country is also actively participating, on the background of imperialist projects promoted by the US, NATO and the European Union in their competition with Russia, China and other powerful countries, to control the rich deposits of hydrocarbons and energy pipelines. The SYRIZA-ANEL co-government, like other urban parties, assumes serious responsibilities, because they reassurance the people, delusionally cultivating that allegedly, the escalation of claims is merely due to Turkey's internal problems, while they are deeply linked to the extreme competitions in the control of the region. The government looks forward to the role of the US, NATO and the European Union, which presents them as a guarantee of stability and security in the region, while they are bodies of imperialist interventions and wars, supports the naval presence in the Aegean Sea, has the basis of Souda and other military bases, promises to create a new naval base in Karpathos, deepening the country in imperialist plans. In these circumstances, the JRC calls on our people to be vigilant, to escalate their struggle, to close all the naval bases in Greece, to leave NATO from the Aegean, to return the Greek military forces from NATO and the European Union missions, to free Greece from NATO and the European Union. Seventy years after the liberalisation and integration with Greece, Dodecanese followed the course of the recovery of the Greek economy, which, of course, took place at the expense of workers and the people. Seventy years later, the islands did not become prosperous islands. The infamous islandity did not prevent taxation, the abolition of reduced rates of VAT, the deforestation of all public services by staff, the deterioration and depreciation of public structures, municipal services, which lead to privatisation. Water, waste, public real estate, beaches, protected areas of NATURA, ports, marinas, transport, all available for profitable business in capitalists. The islanders continue to remain without regular, cheap and safe transport, isolated, especially in winter, since the importance of shipping for the respective government focuses mainly on the demands of the tour operators, on the requirements of business groups in tourism. The airports of Rhodes and Kos, with an important geostrategic importance for the national security of the country, will also be officially in the hands of the "FRAPORT". What support are we talking about today, seventy years later? As regards health, all health establishments, hospitals, health centers and regional hospitals are tragically subordinated, while some islands are left without a doctor, as is the case recently in Tilos, for which we have tabled a relevant timely question. The same tragic deficiencies exist in the adequacy of health material and medicines. In the same situation is the EAW, which puts the health and life of islanders at risk. Key infrastructure, anti-military protection and earthquake shielding remain promises for decades. The fires, finding appropriate ground in indifference and serious shortages, have often devoured the precious forests of the islands. The CAP does not make an exception to the farmers of the islands, and so does fishermen, for the whole of the primary sector. The anniversary of the release and integration of the Dodecanese is a source of conclusions for islanders. Today, the modern content of the EMRP wrestling and the struggle to reconstruct the labour movement is for the social alliance, the struggle against capitalism and imperialism, for a society where this people who produce wealth, material and spiritual, will be entitled to and will enjoy it. What they have done and which we need to learn, we need to bring them to life with the new resistance and counter-attack of our times, in order to bring the victory of our people closer to the new conditions.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-01-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr Stavros Tassos, MP of the Communist Party of Greece. The President of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) has the floor now. Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-01-S1-commons.u23	The President of the Republic was obviously busy. It's okay. The tapes are also saved. I hope that it does not score parties to someone who must listen to others who must not listen. In my view, it had to remain. I'm telling my opinion, from there on...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-01-S1-commons.u24	Mr President, if I may, on the basis of a protocol, when the President of the Republic is present, meetings cannot take longer than one hour. That is why and you understand that it also has a practical effect.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-01-S1-commons.u25	Mr President, please take the floor...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-01-S1-commons.u26	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-01-S1-commons.u27	Mr Pavlopoulou, the President of the Republic, had an international meeting at 11 o'clock, and that is why it was a meeting between 10 and 11, apart from what you said it lasted an hour. He has already asked me to say to the Chamber that his absence obviously has nothing to do with first- or second-class parties.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-01-S1-commons.u28	Okay. I didn't know all this. I respect him anyway.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-01-S1-commons.u29	That's why I was saying about the next year's economy. Now you understand that, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-01-S1-commons.u30	The issue of the Dodecanese and Rhodes is a big issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-01-S1-commons.u31	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-01-S1-commons.u32	It's not a small matter. The debate had to take place at ease, because at present national interests are at stake in the Dodecanese region. Turkey raises the issue of islands. I do not think it is appropriate for the President of the Republic to go out and for a minister to answer and play this game, the Ping-Pong of communications which, in the end, - do not doubt - will lead to a warm episode. When we have a hard statement from here every day and another hard statement from there, they turn the blood on and it will once again be lost control. That is my humble view. That is why I believe that one hour has not been sufficient parliamentary time to commemorate such a serious issue. I want to say two things. I won't say much, so I brought help today. The status of the islands of the south-eastern Aegean - which are the Dodecanese - has one particular feature. It is the right of legal defence, which Turkey is questioning. Sets casus belli for territorial waters. Turkey has threatened with casus belli. He's invaded and occupied Cyprus. That's the second one. It also makes continuous violations of national airspace and overcrowding over the Aegean islands, even over the inhabited islands. That's a challenge. To this challenge we respond by statements from the President or we hunt them from behind and then leave and declare "whenever you want to be thrown into the sea" etc. Why now are the Dodecanese important? Because the EEZ of Kastelorizos is of decisive importance, because with this maritime border of Greece it meets with those of Cyprus and further Turkey does not have a maritime border with Egypt, since Kastelorizo belongs to Greece. Turkey's contact is lost - Egypt and Greece's contact is being created. This is very important. Kastelorizo, that is, is the far-sighted end of Hellenism right now. I also want to give the Minutes a book. There's a book by George Black. It's all I had, I had no more. I've taken it from the Foundation "Centre Leaders". When Constantine Karamanlis won the 1974 elections, George Black was Vice-President of the Government and had achieved some condemnative resolutions of the Security Council and the UN against Turkey. So George Black goes to Karamanlis and gives him what I am showing you and delivering it to the Minutes, and he says: "To God, do not make bilateral contacts with Turkey, because Turkey will find an opportunity to keep adding to the agenda of its claims and other things. Everything that you are having with Turkey is being done through the UN and through the Security Council, not bilaterally. It is the easy solution for Turkey to claim." And here I have a complaint from a Constantine Karamanlis who came back from Paris, that he didn't spend a month and arranged a meeting with the Turkish leader bilaterally, since he took over. In other words, he violated this suggestion, which was the suggestion of a person who was involved, while he was the leader of the largest party. Before 1967 the great party was the Union of Centres. So D'Esten brought us and loaded us Karamanlis. George Black to help, at those critical times, he went Vice President while representing the major party, because all foreigners wanted Karamanlis and foreigners arranged what was going to happen here in Greece. It has therefore offered a number of resolutions, a great diplomatic success. He's giving it to him. And as long as I read to you the first, which is a statement by the Turkish Minister. It has gathered the statements of all Turks, it is not now the declarations for the islands. That is not the case today. Now you think the Turks started asking? Erkin's statement of 1964: "These were mistakes from both the Turkish and Greek leadership after the two world wars. First mistake: When Kemal, with the Treaty of Lausanne, accepted the annexation of the Aegean islands to Greece. Second mistake: When Greece at the Conference of Peace in Paris in 1946-1947, it did not offer at least half the Dodecanese in Turkey to strengthen Greek-Turkish friendship." So it is not at present a question of claiming the islands. I'm tabling it for the Minutes, because it won't exist. [[Mr Vassilis Leventis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It is what George Black was involved in Constantine Karamanlis when he lost the election and became Certified Opposition, when George Black and Karamanlis got 24%. Because of the electoral system, which was the enhanced analogy, it took two hundred and twenty MPs. You remember them. There were seventy-five seats in the bonus then. To live a little while in the "assistance" of the bonuses that some want to form governments! What I wanted to remind you - and that is why I wanted to be present here and the President - is that when the crisis broke out, I sent a letter to the President of the Republic, asking for the summit of political leaders. Why did I ask her? On the issue of the Armed Forces. I am concerned about two things and I will say them in this Chamber, because I cannot say them: First, I've been told we don't have an army. We have a little army. With these cuts that have been made, we have a little army. The others have a million people and we have a little army in men. You know, the generals told me that the pedestrian pedestrian is the one guarding the ground. It can't keep the plane or the ship ground. The second is the F35 issue. I know it's the crisis, I know that pensions have been cut, I know the economic dystomia, but do you want them to threaten safely? I know that there will be a test, because the others opened the door of the madhouse and, as George Papandreou said, we will enter. If the Turks open the door to the madhouse, we'll enter. So on this great day, there are good speeches about some Dodecanese who were important, who gave their blood, etc., but now, Greece must guarantee the Dodecanese. And there might be a threat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-01-S1-commons.u33	Thank you to the President of the Group of the European Central Bank, Mr Vasiliou Leventis. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, sixteen students and students and an educational attendant from the 45th Municipal School of Athens. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] To inform the children that they are attending the House meeting for the seventy years of the incorporation of the Dodecanese into Greece and a decision will be made to declare the year 2017 as the year of Dodecanese. We shall now proceed to the speakers. Mr Stavros Theodorakis has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-01-S1-commons.u34	Dear islanders, thank you for being here. Ladies and gentlemen, it is an opportunity to say a few words about patriotism. On March 31, 1947, the Greek flag rises in the castle of Rhodes. As well as Michael Stasinopoulou, the later President of the Republic, political advisor at the time of the Greek military administration. Later Stasinopoulou tells that thousands of Roditas left and went to the cemetery to tell their dead that the Dodecanese is finally free. So think of the Rodites around the crosses talking to their dead, all the people who died or lost during the struggle. I am thinking of this picture and I wonder: Today, seventy years since then, where should we go and what should we say? That is the question we have to answer today, tomorrow and in a few days' time that is 25 March. What's our patriotic struggle? In the past, this question had simpler answers. We wanted our lands, the lands inhabited by the Greeks. It is a goal that was achieved, a goal that was dynamised at some times when patrioticism was replaced by majesticism. But it was finally achieved. Today, when we don't claim land, what is patriotism? What's patriot? Is patriotism evaporated in memories? So patriotism for us, and I hope for all of us it is not just the defence of the soils of the air and sea. Patriotism is to stand firm on your feet, to create a national productive base, to solve problems and to create conditions for people to be happy. Patriotism is not the memory of the great and glorious past. Patriotism is to take the Greek flag and bring it all over the world, in Australia, in South Africa, in Canada, in Florida where the Dodecanese have great colonies. In the global village we live today we need an extroverted patriotism and not a horrific patriotism that sees all enemies. So patriotism is not the slogans and crowns. It is not patriotism, nationalism and division. We will insist on our proposal to set up a national security council chaired by the Prime Minister, with the participation of the Heads of the parties, the former Prime Ministers, the Foreign and Defence Ministers and the natural leadership of the army. National security is a matter of everyone. We need to send a message to our neighbors. The Aegean must be a sea of peace. Together we will live, together we will advance and do not fit in this relationship of pricks, threats and impressions. Ladies and gentlemen, in closing, I would like to thank our islanders for their contribution to dealing with refugee and migration flows. They've taken more responsibility than the one that suits them. Solidarity in words is easy, but in our islands this has been done. I have recently been given the opportunity to meet with people who recommend major decisions to the European Union. I have proposed, as I have already informed the mayors of the islands, that our islands should be financed directly from European programmes, from European funds. They told me that it is not easy and that we need to change the regulations. So, let's change the rules. To reach agreement on the parties, all parties and insist on them. This is a definite patriotic act in Greece of 2017. To recognise, in other words, the great offer of our islands to deal with migration and refugee flows. We must strengthen them and support their struggle in every way so that they can continue. Thank you, patriots.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-01-S1-commons.u35	Thank you to the President of the River Parliamentary Group Mr Stavros Theodorakis. Ladies and gentlemen, we have two letters to the Bureau of Parliament from Members. Mr Marios Georgiadis announces that it will be a long way from today's special plenary agenda in order to attend the EDP conference in Brussels. Mr Koumoutsakos is requested to be granted a residence permit from 1 to 2 March 2017 as he will be absent abroad due to party obligations. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-01-S1-commons.u36	The House therefore approved the requested permission. This is where the House is requested to make a decision, which in 2017 is declared the Dodecanese Year.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-01-S1-commons.u37	The House therefore unanimously agreed on this historic decision. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the topical and urgent debate on Thursday 2 March 2017. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 524/24-2-2017 topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition, Alexandros Triantafylides, to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, about the "explosive need for school accommodation in Western Thessaloniki and especially in the Municipality of Cordelios - Evosmos". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Under No 521/23-2-2017, a topical question by MP I Athens, New Democracy Mrs Olga Kefaloyannis, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, about the findings of management of the Anonymous Company of Intellectual Property (API). 3. PASOK-DIMAR Mr Athanasios Theocharopoulos to the Minister of National Defence on the immediate update of the design of the supply of new armaments. 4. The 527/24-2-2017 topical question by MP Lesvos of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Stavros Tassos to the Minister of Health, about Tilos' Polypowerful Regional Medicine. 5. The 526/24-2-2017 topical question by MP 2 Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the findings of the Anonymous Company of Intellectual Property (ESPI). B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 525/24-2-2017 topical question by MP Ioannina of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Christos Mandas to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, about the recognitions of the Interdisciplinary Organisation for the Recognition of Academic and Information Titles (IODAP) in postgraduate universities in Cyprus and Italy and the partnerships with higher education institutions in our country. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Evia of New Democracy Mr Simos Kedicoglou to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport regarding the construction of the project, "Basil of Chalkida, part of N. Lampsakos - Psachna". 3. The question by No 520/23-2-2017 of the Member of Parliament of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Koutsoukos to the Minister of Finance, concerning the "silence of Mr. Tsakalotou and the government's commitments". 4. The question by No 528/24-2-2017 of the Greek Communist Party MEP Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity concerning delays in the payment of the unemployment benefit for seasonal workers. 5. The question under number 468/13-2-2017 by MP I Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition, Alexandros Triantafylides, to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, concerning the extension of the metro of Western Thessaloniki. 6. The question by number 461/8-2-2017 of MP II Athens of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Helen Zarulia to the Minister of the Interior, on the "terrorist attack by kalashnikov against men of MATs". 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The question by No 470/13-2-2017 of the President of Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMARK Vasilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, concerning the transfer for two more years of the project "Panamomomos - Exantis". 8. - The question asked by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister for the Environment and Energy about the transfer of PPC's users to companies of alternative electricity providers. 9. The question raised by Mr Georgios Amyras on the incineration of the dead in Greece under number 469/13-2-2017. 10. The Question No 467/10/10/2017 by Evia MP of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Nicholas Michou to the Minister of Health on the "strengthening impediment to the fulfillment of a term of will, which provides for the establishment of an oncological clinic in Chalkida". 11. The Question No 405/30-1-2017 by MP Greven of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Christos Beyala to the Minister of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, on the transition to the digital signal for large parts of the province. 12. Under No 434/2-2-2017, the current question by MP II of the People's Association - Golden Dawn, Ilias Panayotarou to the Minister of the Interior, concerning "anothermal action by Turkish agents and their representatives in Thrace". 13. Observations of the Court of Justice The question by No 435/2-2-2017 of MP II Athens of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mrs Helen Zarulia to the Minister of Finance, concerning the "definition of judge in the administration of the Supreme Council". 14. Observed. The Question No 367/20-1-2017 by MP Evia of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nicholas Michou to the Minister of Home Affairs on the "unacceptable displacement of 36,769 Greek children from nursery stations". 15. Under number 338/13-1-2017, a topical question by Congressman I Piraeus of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nicholas Kouzilou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the 'perspective of the residence of the 28 islands that upgrades the national sovereignty and strengthens the sovereign rights of the country'. 16. Observations of the Committee of the Regions The question by No 430/31-1-2017 of the Greek Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Georgios Arvanitidis to the Minister of the Interior about the significant reduction of firepower in the Regional Unit of Thessaloniki. 17. The Question No 333/12-1-2017 by MP Achaias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Theodoros Papatheodorou to the Minister of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information on the financing of journalists and websites. 18. The Question No 456/7-2-2017 by MP Achaias of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity concerning workers and self-employed persons with service permits. 19. The 439/6-2-2017 topical question by MP V' Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Finance regarding the transfer of PPC users to companies of alternative electricity providers. 20. The question by number 488/16-2-2017 of the Member of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Michael Jeleigh to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the problems in implementing measure 11 of the Agricultural Development Programme (PAA) 2014-2020 in organic livestock farming. 21. The question raised by Mr Georgios Amyras at number 498/20-2-2017 about the 'SIEMENS' case. 22. The Question No 493/17-2-2017 by MP Magnesia of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Panagiotis Iliopoulou to the Minister of Finance about the public's dues to private individuals. 23. (Bull. Question No 499/20-2-2017 by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Kingdom Kegeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the supply of plant protection medicinal products that cancels the collective tactics programme. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Question No 2787/23-1-2017 by Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis, Vice-President of Parliament, and Member of Parliament, Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis, Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the management and exploitation of the real estate of the Ministries of Health and Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No 446/18-10-2016 by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassiliou Kegeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the serious problems faced by farmers. 3. The question asked by MP Laconia of New Democracy Mr Athanasios Davakis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy about the flooding of the Laconia Prefecture. 4. The question and application under number 1996/90/14-12-2016 by MP Laconia of the New Republic Mr Athanasios Davakis to the Minister of National Defence concerning estimates of revenue from the exploitation of real estate by the Armed Forces. Ladies and gentlemen, the Special Session of the House for the seventy years of the incorporation of the Dodecanese into Greece has been completed and a decision has been made to declare 2017 as the year of Dodecanese. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-01-S1-commons.u38	With the consent of the House at 11.36 hours the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Thursday 2 March 2017 at 09.30 p.m., on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny: topical questions.
