ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Continue the debate on the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Structuring the State Budget for the financial year 2018’. The speaker of the New Democracy, Mr Constantine Tasoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u2	I have heard Members of the majority who are cut from the Step that we are called upon to vote on the last Memorandum of Understanding. It will not be its memory as the last Memorandum of Understanding that will make us remember it as much as its memory will be as the first memorial and a period of development that will be voted on in 2019 or 2020 to remind us, in 2019 or 2020, of the budget, which we are voting today, from what great mistakes we are beginning to unblock. I therefore welcome the precursors of the first review of the post-Syrian period and I welcome these prefectures by voting against them. I am aware that the differences which exist in this period of the last three years with the previous period, the memorial and cruel to the Greek people with many sacrifices, are that the period of the last three years has accumulated measures, cuts and austerity of 14.5 billion. The share of the year that comes reaches 2 billion unnecessarily, ideologically and on the basis that the Greek people have to pay the tuition fees for heavy landing in the reality of the SYRIZA - ANEL government. And it is not so much to conflict and oppose the fact that the surplus, blood surplus, comes from over-taxation of the rich - which are rich now, so - or if it comes - as we believe - from over-taxation of the middle and low income class as the issue and division between the view that this government has actually taken on the level of the economic resilience of the Greek people, lowering the level, while the objective and purpose is always to rise. The exit from the memorandum - which you are again contemplating that it will become very clear in August 2018 - is not the question of whether it will be clean or with measures. We all know that it is on measures and we have nothing but to visit the website of the newspaper of the Government to look at these measures, which you have voted on in advance. The question is whether we're going out dragging or going out on a steady step towards growth. A stable step towards growth comes from this budget only measures, cutbacks and taxes. Development has been identified, identified. Growth is about reforms in justice, speeding up, reforms in public administration, reforms in the tax system, so that this tripartite of reforms will prove to be a rewarding factor for investment, a export rewarder, ultimately for the competitiveness of the economy, which in recent years of your own governance has been brought to bear by 87nd place at 138h. As I will finish my speech, I will become 140th, because it is a rapid fall in the competitiveness of the Greek economy. And all this complex of opinions and ideas, which goes on to you, that you have been hitting social inequality and helping the helpless, it has to do with your desire to make it and the desire of the unavoidable members of society, the desire of people who are in a bad position, permanently replace the normal pharmacy with the social pharmacy, the normal grocery store with the social grocery store, normal tourism with social tourism. And in fact, this desire to permanently impose social measures on a society that needs to fly with its own wings and not to be narrow under the grasp of any government, this mania has something to do with your ideology, it has to do with the social envy triggered by left ideology, and it has to do with the fact that you are turning those who are helpless not to aspiration to be helpless in finding work, but to constantly aspiration to hail, resent others to grow their ranks. We want, as has been said by this Step repeatedly, the upright Greece - as it still stands - to lift the kneeling up. And not for the kneeling Greece to pull the line down, as this budget is also ambitious. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, that you are reasonably protesting technologically. The exit from the memorial tombs will occur either with herpes or with a candle ahead. Who guarantees the herpes translated it into elementary school. Municipal herpes means sliding to the ground. That is why we are voting against the budget.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr. Tasoula. Ms. Hara Kideidou from the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today, and in this budget debate, we are taking part in the government's three-year performance "Tonight we are improvising". If the government succeeds and runs out in 2018, it will implement the third in a row, which will set on the wall those who did not manage to destroy in the previous years. It has received a country that had just found its balance, with domestic product slightly positive and dynamic recovery prospects and in three years it has achieved too much. He managed to increase the risk of child poverty and social exclusion in all productive ages, with the peak of the spear over the sixteen to twenty-four years. Mr. Ministers, are these people to whom you say that "there will be no pan-Hellenic examinations", that "you will vote in sixteen and a half", you talk to them about Roman student movements and other such successes. You managed to send the country "cathidri" to the hundredth-sixteenth place, between Nigeria and Bangladesh, as far as the Economic Freedom Index is concerned, which you know is directly linked to investments. It succeeded - it says - the government to reduce unemployment. This "magic" with three years of uninterrupted recession to reduce unemployment is really worth wondering. Do you know what you've done? You just think you know division. You have reduced full-time employment and increased parttime work. In 2017, partial and rotating recruitment reach 60% of total recruitment. Do you remember that "generation of 700 euros"? Do you remember your commitment to a minimum wage of EUR 751? Today, where is the entire government's democratic equilibrium for the generation of 360 euros? But this is how you reduce unemployment, dividing the 'fly'. And because with your policies you have managed to throw away another world abroad, you forge this successful recipe and make it a flag. Ladies and gentlemen, the government response to all of this is permanent and is one: The obsession with overtaxation. She's the one you know, she's the one you trust. Is it effective? Oh, no. Is it increasing revenue? Oh, no. Does the government think that by imposing new taxes it will be able to overcome the problems? No, of course not. But he does think so to prolong the pleasure of the chair. And the outsides, our partners, for the time being, are doing what they think about their own reasons. Good-bad, though, they also send a tailor - eighty-two prerequisites - to keep their heads in peace. In 2017 you predict growth of 2.7% and we finally get to close with turtle rate at 1%. With seven hundred thousand people who, before the crisis, belonged to the middle class, are now faced with poverty, instead of finding a hole in hiding, saying optimistic, you speak of a positive sign in the economy. The banking system, which was stabilised and could face the problem of red loans until then, you, the protectors of the poor and the unjust, and today there are fair and unfair auctions. Equivalent to everyone, strategic mispaids with people holding nails and teeth their homes and preparing to face the ending of the law of PASOK, the Katseli Act, on December 31st. Today, red loans have exceeded 110 billion. In the banks we have less than 43 billion deposits, and late tax debts exceed 100 billion. You have imposed confiscations and asset commitments on 58% of Greeks, on nine hundred seventy-one thousand four hundred twenty-nine taxpayers. Six out of ten felt the nightmare of seizures. So what are you telling us? That all these citizens belong to the pluralism of canalarchs, shipowners, dark business circles and your government, protector of weak and sensitive social groups, came to impose social justice and redistribution of wealth? And he made it with a million seizures? You have committed in the medium term to 3.5% of GDP primary surpluses by 2022, high surpluses by 2060, you have taken 16 billion extra measures, with mortgage on the country's total assets for ninety-nine years. Have you tied us in hand and dare to talk about soft adaptation, clean exit and declare and happy? "Greece is a comeback," the Prime Minister says. Finally, it is this Greece that makes the comeback. Gentlemen of the government, do you remember the Prime Minister in the Acropolis two years ago and just the day before, who welcomed development? Development went by and didn't touch. Development and disinvestment are not going together. The forecast for investment in 2017 from 9.1% has reached 5.1% and, unfortunately, the country needs 120 billion investments. And you, instead of looking at how to bring investments, find an ancient way to the highways of the Greek and forest. And since it was brought by the conversation, what about the part of civilization, ladies and gentlemen of the government, our heavy industry? What does the budget provide for? It predicts, just to tell you, that a lot of things we've given arrives, so go on as you can. Take money from the LPD, you do a NPV, which in any case sprinkles the Ministry's drawers and we see. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Really, can the Ministry tell us how many new projects it has included in the ESRB? Not what you received, but new, your own plays. And go back to the investments. Visits for no photo opportunity of brand new philosophical SYRIZA, but so far they have put an eighty thousand businesses enclosed. The 2018 budget provides - to be precise - for a growth rate of 2.5%. Your budgetary board said a little politely, 'your predictions are very optimistic'. The same assessment has been made by Parliament's Budget Office, noting that "the achievement of objectives with austerity and injustice is a very negative mixture". You're the ones! You don't chew. You have persecuted the head of the Office of Budgets and cleaned up. You know what, though? The Greek people don't chew pot anymore. And we're going to some elements of the 2018 budget. Tax even the air we breathe, coffee, beer, wine, accommodation. You're reducing the payroll discount due to the advance. Remove the discount of those who had medical evidence, like the welfare state, who has neither pillows nor sheets in public hospitals, can offer care. You're budgeting 1.8 billion extra revenues, all from taxation. You are talking about large-scale ESDP projects and no major project has begun. Of all the things you say that "we will submit dossiers", "we will feed growth", nothing has started because no project is yours. Everything's from the previous ESDP.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u5	Put a perfect one, Mrs. Kefalidou.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u6	At the same time, the 2018 budget is talking about a reduction in expenditure that is all social expenditure, about 2 billion. You're cutting P.S.A. to a hundred forty thousand rightholders. You reduce medical care to 350m euros. There is no end to the list, but you do not fall. ‘Greece is a comeback’.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u7	Your time is over, Mrs. Kefalidou.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u8	I'll be out in a minute, Mr. President. Thank you for your tolerance. Taxes everywhere! This is your financial recipe. And as much as we're talking about the Public Investment Programme, this is where everyone's bitter is laughing. There are no notices of new works, they put on fire, you haven't submitted anything to date. And like this, you are preparing for the next season in August 2018 when the program ends, the memorandum ends, and you are preparing for the clean exit. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I have heard a very nice phrase from Chehof. "The theatre should not show life as it is or should be, but as we dream it." But it speaks of the theater, not of the state's annual budget. You're confusing us.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u9	All right, go ahead, Mrs. Kefalidou.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u10	I am also responsible for culture, Mr President. Let me finish with something. Whatever we, ladies and gentlemen, say, you are convinced that this Parliament is a palcoshenic, that you successful theatres, we bishops and the Greek people are spectators of their tragedy. But know what you've got, whatever you've got, whatever you've got, you're gonna leave because the show's over. And for any chance, the exit is one of the offspring. Thank you very much for your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u11	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how to operate, forty-five students and three educational attendants from the Greek-German High School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Michelis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as a general rule, the budget items refer to figures, comparisons of these and estimates, in line with the opinion and, above all, to the objectives pursued. I'd say no miserable. However, it would be unfortunate to omit a reference to the specific conditions laid down in this budget. It would be unfortunate to omit a reference to the evolution of the above data over the past decades, but also to the apparent perspective. I shall try to make a brief comment on that. Does anyone doubt that the country was found in 2010 with an exorbitant debt and a constantly shrinking agricultural and industrial production? Responsibility of whom is that? Does anyone doubt that for decades, non-productive activities have been carried out by a growing new social group? Is the question that wage labour has gradually been pushed to the margin, with a gradual reduction in wages and an increase in unemployment from 7% to 27% in the year 2010-2015? Doubts that at the same time an economic elite would make its money abroad, while at the same time leading the country's political events through the New Democracy and PASOK? None of this is questionable. It's just trying to silence them or forget them. And here, who indirectly withdrew them, with a wider political interpretation, the rapporteur of the New Democracy. In particular, he referred to the post-government period, the efforts to correct the country by the founder of their prolongation and the continuing reactions of the Left, as he claims, to any reformal change. It did not mention, of course, which political party had previously denounced the country that the New Democracy undertook to make up for. In other words, he simply read and interpreted the historical path of post-multipleism, as Arabic writing is read. It is sometimes read by "SKAI", that is to say, reverse roles, as well as responsibilities, as if they did not govern the country interchange PASOK and New Democracy, and at the end, like both workers' struggles and any support from the Left, they brought the debt, the depreciation of production, unemployment, the memoranda. Ladies and gentlemen, we can discuss the current circumstances and the country's course for days. But there are third-party speakers. Obviously you know what the European factor, the international organisations, says. None of them disputes the above-mentioned data, but also the current data on positive economic indicators, gradual progression and improvement in the situation. You, for your part, because of the lack of a specific political strategy, therefore and a proposal, are engaged in daily disaster, assisted by your friendly media. You will allow me a general reference on this. For a number of years, decades, I would say, weakness and delay the right-wing party for a elementary urban modernisation of the country has sometimes brought the left into play. That is why your political deadlock as a right-wing party, and today's intense attack by the Communist Left that refuses this role. The examples are too much. Today's the Sharia. In Turkey it has been abolished since the 1920s and in our country it has been valid until now. You know that the bill submitted by the Ministry of Education will soon be abolished by law. I wonder, however, why so far? And a brief reference to social data. In our country, on the one hand, employed and unemployed are the vast majority of citizens. The budget, by appreciating today's difficult conditions, takes measures to support them. It opens up stable jobs in the public sector, seeks to reduce unemployment in every way. On the other hand, in our country, an economic elite is active with its money in foreign companies, with dubious productivity activities, with refusal to record their data, with tax evasion. Does New Democracy mean that it is a leading class for the development of the country? And then the rapporteur is concerned about class hatred? The result of the intensity of class contrasts is the so-called "class hatred" and not propaganda construction, as you want to be. Ladies and gentlemen, through difficulties, the three-year programme 2015-2018 is finalised. It is gradually planned to release the country from the strict comitology. There is gradually a socially just development in the country. Be sure the government will succeed. The majority of the Greek people, no matter how hard they are, do not forget the historical path of each of us and the present presence and action of the Greek people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u13	And we thank you, Mr. Michalis, for respect for time. Mr. Adonis Georgiadis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u14	Thank you very much, Mr President. And taking one - let's say this - a trend from the previous speaker on 'class hatred' to our rapporteur, who create class opposition, but because I want to respond to various SYRIZA Members who have made the honour of referring to me, Mr Manda, in my face and in the interview I had given for tax havens...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u15	Not me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u16	Not you, other colleagues. I say this because you're a secretary, a parliamentary representative, I don't remember. I would like to ask you a question, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, to see at last whether we can reach agreement in terms of truth or we should only have between us hypocrisy. We have Mr. Chakaloto. Mr. Tsakalotos is the Minister of Finance of Greece, who has declared the war against tax havens and in this House has also taught us a lesson, a lecture on the immorality of tax havens in modern capitalism. Listen, Mr. Tasula, you'll like it. It is Mr Tsakalotos himself, however, who, by reading his whereabouts, retains huge funds in agencies such as Morgan STANLEY, BLACK ROCK, and other huge financial institutions, whose main job is to move funds through tax havens and thus achieve high returns. In other words, Mr Tsakalotos, who states his absolute opposition to tax havens, is gaining on himself from these tax havens, while he is fighting them. Do you think that makes sense? And then it's your fault Georgiadis! He is the same Mr. Tsakalotos, who was here four, five years ago in front of the square of the indignant and cried for the destruction of the memorandum, for the legacy of the memorandum, for the fourth Reich and for the burdensome and shameful debt. He is the same Tsakalotus, who was charming yesterday, because he pressed the hammer on the New York Stock Exchange, while he declares a communist and fights - supposedly - global capitalism. But you're not getting caught, ladies and gentlemen, no-one! You're with everyone and everything at the same time! You fight the tax havens, but you put your money on "MORGAN STANLEY", blame the memorandum, but now you celebrate a budget, which for us we have read all the Memorandum budgets, I assure you is the toughest Memorandum Budget on the first day of George Papandreou's first Memorandum and has the greatest cuts. For example, I mention the cuts in the ESS. In this House, Alexis Tsipras as Head of opposition had climbed up and said, "I can't imagine which Members would dare ever vote for the abolition of the CSCE." Here are the Members who vote for the abolition of the CSCE! It's you! And you vote for the abolition of the CSCE with glory and honor and with pride, where the next best comes here. After you've been telling us for five years, until you've taken the power, that the memorials are not working and that they're not driving anywhere, so that you absolutely had to drop the government, because the memorials aren't working, you're coming to power and you say, "We've had to sign a Memorandum." In the first half of the year, Mr. Famelos tells us - I remember him shouting here - that "We have suffered the blackmail of lenders and what should we do? This is a programme which does not express us. But the programme that you do not express to you and which is supposed to be a product of extortion, now leads you to markets and celebrate its success. So, finally, the memorandum that you accused us of not coming here today and telling us how well it works and how great a success it brings, at the same time, having cut social benefits, having cut off the heating allowance, having cut the pensions, having increased taxes and done all the rest. And, of course, the debate on the budget has so far been set by two moments, two phrases. The first of your rapporteur, Mr Vetta, that taxes are few and need to be made more, but also from the phrase of Mr Mavragani that "It is okay if you have a reduced wage. It is better to have a reduced wage than to have no wages at all." That's what the Minister, Mr. Mavragans, told us. I remember when George Papandreou had about something like that, where he said there was a reduced payroll for the first years of work of young people, as an incentive for unemployment to fall - we older people in the House must remember at that time - was here the wing of SYRIZA, younger then, and screamed at the headquarters, how dare he say that thing about reduced payroll! [[Laughers from the wing of SYRIZA]] Don't laugh, Mr. Mada. Now Mavraanis, your Minister, is telling you, applauding underneath and saying how nice it is now to have reduced payroll, because it's better than having zero. And since we're talking about budget, I'll just say two more elements. The first is in terms of success. You know, it's interesting a conversation when it ends up somewhere. For example, last year in this House you told us about your previous budget that we would have 2.7% growth. Looks like we're going under 1.5 percent. You say 1.6%, others say 1.4%, we'll see. However, it's definitely not 2.7%. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. What would a serious parliamentary dialogue do? It would tell us why your last year's budget and your forecasts fell completely out and would now explain why your forecasts will be better this year. None of this happened. It's okay. You manage to fall out by 50% in your prediction of growth, but this is a great success and we go well. And as far as the failure of your predictions is concerned, because I see Mr Papadopoulos and Mr Manda - and with this I will close - I will only say one fact today to have one news item. Today you will see in all SYRIZA's friendly sites, ladies and gentlemen, that the Prime Minister is going to launch the first TOMY, the first local health unit, to Paul Mella in Thessaloniki. It's a great pleasure, isn't it? You take the health commissioner, they'll be fascinated there for the first TOMY. Questions now to Mr Manda and Mr Papadopoulos on health: Are you not the one who in April told us in the first presentation of the bill that by the end of the year we will have thirty-four TOMY? Good. And in September, Mr. Xanthos came here and said that "We had no two hundred and thirty-four units. We didn't make it. We didn't go well. We will have seventy by the end of the year." I've asked him a question with his statement underneath. Mr. Xanthos said here - Mr. Manda, you remember that by the end of the year we will have seventy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u17	On Friday, another one is inaugurated in Heraklion.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u18	It's December 13th, and you're making the first one, and I'll say you'll do the second one in Heraklion. Sixty-eight minus seventy-eight times outside. Is there anyone who will tell us why your predictions are so out there? You can tell us: 'Find children, we have no idea what happens to us'. That's an excuse. Or say to us: 'We have, but that's where we fell out.' You're not saying anything. Get out by sixty-eight times of your own predictions, open up, celebrate, nothing happens, we go fine, congratulate each other, cut off your pensions, increase your VAT, increase your taxes and condone how well you did it all. Warm congratulations.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u19	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended from the top Western theory, after taking part in the Educational Programme "Workery Democracy" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty students and students and two educational attendants from the 9th Municipal School of Vyron. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Socrates Famelos, Deputy Minister for the Environment and Energy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the 2018 budget is our country's first budget, which includes a period of off-programming. It is the first budget, which includes our country outside the memorials, which were installed and implemented in our country, because unfortunately our country was forced by bad governments to go bankrupt. Governments, involving Mr Georgiadis, Mr Mitsotakis, Mr Stagiras and many of my colleagues, I see here in the front. However, the 2018 budget must also be a stability budget, because it is laid down in a very large regime, in a large proportion by both the economic environment and the country's obligations. Are previous budgets considered very well by the previous governments on the same criteria? So the criteria of stability and progress? Unfortunately, no, ladies and gentlemen. The responsible President of the Eurogroup, Mr Diaselblum recently admitted to the European Parliament that the first programmes were improvised and mistakes were made. The main objective of the first programmes was not to save the country or to save the economy. It was the rescue of private investors outside Greece and the way they dealt with the banks was costly and ineffective. That is what the President of the Eurogroup told Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, things are simple and obvious. The previous governments, the "experiences", with the multiannual offer, which they have read the budgets, and have admitted that they did not read the bills, the governments of Papandreou, Papademos, Samaras - Venizelos allowed creditors to carry out experiments, make mistakes, save their own private banks, in a costly, ineffective way, to the detriment of Greek citizens. And you have allowed it, you have accepted it, and you have implemented it. This has now been accepted within the European Parliament. Gentlemen of counterpopulation, you didn't play monopolis, of course, you didn't read. You were improvising as Mrs. Kefalidou said before. You played with human lives, you played with the work of the Greeks, you played with the households, you played with the Greek children and you failed and you created bankruptcy in the country. You have not respected human life in Greece. You have not respected the vote of Greek citizens either. I file this in public. Your political responsibility for all the things Mr. Dieselblum said, because you allowed him to do all this, and now you are playing theatre and doing seminars of persuasion, because you are not convinced of the Greek people. This government, without experience, but with clear hands, looked at the lenders in the eyes, gave the country credibility, because three years it does what it promises citizens and lenders. We are constantly coming out on the markets, we are covering the country's objectives, we have restructured the debt, we have smoothed the repayment, we have reduced the yields of Greek bonds and now they are efficient. Don't go, Mr. Georgiadis. You'll hear more that you might not like. Sit down and take the floor of the staff. Even the Vice-President of the Commission, Mr Dombrovskis, who so much uses Mr Georgiadis and Mr Stagiras in Paris yesterday, said that before the end of the programme the debate on debt relief measures will be opened and at the same time, that the country's budgetary surplus has achieved it before the end of the year. We fought hard in the first half of 2015, not to implement your own program, which left empty funds, as you admitted, and in February 2015 you decided to blackmail the country without having any money for wages and pensions. We fought a great deal in order not to implement the Junker programme and led us to the referendum, because Samaras and Venizelos had decided with 4.5% to go completely bankrupt. We have earned 20 billion money from the surpluses we have negotiated. We have won late and extended payments of all loans, five years for the country. We have won over half the public property that was going to a fund, from Luxembourg's measures with the blessings of the New Democracy. Greece and the Greeks are very lucky that this government has undertaken to get us out of the program and get us out of the center of Europe, not at the fringes of Europe, as bad students in the fifth evaluation in December 2014, who were leaving as dazzled children from Eurogroup. Of course, Mr Mitsotakis had the medicine ready, as did Mr Samaras, Mr Tasoulos and all these, the Members of the New Democracy and their ministers. Reductions in wages, pension cuts, redundancies in both the public and private sectors, outsourcing public services for the benefit of ‘friends’, ‘kombares’. That was the reality of the country you ran. High commissions, high costs and unemployment for 30%. You're the one who sent it over to unemployment. This recipe, the Kyriaku recipe - forgive me, the Adoni recipe, because someone else is calling the shots in New Democracy - guaranteed the exit from the Eurozone. The deal in their own program was getting Greece out of the Eurozone. Our programme kept the country standing in the centre of the Eurozone as a political and economic point of reference both in the Eastern Mediterranean and in Europe. We are fundamentally implementing different policies and clarifying it both economically and morally, and this is the greatest ornament of our own government. I will give you two examples. Eight hundred million from the negotiation of the conventions on national roads have been won by this government. Yours was only frozen, as was the metro of Thessaloniki and all the great works. The projects were not implemented, they now ended, at a great cost to the public, eight hundred million gains from our own negotiation. Seven hundred 11 million were won by undeclared deposits. What does that mean? Does it mean that previous governments cared for tax evasion and transfer of deposits to offshore companies? You'll tell me now, what do you say? After offshore companies had themselves. It is obvious that they cared both their friends and their advisers and their families and partners. In other words, you have actually chosen the goodwill and profits of the work of the Greeks to come to offshore, not to generate income and not to be taxed. And that money is back now, SYRIZA. I ask very simply: why haven't they been back for so many years with you? However, these two amounts are the social dividend of 2017. These two amounts were made public projects, these two amounts became TOMY, these two amounts become children's stations and more than that government did. I, too, expect to hear such a measure that the governments have implemented over the past decade, apart from leaving Mr Diasbelblum to make mistakes and tests, at the expense of the work and life of the Greeks, because this has been tabled to the European Parliament and we have debated it very little in here. It is easy to throw mud, that is to say throw mud for the statements of Mr Tsakalotos. So let me tell Mr Georgiadis, because I have no problem answering it. Mr. Chakalotos worked on it and stated it. Why have you not said anything about the offshore missing from Mr Mitsotakis and Mrs Marvas Mitsotakis? Why didn't you take a position yet while it turned out in Paradise Papers that there was this offshore? Why have you not yet taken a stand on what has been proved and put on the real money, which they have worked and taxed, and are going back to Greece as well and offer to these Greek politicians, these Greek scientists at the place where they were born? Because that is what we are doing, this is how we create a crucial financial space to reduce tax burdens and where we can, we bring social measures earlier, because we brought family allowances increased from 57% to 110% for six hundred two thousand families in 2018, while it was for 2019. And despite the fact that we have an unfavourable financial environment, we have found a way in our policy to look at the citizen first, to have a social income of 720 million, to place emphasis on child poverty programmes, with about 315 million, to have a double social dividend for 2017, and we are very moved by Mr Georgiadis' interest in TOMY. I'm going to recommend to the Prime Minister that we give him free tickets to join him in the opening. We are very moved that he, who closed public structures and sold public hospitals and supplies, wants to come to the inauguration of the TOMY. We'll call him. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Of course, I don't know. Now I've seen some emails and some invitings for immoral seminars that Mr. Georgiadis is doing. She'll have time, because she cut out the teleshops, but she's doing seminars. Well, we'll give him the tickets so he can come with us. Of course, Mr President, I would like to say a few things about environmental issues. I'll just say one word. For too many years environmental policy has been on the sidelines and it has been a choice of governments. Our country was last in environmental legislation, first in environmental fines. We were paying fines for HSY - for the dangerouss - even for the drainage of East Attica. We pay fines for the capital's drainage. That's why you didn't even take care of it. All this reduces with this government, new climate laws, forest maps, recycling, for the circular economy. Even lowering the cost of firewood for the inhabitants of mountainous and disadvantaged regions we did to this government, because that was not even what you thought of doing for the people in the region, for the people who support the countryside and the countryside. At the same time, to know why the funding programmes are now starting to get too accelerated, it is because the previous government chose the flood risk management plans in 2012 to put them in the drawer while it was a European directive and not to end them. Now they have crocodile tears for Mandra - which, of course, we owe tribute to the people who have lost their lives there - and at the same time, because they have not done the water management plans, all the water, irrigation and sanitation projects, were in sectarianity, Mr Stakoura. You put them in heresy. And this government end 2017 will have water management FEKs throughout Greece and flood management plan, because that is how we really respond to what the Greek citizen needs. I must tell you that at least twenty-fifths of new projects to be completed in the first quarter of 2018 will continue a course that says everywhere in 2017: new recycling waste management projects, with public funding, with a profit for the citizen, at a low cost, with an increase in the absorption of the public investment programme and for the first time with a bill, which will cost the public budget to environmental protection bodies, workers to them. For the first time, the country will cost its budget nature. Until now, Mr Stavros, and as Minister of Finance, never gave 1 euro from the public budget for environmental protection and NATURA of the country, for this large chapter of tourism and development that our country has. This is the reality in Greece. I'm afraid so. Because here some people are doing seminars of persuasiveness from the Step of Parliament. And we're not ashamed! While we know how our country has arrived this far. However, even the revenues that will be directed at environmental investments are increasing with this government, because we have very simply chosen, in cooperation with the plastic companies, to limit the use of plastic bags and to have revenues on recycling and reuse of materials in the Ministry of the Environment. It is also a sign of how we can, in cooperation with the private sector, increase work, create environmental resources. Of course, I just need to say that after forty years of delay the forest maps will give our country the opportunity to have clear rules in the countryside, to know where investments are being made, because we want investments. We want investments in the primary sector, we want rural development. We don't want the Athenian state. And we prove that by giving tools. Because how will you prevent flooding if you don't know where the forest map is and what the land uses are in the countryside? However, these were not in the past, ladies and gentlemen. In conclusion, I have to say that we need to talk about new policies. Yesterday's session in Paris has shown that we have been far behind climate issues. We need this parameter for a new future worthy of young people and young people - which will be there - to take very fast steps. The slogan that prevailed yesterday at a summit of twenty states was that there is no plan B for the planet, there is no other planet. These policies must be integrated into productive reconstruction and placed at the top of our policy, as we have been doing in recent years. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, we are now in a revival orbit, not only of the economy but of the environment. We are now creating tools that, after years of inertia and indifference, give a new sign to growth, that of environmental sustainability. We are now taking part in a global debate recognizing internationally the objectives for sustainable development that include both unemployment, poverty, access to education, access to welfare. These are our goods. These link at the same time the fight against poverty, progress and productive reconstruction. We are developing environmental cooperation and we are strengthening environmental diplomacy, making our country a major interlocutor in the Eastern Mediterranean. We are turning environmental protection into an obligation - which they have never respected - on a development opportunity respecting the country's special identity and heritage, ending arbitraryness, doing a basic duty: serving work. That's what this budget does. It serves the work in Greece, the most important asset of our progress. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u21	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u22	Mr. Georgiadis, I'll give you the floor for a minute and...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u23	Why, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u24	If Mr Georgiadis talks, I too would ask for the floor on staff. Please! If Mr Georgiadis talks, I would also like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u25	I would like to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u26	But I've taken the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u27	Wait a minute, let me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u28	Didn't you give me the floor for just a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u29	Mr. President, Emmanoulidis, you said?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u30	Mr Manda, I say this: one minute to Mr Georgiadis and one minute to the Minister. And finally, any ping pong...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u31	Mr Mandas has asked for a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u32	Let it go. You don't have to. I can do it, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u33	I don't understand why all this fuss is happening. The Minister made the honour of referring to my professional activities seven times. Ladies and gentlemen, I imagine you have read the Rules of Procedure. If it is not personal, not to criticise a Member of Parliament, but to mention seven times in any professional activity, then, please, I would like you to tell me what is personal. I was gone, as you remember...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u34	Did he get to you?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u35	Of course he did. I'm really excited, Mr. Balaura.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u36	You want to say something else, Mr. Georgiadis, why is it ending the minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u37	Minister, I saw the courage with which you defended the statements at the 'MORGAN STANLEY' and the 'BLACK ROCK' of the Minister of Finance. And you have linked this to my legal, taxed in Greece professional activities of the rhetorical seminar, to which you are invited. It'll do you good. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Why? Because you find no strange behaviour in the fact that the Minister of Finance, who is supposed to go all over the planet and wants to convince investors to bring their money to Greece and trust the Greek economy, has his money abroad.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u38	Is that the staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u39	You don't find that strange at all. You find it very reasonable.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u40	There's no staff, Mr. Georgiadis. Time's up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u41	And you said, too, that New Democracy and Kyriakos Mitsotakis would take Greece out of the euro.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u42	There's no staff. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u43	Mr President, I'll be out in a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u44	Please very much. There's no staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u45	Listen, Mr. President. Let Mr. Famelos answer to the retired people who are cut off by the CSCE because they are cut off by the CSCE and let me leave my own rhetoric scripts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u46	There's no staff. Minister, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u47	I obviously also want the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u48	Mr. Stavura...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u49	No, I'm a parliamentary representative. You don't understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u50	Me, too. There's no way this thing you're doing. We'll talk. It's over!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u51	Clearly we'll talk!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u52	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u53	Mr President, I was very clear about Mr Georgiadis and all the members of the New Democracy and PASOK who participated in the Samara - Venizelos government because it affects my country, the President of the Eurogroup, to admit that they made mistakes in the first programmes and, with the agreement of the Greek Government, to the detriment of Greek workers, to the detriment of the Greek taxpayers, at the expense of my country. Clearly and I intend to touch on all those who have participated in the policy that has bankrupt the country. And I will not stop saying it to the Greek Parliament, I will not stop saying it to Greek society. That's where they have to apologize! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And in my position on the statements made by Mr Tsakalotou or other government officials, I said very simply: 'They worked and declared them'. Tell me why the offshore company of Mr. Mitsotakis and Mrs. Marva hasn't been declared. That is why you have not dared to take a stand, and that is why I personally touch you, Mr Georgiadis!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u54	Mr Dimitris Emmanoulidis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u55	I want the floor on personal grounds, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u56	Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u57	This is where we are personally affected. I'm not going to answer that?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u58	Mr President, you repeat a distinction that you have in your tactics.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u59	What distinction?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u60	Mr President, I too have asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u61	Mr. Stavura, wait a minute. You are a parliamentary representative. You will exercise our right whenever it is considered appropriate.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u62	So do I, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u63	I asked him now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u64	Mr Emmanuelides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u65	Mr President, I want the floor. What does "appropriate moment" mean?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u66	Mr President, this is where he wanted to offend the New Democracy and he will not answer it?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u67	Diaselblum offended her, not me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u68	Please, Mr Emmanuelides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u69	Mr President, when are we going to talk? I'm a parliamentarian and I have a right.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u70	Please, Mr Emmanoulidis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u71	I had prepared a speech plan, but I must admit that it was cancelled by the two previous positions.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u72	Let my colleague leave.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u73	And he's leaving with a taratajum! Well, on the one hand we had Mr. Adonidus's word. It was a delusional reason, Mr. Adonai, not responding to the demands of society.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u74	I would ask speakers not to give personal tone in the speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u75	Let me, Mr President, organise the thought and the reason as I judge. I say, therefore, that the lessons of persuasion, which Mr Adonis has earned with great success, presupposes the style of the speaker. That's what we said. In a moment, then, he said: "The SYRIZA people screamed in the squares." If we had a decibelometer here, they'd crack the crystals off the intensity of your voice.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u76	You didn't say that, though?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u77	Yeah, but you're defending the world's worldly speech by the collapse of...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u78	For inconsistencies, tell us. For the C.E.D. you yelled at.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u79	I would say - to get over it - that from a political point of view, God must have strong both Mitsotakis and Adoni.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u80	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u81	For as long as you are at the wheel, it is certain that SYRIZA will prepare and vote for the budgets in this House for many years. And that's because the people have memory and judgment. And this memory and judgment of the people in an exemplary way, I would say, in relation to time, but also with the depth and width of analysis, was tabled just before the Minister. Your works and days were captured within a five-minute period by the Minister. It was restored every effort to start political life from 2015 for you. No, gentlemen! There are many decades ago, and they have led us to the need for a memorandum that you have brought in, to bring it to fruition and to deliver a people of the millions of suffering you have loaded on him. And you didn't charge them for ignorance, you didn't charge them out of negligence. You loaded them out of a targeted policy. What was politics? The previous speaker told us that all the people were poorly treated. Indeed, the Zamblus in Greece are poor, because the whole profit is parked in offshore and banks abroad. So I come to say that this budget has a specific target and it is a social contract, or rather - I would say - the conclusion of a social contract, which in less than a year, always within a tight policy, leaves the government with budgetary and political and social areas precisely what it has previously committed itself and promised. And what are these? Into a world-famousness manage to maintain social cohesion. And not only that, but to create those conditions, clean and cleaner, in an effort to rebuild production and in the primary sector and in small businesses and where there is an economic activity. We, ladies and gentlemen, have a deep relationship with society. We may have injured her, but this injury was just to save society, because and difficult operations are also taking place in difficult medical interventions, but our aim was to keep it up. Looking at society, we can say that from now on, every day dawns is humaner than the previous one, because we do not have the political barbarisms that you have been with all the previous years. As I see, in fact, a representative of PASOK and the Democratic Reconciliation, as far as the Change Movement is concerned, I see twice as much VAT. Changing names and resorting to double and three-fold VAT indicates something in everyday life practice. In fact, it is interesting because while it is absolved from the past - unfailing past - it comes from the other and takes two ingredients, a movement to suggest the old PASOK, as well as a change. The first message he gave to society is his attempt by a small party to rule for decades.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u82	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u83	Such terminology does not go any further than politics. Politics wants a clear look, a clear reason and, above all, a clear objective. We put this through a budget that, once again, concerns me, is the last memorial and that it is deeply redistributive with a single project, the preservation of social cohesion and the creation of conditions of economic and social reconstruction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u84	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u85	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u86	Oh, no. There's no staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u87	There's personalities, Mr. President. It can't be right now...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u88	Listen to me. There's no staff. After two - three...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u89	He's lying on purpose! He's scared of history, and he's lying.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u90	Allow me. Will you listen to me?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u91	He's lying! Liars!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u92	If you don't listen to me, that's fine. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, fifty-seven students and students and five educational sessions from the 3rd High Thevas. The House welcomes them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u93	Mr President, the request I made to you as a parliamentary representative is pending.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u94	Mr. Barbarousis has the floor since the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u95	Thank you. [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] The State Budget for 2018 will mark the country's exit from a long period of macroeconomic adjustment programmes. This refers to the Ministry of Finance's introductory note to Parliament. You are forgetting, however, gentlemen, that eleven voted measures are triggered by the 2018 budget, which will bring new burdens to millions of taxpayers. From 1-1-2018, the following will enter into force: The cut in the EKT which at the end of 2019 will be definitively abolished, the increase in insurance contributions to the professions, the adjustment of the objective property values, the abolition of the 1.5% discount in the monthly withholding tax on employees and pensioners, the changes in the multi-centre allowance, the abolition of the tax deduction on medical expenses, the increase in tax rates in thirty two islands, the reduction of the heating allowance by 50%, the tax on income from the rental via airbnb, the easier loss of the regulation of the hundred instalments, the tax on accommodation in hotels and rooms. These are the measures that will in theory help to economic recovery, ignoring the fact that they will further impoverish the Greek citizen. You are talking about economic recovery and yet again, all Greek citizens - employees, pensioners, free traders, farmers, businesses - are being called back. But how is that going to happen? How are they gonna put their backs on? Do you think by giving the social dividend, you lighten the Greek citizen? Apparently, the foreigners were also lightening up the Roma, from whom you are not going to get a franc. The budget to be voted for the year 2018 relates to Greece's coming annual economic activity, a country that has been literally and substantially bankrupt and which does not have the necessary means and tools to hope for recovery, means and tools such as that of primary production. The primary production of all of you have turned it into a planting sector, an area that bleeds and is not an estimated size of our national economy. You yourself admit that GDP remains all these years in a marginal recession or is maintained at about the same level, while the debt is giggling, respectively. And what do you do about it? What do you do for the farmer, who every day gives his battle with all the unstable factors? You are hurting him once again by changing the method of calculating its insurance contributions. The income will no longer be deducted from the insurance contributions paid, but for the imposition of the premiums to the ECA will be taken into account at 85% of the income and there will be a small deduction of 15%. There is no provision for incentives for young farmers and the return of young people to the fields, for the development of livestock farming or for the strengthening of fisheries. You have not foreseen any measures in the budget to support activities directly related to agricultural and livestock production. There is nowhere any care to support rural research or to develop supplies and services or even to tax relief for specific production activities. Your aim was and will be the complete disappearance of the primary sector. And this is seen by your actions! More rightly, your goal is to extinct the Greeks and replace them with illegal immigrants. And that seems clear, as you are only really interested in them. Of course, that makes sense, since you're from them. On the one hand, we have the money that the loan sharks of the European Union are sending to our former Minister of the NGO and now Commissioner for Migration Policy, Dimitris Avramopoulos, and on the other hand the various predators of the government and their best friends who are sloppy waiting for them to fill their pockets with money through the NGOs that have set up. Of course, in this huge business called the "lashmigrant" you also help your friend, the sultan Erdogan, who sends the merchandise you brought us a few days ago and here. And all right, it's your friend, it's part of your job. What, though, did you have to force the Euzoons to pay attention to him and to make him present and - the worst of all - take him and enchant the sacred space of the unknown soldier? Well, this Greece, that is, the Greece of the tachographs, the memorials and the Islamics, must be destroyed, because it is not Greece for which our ancestors have spilled so much blood. As Golden Dawn we will do what goes through our hand, so that we do not allow this Greece to become our country of our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u96	Mr. Christos Stakoras for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u97	Mr President, first of all you did not give me the floor previously, which I asked for as a Parliamentary representative of the New Democracy. And I informed the Minister that in my speech I would mention his position, which I am forced to do now, while he has left. On the substance, I will not assess the contents of the Minister's speech, because he has said two top-level expressions which highlight and demonstrate and condense the content of it. He said the government does what it promises the citizens and that the New Democracy would get out of the euro. And only these two expressions show the credibility of the contents of the Minister's speech. There's no need to comment. Science raises hands up. But I'll stay in two places. Referred at the end of 2014. I will not speak by abstraction, but by evidence that I shall submit to the House. I present the 2014 ESM report on how the state of the economy was stabilised. I present the report of the European Commission of 2014 and present the interview of the Vice-President of the Commission, Mr. Katinen, who said in March 2015: 'Greece would come out of the Programme. Now, unfortunately, things have changed. It is very sad that the world suffered, suffered enormous sacrifices and things went better." That's it for 2014. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Stagiras, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The Minister referred to the measures taken by the previous government - the second memorandum - presenting an excellent situation for the third memorandum. I therefore present in the Minutes the 2016 government budget and the distribution of the measures per Memorandum. Ladies and gentlemen, I regret to say that the third bill, the third memorandum, was more burdensome and heavier than the second memorandum. I put this in the Minutes too. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Stagiras, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Finally, because the Minister referred to the current state of the economy, I will table a series of tables, and if you wish, disprove them. In the third quarter of 2017, the economy has not yet reached the third quarter of 2014. Based on the Ministry of Finance, 32 billion euros of wealth have been lost this three-year period. On the basis of the report by the International Monetary Fund, the sustainability of the debt has been heavily burdened over the last three years. Based on the European Commission's figures, the economic climate has not yet reached where it was at the end of 2014. On the basis of the OECD report, the degree of implementation of structural changes in Greece has fallen by thirty percentage points over the last two years compared to the period 2013-2014. On the basis of the OECD competitiveness index, the economy declines. The competitiveness of the Greek economy continues to decline. Based on the economic climate index, the situation in the economy is worse than in 2014. Based on the overdue debts of individuals, these have exceeded EUR 100 billion. Based on their late public debts to the private sector, they still remain 14% more than the end of 2014. The deposits, which left massively in 2015, have not been returned to the banking system. [[At this point the Member, Mr Christos Stagiras, presents for the minutes the tables mentioned above, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] As we have said before, you have received the economy on the first floor, you have thrown it into the basement and celebrated that you are trying to bring it to the ground floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u98	Mr. Socrates Vardakis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Stavura, I don't know when you were telling the truth. In 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014 or today? And because we're talking about truths, it's a pity that Mr. Georgiadis left, because I'm going to be tempted to refer to his name. I would like him to explain what he said before, that we must finally agree on the basis of truth. Science really raises your hands up here! Ladies and gentlemen, the first foundations for fiscal stability came in with the 2016 budget, with which the beginning was to break the vicious cycle of recession. The 2017 budget has come to consolidate fiscal equilibrium and stability to restore confidence in domestic and international markets. Let me remind you that the primary surplus stood at 0.5% in 2015, 4.2% in 2016, more than eight times the target set in 2016 for a primary surplus of 0.5% of GDP. In the same year, the overall budgetary effect of the general government reached a surplus of 0.7%. Therefore, this budgetary progress has led to the country coming out of the excessive deficit procedure, which was subject to derailment of the budget deficit - that is the truth, Mr Stagira - to 15.1% of GDP in 2009. Ladies and gentlemen, the deficits of the Greek economy have been created by your term of office. They caused significant social and economic disturbances, which were particularly unfavourable to the labour market, with the employment rate falling by 4.6% in annual averages between 2010 and 2013 and the unemployment rate of course getting worse by 15.8%. You have once again made poor and disastrous forecasts in recent times, and fortunately you have fallen out. Perhaps it was the last plan of the propaganda policy you have done. In 2015, two months after the election, you asked for elections and said that SYRIZA destroyed the country in two months. You say the same in 2017. Today we can say that after a long period of economic and social challenges the Greek economy enters a path of stability and positive growth. Our political differences, ladies and gentlemen, are many. The 2018 budget has as a starting point the 2017 budget, which found, despite very difficult circumstances, the budget space to return to the world of 720 million as a social dividend, about 315 million, concerning the illegally withheld pensioners' health contributions, and another 360 million to cover the cost of services of general interest. Our government has a social person, with the aim of alleviating and helping in vulnerable strata. The necessary financial adjustment for the years 2015-2018 has been accompanied by the gradual strengthening of the protection of financial vulnerable layers by the full development of tools such as the ERIC, as well as social policy interventions in the critical area of dealing with child poverty. Contrary to what is written and said for pre-benefit cuts, the 2018 budget provides for payments rather than cuts. Ladies and gentlemen, both this budget that we are bringing for the vote and our other contributions over the last three years of our administration are proof that we are trying to overthrow the policies that you have implemented at all levels and which have really impoverished the Greek people. Ladies and gentlemen, I honestly do not know whether you believe what you are saying from this Step these days, because if it is not in the plan, as I said before, of the propaganda policy that you have been going through lately, you really need special treatment. You spoke about social protection, about loan deficits, about deficits in insurance funds, about unemployment, about black employment, about alternative forms of employment, about wages and pensions, about poverty and poverty. I'm not going to answer that. You have already been answered today by your own officials who were somewhere else yesterday. They are first-class executives such as Ms. Bakoyannis and Mr. Aygeakis. What they told you at the time, they said about you, because you were government, when they were somewhere else, reflect the image, reality, who, who plundered this country, and you are leaving us today, trying to put a 'little' of reconstructing and restoring the dignity of a people that you have broken up, you have devastated. So what did they tell you then? "On the one hand we have a bankrupt country." Listen, it's Mrs. Bakoyannis' words. It's worth listening to. "A society victim to an unprecedented tax policy that has no limits. Charms that don't end. A country where citizens day after day become poorer. Hunger is growing with geometric progress. People who don't have to eat. Children who faint in schools." Listen. "The most skeptical is persuaded to observe what is happening with the dumpsters and the remains of the people's markets, the agglomerations of the parishes. A society that doesn't believe and hope nothing. You have again reduced wages and pensions and dissolved every family budget. The parties became state-owned and evolved into factors of a state-owned system." That's what Mrs Bakoyannis and Mr. Augenakis were saying to you, ladies and gentlemen. And you come here today to tell us that we have destroyed the country. Read these. Take the Minutes of Parliament and read them, if you can at last consider your responsibilities, do not change tactics, to save this place, if we can, all together. Because we all have to do it together. You left these locusts and these ashes. And I do not remind you to apologise, I have told you another time, but to consider, as I said before, your responsibilities for once and to contribute to our efforts to rebuild this place, which you have really broken up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u100	Mr. Conkogeor from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u101	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, before I begin my speech, I would like to comment on the speech made by the Deputy Minister for the Environment, Mr Famelou, who is certainly missing from the Chamber at the moment, probably another job. However, I cannot stand to comment on the tone of his voice, but also on how many times the finger has moved to all colleagues in this Chamber. It reminded me of a regional courthouse and a court commissioner. So we say to him that, first of all, no one is afraid in this Chamber and, secondly, the excess of the audacity goes beyond its political stature. It came here and in his speech - twelve and a half minutes I counted, Mr President - the twelve minutes went to swearing the Vice-Population colleagues. And instead of coming to apologise for his ministry's policies all this time, he spent only twenty-eight seconds in the environmental case. That's what he says. Ladies and gentlemen, the 2018 budget under discussion is unfortunately another fraudulent and unfair budget, the most neoliberal, in practice, Government of SYRIZANEL. In particular, the combination of austerity and injustice reduces the small chances of success of an adaptation programme. "The mixture of excessive austerity, high surpluses on the target, influence the low growth in any case," notes in his report the Parliament's Budget Office. In any case, when compared to the pace of growth of the European economy, recovery is characterised as anemic, as overtaxation reduces incomes and reduces consumption. The fact that the government's tax measures and the cuts in social costs and benefits have been introduced in a previous year does not in any way reduce the impact on society and particularly on the weak. The claim by the Members of the government that the budget under discussion does not include any new measures is not a small child convinced. Fellow Members of the majority, are or aren't new measures new wage cuts for a hundred and fifty thousand of our fellow citizens? The new cuts in CSR amounting to 234 million for a hundred thousand pensioners? The abolition of 10% of the tax on medical expenses, amounting to about EUR 121 million? The abolition of the allowance for unprotected children, the unemployment benefit for new entrants on the labour market, the poverty and natural disasters to beneficiaries of the social solidarity allowance of approximately EUR 12 million? The continued reduction of the heating allowance by EUR 47 million, bringing thousands of households to despair as well? The increase in VAT rates on thirty two islands of the territory? Is the increase in the contribution for freelance professionals, the insurance contribution calculated on gross earnings of around EUR 53 million? Withdrawal of the 1.5% discount on the one-off payment of the tax for three million employees and pensioners? The imposition of taxes on occasional and short-term rental houses based on the tax scale of the rents? The reduction of health expenditure by about EUR 300 million? Enforcement of a residence tax on hotels and rental rooms and apartments from 1,5 to 4 euros per day? The imposition of a 15% goodwill tax on the real estate market, which is also a charismatic shot at the industry? The simulation of the solidarity contribution? If all of this is not new measures, ladies and gentlemen, what is it? Ladies and gentlemen, this is the grim reality that the Greek citizen has to experience and in 2018. This and worse is the reality in the country's periphery. In my own country of Evrytania, the great Evrytania of my colleague Mr Balaura, unemployment is scoring with geometric progress, leading to poverty and more and more of my fellow citizens. Primary health care collapses, while the relevant Minister deals with all other health issues. And so that I don't completely blame him on Saint Nicholas's day, after two and a half years he went to the Agraphs area. And he's a military doctor. [[At this point, the Honourable Member's speech bell is ringing.]] Mr President, invoking our common origin, I ask for your understanding for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u102	You got it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u103	You already have it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u104	Keep going, don't waste time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u105	The Roman Minister of Education - my respect for the institution - does not allow me to describe him as otherwise - considers that they are children of shipowners and industrialists, denying school meals in all the schools of Eurydice. The same Minister with outrageous indifference overlooks the right of Evritania children with special skills for parallel support in their education. Social welfare structures are squeezing away from their incompetent administrations. Households are narrowing, remaining frozen by the actual abolition of the heating allowance. The few companies that continue to operate are unable to cope with heavy taxation. The small activity observed in the construction of local infrastructure is due to the first and second level local selfgovernment and to the European funds it employs, since the current government is known to cut its institutional resources every year. The large infrastructure projects have been forgotten or short-circuited in the government docks, such as the Lamia bypass, the Lamia-Karpenisi national road, the Agrinio-Karpenisi national road, the connection with Karditsa with the border road, the last section of Mavromata - Neraida. Insecurity for the future has dominated the whole of society, while monumentality remains the irresponsibility of government actors. This miserable situation, experienced by the citizens of Eurydice, will be for sure by the government that they will return it soon. Ladies and gentlemen, before I arrive at the Step, I would like to express my support for the people affected by our recent flooding in Mandra and in Nea Permos, in Aetolokarna and in Epirus, who have cost us so expensively in human lives and in destruction of property and infrastructure. At the same time, by listing the natural disasters and their density that have occurred in our country over the last three years, I do not want to believe that what is a confidence in the majority of our people, that the current government and the Prime Minister, apart from having completely disproved all of their expectations with demagogues and lies and that they are unable to deal effectively with such phenomena, are also black cats of jigsaw and bad luck. As also, I do not believe the saying of the former Civil Protection Minister for 'the Left', because anyone can now see the Left of destruction and misery. But the moment of truth is coming and the people's crisis will be irreversible, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u106	Come on, Mr. Conglomerate! We took off the political thought! Please, finish it!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u107	Finally, I declare that I am voting against the budget, which is the last of the current government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u108	Thank you. Mr Christos Mantas, SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u109	Mr President, I will take the floor for two minutes. Firstly, in Mr Adonnis Georgiadis' political vulgarity, we are not going to get carried away. The Minister for Finance, who is absent from the Chamber and is on a mission in America, as Mr Georgiadis well knows, has responded three times to this misery, which Mr Georgiadis reiterates. But we will not get carried away with this kind of controversy. Secondly, there are two important things which have been said in Mr Stakoura's speech and I would like to highlight them. The first is that, for the first time, Mr Stavros submitted in his speech that the government of SYRIZA cost the Greek economy not 100 billion. Mr Stavrou said today about 30 billion. Slowly and slowly, Mr Stavros and the New Democracy will understand that the myth for the cost of SYRIZA governance 100 billion, which they are constantly repeating and constantly repeating, is a myth that has no real basis and will gradually admit that all this idea, which they have built, is not a constant one. The next thing I want to say, Mr President, is Mr Stakoura's reference to the International Monetary Fund report, which hides one detail. Do you know what this detail is? The fact that any approach is made is based on another piece of the International Monetary Fund report and that the assumptions are made. Do you know what assumptions these assessments have made? With primary surpluses of over 4%. Is that what New Democracy and Mr. Stakoras want, do we have this? So let them think about this and make political confrontation on the real elements. We'll have a chance to do it in the next period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u110	Thank you, too. Mr. Nikos Moraitis has the floor from the JRC.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u111	Thank you, Mr President. The 2018 budget is another deeply anti-grassed, class budget. It loads new weights on the backs of the working class of the wide populaces of towns and countryside. The SYRIZA - ANEL co-government in its favorite tactics, present the black white, characterizes it as a budget for development, that it will bring relief to popular incomes. But you are actually squeezing workers, self-employed people, poor medium-sized farms, pensioners, so that you can give them a handsome hand in big capital, large businesses, monopolies, either in the form of subsidies through programmes or tax exemptions in the name of capitalist development. However, all this on the ruins of labour rights, on the depreciation of labour power. The budget shall reflect the continuation of the measures referred to in the third Memorandum. In this budget too, the attack on the incomes of the poor, medium-sized farms continues. The rapporteur's report clearly illustrates the orientation, the targeting of government policy in the agricultural sector. It shall respectfully implement the euro-Union rules and promote the objectives of the common agricultural policy. You are increasing farmers' tax through the ENPIA. Their extension to the fields outside the project in rural facilities, which was to be implemented since 2017, agreed with the Government with its partners to apply in 2018. This measure will bear a burden of EUR 200 million. But you're diligently hiding that. It does not appear in the budget because it is lost within the total amount of HISPIA. The tax burden on farmers continues with unsatisfactory tension. In particular, you are breaking down the small incomes of non-private farmers, those who your own policy and the previous ones, the New Democracy and the PASOK, have been blocking off and are now trying to survive either through small crops or through dirt where they find themselves. They don't have tax free. They are taxed from the first euro. Your goal is to send them out an hour beforehand to gather land and production into a few hands. The poor, medium-sized farmers must draw conclusions here that their struggles for forty-nights on the roads have earned the tax. They must see clearly that only with their struggle can they overthrow this barbaric policy. Taxation is increased in the 2018 budget and particularly affects farms. You keep the tax on wine, even though you have told all tons, and in particular the Minister for Rural Development that it will be abolished, you keep it. It is a double blow both to popular consumption and to producers, who are also unable to compete with the cheapest imported wines. Here's who your policy is. In 2018 we will have new increases in farmers' insurance contributions from 14% to 16%. It will be a further charge, because income from last year's insurance contributions will be added to the insurance fund. For years now, you and the previous ones have been advertising the various programmes, such as the programme for young farmers and that they will contribute to the ageing of the rural population. The results of the excitement to young farmers are revealing. "Sold the algae for silk ribbon" and get the results. From this program that you advertise the data of those insured in the primary sector within the first half of 2016 is clear. Less than twenty-five years ago, it is only 0.61% of the main-professional farmers, while the most famous Rural Development Programme in fact is free of hot money in large capitalist enterprises, which will be fruitful, while poor medium-sized farmers if they take, will get crumbs. In addition, there are serious issues with regard to the Rural Development Programme in other areas, where, for example, in order to integrate a poor, medium-sized farmer, a great deal of involvement is needed, if some do so, today they are indebted and the truce of their banks is tightened every day. This is objective in today's development path, on the capitalist path that is won. But there are also the losers, who are the poor, medium-sized farmers who are sacrificed for the profits of monopolies. The same prevails in other sectors, such as fisheries, where the lion's share is given to large capitalist enterprises in the fish farms, where three monopolistic groups run the risk. Even worse is the situation in the forestry sector. Complete abandonment. You deliver them to the mountains of Western interests for energy investments and other sectors. Only give 1 of the Gross National Product for the Forests. It's a premeditated crime. Not only do you protect forests, but you are actually arming the hand of arsonists, trespassers with the known results, floods and disasters. Especially the ELGA you have turned him into a tax collector, tax-spring mechanism, and you are characterizing the farm. You are glad to see that you have a reserve from the farmers' sweat enough millions, close to 60. Of course, for years you have not even given EUR 1 from the state budget, even though you had an obligation. Although you have carved the farmers, you do not compensate those affected either in time or even in fair terms. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, just a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u112	Please, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u113	You have interest that touches 1,800,000 euros. It is exactly what you have given PASPEGIES and, obviously, you are also about to give the new PASPEGES for the services it offers, undermining the struggles of the poor-meeting farm, most of all, but it is that it serves your policy. You have the courage to baptize all these programmes in the agricultural sector "fair growth", and to say that they will give impetus, they will be a pillar of the development of primary production. That is why in your regional conferences that run out of mockery, you tell farmers that they can become entrepreneurs, compete with the large capitalist businesses that operate in the field of agriculture. You tell them that there is your "human capitalism" and that all workers, farmers, self-employed and monopolies may win. That is why you do not have time to congratulate your partners in the European Union from the Greek Industrial Association. You are doing your dirty work very well, you are putting the other urban parties in a difficult position, especially the New Democracy, because you are using anti-grassroots policy with fewer vibrations on behalf of big capital. Your confrontation, which has also happened here today, but it is also happening throughout the budget debate, is for the eyes of the world. You want to hide your strategic partnership. Finally, we say clearly to small and medium-sized farmers that there is a solution to the major problems. The solution is to the proposal of the Communist Party of Greece for a different socio-economic organization from labour power, to the great production that will exploit the country's enormous production potential, with a central combination, with a nationwide distribution network of goods and products. In this context, the needs of bio-family farmers, farmers and fishermen can also be found through the development of the respective network of productive agricultural cooperatives through the central design. Only in this way will they have access to high-level education, health, culture and rest. Only then will poor medium-sized producers be rid of their suffering and their needs not be crushed in the domination of monopolies.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u114	Mrs Christophilopoulou has the floor from the Democratic Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u115	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, by listening a moment ago to Minister Famello accuse the previous governments of allegedly remembranceing memorials serving the banks and private investment, I was immediately thinking of three things. The first thing that came to my mind was the inappropriate destructive third recapitalisation of the Greek banks, which, unfortunately, was accompanied by their resentment with foreign management councils and for which political responsibilities would be attributed to subsequent elections, but criminal responsibilities, ladies and gentlemen of the government, will remain. The second thing I remembered right away when I heard Mr. Fammello is Mr. Tsipras. Two days ago, a kneeling - look, I say a kneeling, not four, as your extreme right partner, Mr. Kammenos, chose to say - Mr. Tsipras begged, begged the foreign investors, "Come for great profits". And thirdly, I remembered Mr Stathakis, who dared not, but shuddered to bring about an improvement in the auctioning of the first place, despite the fact that fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, have invited him, such as Mr Friend, who is in this Chamber, but also other colleagues from SYRIZA. These three things came to me. And the word is one: Absolutely! I now come to the budget on the substance. Because, ladies and gentlemen, the economic sizes, the comparison of last year's government forecasts with their disguise today, but also the individual anti-grassroots measures that you deliberately hide and do not present, show two things: first, the way out of the memorandum is neither safe nor sustainable. It will unfortunately prove to be another utopia for the country. Secondly, that the government, in addition to the erosion of institutions - such as judiciary, media, anything that can affect democracy and create their status - has long chosen to systematically affect the middle-frame, to harm and to impoverish the middle-class, as the current budget, as well as the previous one, shows. And I start with the big victim of 2017. The big victim of 2017 is the social budget, from which your Government has saved on a cash basis not more than EUR 2.38 billion. So the surplus has been saved and not as Mr Famellos said, supposedly since the fight against tax evasion. How did the social budget save the general government budget? Of course, with delays in pension returns - Mr Petropoulos is here and he listens to us - with delays in the payments of late payments of public hospitals' public hospitals and cuts in pensions and social benefits. The medium-term list, which you have voted on, you have not put it into the budget - I understand why - with main victims, specialist victims, low pensioners who do the CSR and, of course, the widows, the disabled and many others. They know those who are and work in the institutions of chronic illness and in the prosperous institutions, how they squeeze from the shortcomings this year. To have the social dividend there have been huge holes in these institutions. I am now going back to the medium-term, where you are talking about themselves, and now I am talking about unemployment. I read: 'The insurance system remains a deficit, due to the increase in unemployment and the rapid decline in wages.' I refer to page 89 of the medium term. What, then, is the truth about the famous government account, that unemployment has declined even marginally? The damping of wages - you said it - and the launching of flexible forms of employment. 54.67% of new recruitments on the labour market this year involve flexible work with poverty and at the same time that workers and the unemployed are in suffocation, you are working night-time scripts for cutting rights, such as the strike. You bring them overnight with amendments, and then you try to bring them back. You have, of course, a worthy partner, the New Democracy. You're probably going and running. [[Laughers from the wing of SYRIZA]] Don't laugh at all. Put your hands on a lot. In fact, you are implementing Siomple politicians with other phrases. So I come to health now very soon. Ladies and gentlemen, today the Prime Minister launches the TOMY. At the same time, however, the permanent staff of hospitals have been reduced by seven thousand. Newspapers are done without basic specialist specialties. Every clinic has now left a nurse for forty patients on the shift. Subsidiary staff shall be unpaid. Drugs are missing, especially chemotherapeutic agents. The materials are missing and not just the sheets. But let us see what it holds us in 2018 on the basis of budget figures. Six hundred million euros less for the Ministry of Health. Less funding for hospitals and EEAS. Operation of the EEA at just 100 million. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I too have your tolerance, like the previous ones, for one or two minutes. Will you tell me that in 2014 we had 774 million ECU of the EEA grant, but now 800 million of the pensioners' health contributions are foreseen in the EEA? Where are the pensioners' health contributions going? In the hole to cover pensions, as they went last year and last year. You're making fun of the world. How's he gonna get through this? Reductions in the financing of hospitals, hospitals and CIDs by 350 million. In the medium term, the same thing. You recognize that the overall reductions will reach for the period 2018-2021 the 617m euros and the game that the Ministry of Health makes is terrible. While reducing the subsidy, we read that hospitals will have increased costs of EUR 135 million. This development leads to a deficit of 97 million in hospitals, which, however, you say, will develop into a surplus of 106 million, because substantial sums will be cleared out of unpaid liabilities which exceed EUR 600 million. In July alone, they had reached 550 million. Who's making fun of the Department of Health? Not the world. Because people are experiencing another reality in the EHS. Finally, apart from the submissiveness of hospitals and the tragic deficiencies, in addition to the sacrifice of the middle-class by increasing indirect taxes and not only - and all that I have said before - there is one final issue. There is one issue that concerns two hundred and ten thousand citizens who came to the polls and voted for the leader of the new body. And because it was here by a SYRIZA MEP an attempt - so much is your panic - that supposedly and well the debts of PASOK go to the new body - what tragic! - I'll tell you this. Not only does PASOK pay its debts, but the evolution of the new institution will of course become the rule of law, it is respected and it will also evolve, and whatever debts they have left, because they are repaid to the new body. We understand why you are lying, we understand why you are slandering, because people understand that there is a movement of people and a movement of change. We are voting against the budget.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u116	Mrs. Tyloridou has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u117	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the budget that we are debating is the last with the country in a commission scheme by creditors. This fact alone, which everyone now admits within and outside the country, is enough to justify being designated as a historic budget. It is historical that the budget that leads from the Memorandum Greece to Greece of fair growth. We must not forget that the adventure we've been in for seven years has cause and these causes have a name, they have an address. It is the lack of a strategic plan for economic development. It's bad financial management. It is the pillaging of the production base and infrastructure. It's the gift of taxes to the rich. It is the indifference for the future of young people. It is the waste, corruption, the complexity, the contempt of democracy itself. It is, that is, the old establishment that ruled the country with arrogance, opacity and analgesia for the needs of many, consciously serving the interests of the few. It is important not only because the issue of the performance of responsibilities is always timely, but mainly because this defeated and guilty system has been placed to tear down all the effort that has been made so far since January 2015, has been brought to revenge by the people, by the unprincipled social strata that have been shattered by power. And it is so fierce against this government and the Prime Minister that they do not hesitate to throw into the arena of micro-party confrontation even national interests, using mass misinformation and misleading media as a siege ram. We saw it, we lived it with the Turkish President's recent visit and we will see it in the future. It's certain. Against this unprecedented attack, our only weapons are the truth and our irresistible decision to carry out our mission. We have lost decades with a distorted economic policy that is being reversed today. This budget gives a message of the relaunching of the economy, of the country's society. We support the social state, health, education, vulnerable economic groups, child poverty. We protect the weak. We try and strengthen the standard of living. We also support innovative initiatives and research in order to move on to another model of productive reconstruction. We support the public, private and social sectors of the economy. We change the example of governance and proceed to a design based on national needs rather than micro-party needs. That is why mistakes and omissions that create shadows in this effort are not allowed from our side. Such a shadow is created in this budget by reducing the heating allowance for the inhabitants of mountainous regions. This is not only a practical issue, as these people have to deal with very difficult winters, but it is also a matter of deep political ones, because it sends the wrong signal to the citizens who insist on fighting at their place and to envision a fair future for the Greek region. I call on our Government to review this unfair decision and to increase the heating allowance for the first zone facing these difficult weather conditions. I believe that this call will be heard by the end of the budget debate. It's fair, and I think we should act. Ladies and gentlemen, it is necessary to move on to the next day for our country, for our citizens, for our young people and for our young people. I believe in Greece that can bring back its children, who can regain as a dynamic European country. It is up to us to build the future together with the citizens. I trust in our powers, faith in our values, optimism for tomorrow. With these feelings, I am voting for the 2018 budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u118	Thank you, Mr. Tyloridou, for keeping time. Mr. Economou from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u119	Mr President, the 2018 budget aspires to the position of the rapporteur and the party it represents to be the end of a three-year governance cycle of SYRIZA, a monumental cycle with applications for Memorandum Policies. The rapporteur said so and all the SYRIZA speakers with relief that the sufferings are finally over. But they have already signed and the tails that will accompany the Greek people and the years to come - which will certainly not lead the country - will remain strong, since the 6 billion measures for 2019 and 2020 will also have the vote of SYRIZA's rapporteur, Mr Vetta, as well as the others. However, since the effort is being made to record and account this SYRIZA memorial cycle, I would say this. After the first period of the illusions, as you have been called upon to do, and the ideological political validity of the SYRIZA, and after you entered the great political decision to vote and apply memoranda, which of course have nothing to do with the political identity you claim to have been, we have to see why you have entered this great adventure, but also why this political transformation exists and you are trying to justify it. Some will say that thirst for the dominating shapes in which you have been very comfortable in the past three years is a justification. I say this. I am carefully following your supportive basis, which says that the defence of the social state as an anti-parallel policy towards the policy of the New Democracy - and you want to preserve the social state that you found through the state structures - would be a good excuse to justify the deletion of your soul in terms of neoliberalism, Merkel, Soyble and the European right, which hardened the third memorandum and the tail of the fourth memorandum. Is that really the way it's done? So if you read the budget of 2108, but also the 2016 and 2017 budgets, which have your signature, have you defended the social state and even as it is recorded and as you have received it? Because we all read something completely different. And why this political deception and your great hypocrisy, according to what you testify to the Greek Parliament and not to what you say in the TV panels, is the great revelation of this new format and its evolution, a left-wing political expression and indeed a Balkan press, which comes to say that "we, in order to save our soul, defend our social state". What social state? The state social state. The social state of state, which is based on allowances and aggregations. It is a political proposal which really undermines the Greek people, the weak and the middle layers, and especially the weak strata, which you understand that with the policy of benefits and culinaries they are kept in a state of indifference, hostage, party enslavement and full control, as you believe. Because, indeed, he who cannot stand on his feet and have a lively and creative course, is forced to wait for the allowance and the pile that you love him with a lot of love. And that is what you call'social policy'. There is another proposal tabled by Sunday Mitsotakis, which comes from and is based on development. It is a development proposal and it says that the development process, the reconstruction and real reconstruction create jobs and jobs create the decent conditions for a reconstruction policy and society, that is, the one who has his job, has his share, he has his wages, he has his income, he becomes decent, he is based on his feet, he is leaving poverty and marginalisation. These are the two major political differences which are recorded and found. One is the state-owned approach to defending the subsidised state of cusitia, but again not reflected in the texts of the budget and 2018 and 2017 and 2016. Because it really is when you cut 350 million from state subsidies - which is your theory - of hospitals and 220 million from EEA State grant, how do you reconcile and combine a social state with a state-type left-wing politics - and not a left-wing Balkan type, as I say - and this is all a form, it is a political proposal that can be serious and of value. You can't do that. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will be done in a minute. You can't come with old-fashioned puppies to launch a health center in May 2017 at Eusmos - I'm talking about Mr. Tsipras who did it a few months ago - and then we go and visit it to see the plaque that says: "Created and inaugurated by Abraham 15 years ago." There are no such spoons. This ribbon cannot be made, my dear Sakis Papadopoulos - which we are talking about all the time - when it is raised by the means - the objective - of the Government to say "The Opening Centre for Health" and then, when the political fraud was revealed, to come out and say "we made the 24-hour operation". We went the next day to the health center and had neither organograms nor anything. It was a complete nude health center. And there a Prime Minister went and opened. And he goes back to the crime scene yesterday and reopens "for TOMY", he says, in Thessaloniki, when he says that by the end of 2017 he will have two hundred nine and it is a question whether he has fifteen to twenty all over Greece. And with doctors completely turned their backs on them. No one enters this process of partyisation of primary health and no one believes that this party state that you go to set up from the back door is the solution and answer to the primary health that the Greek citizen wants. So you're cutting the funds. Only in health is the cost of the state by EUR 562 million. And you statemen do it, who try to support the social state. You do the lazy old-fashioned puppy, and you all have the obligation to be a political proposal. Listen, it's not a political proposal. It's an attempt to hold some more power...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u120	No, Mr. Economou, we're not listening. You've been over time two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u121	In my view, you will not leave any prints in the history of the country. This footprint that you would like, cannot have these features that I have described, namely that it does not have a political full-fledged account that can have a beginning, middle and end, but that it is the struggling effort to keep our chair and to be in power positions and government positions for three and four years. You'll do that. You've already done it. It has no political, social and historical effect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u122	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, twenty-four students and students and three educational attendants from the Dalanaras School of Argolidas. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Nikolaos Xydakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u123	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are here - one of Parliament's top functions is to discuss and vote on the budget. This is much more true in these difficult years, where fiscal policy and the huge constraints have defined the fate of society as flexibly, ironically and horrendously disciplined, the form that the dreams of the new generation take and the way in which we think about how we are as a society, how we are as a people and how we are a democratic state. Unfortunately, under these huge constraints, we are forced to make a policy - those who, as we can - at this time, in the spring of 2017, with a historic milestone in the summer of 2018, we are starting to think of ourselves after the coldness of the multiannual crisis and the great recession. There are some points that give us some optimism. There is a liquid situation in Europe, which, along with the disadvantages, creates some opportunities for strategics for our country. There is an upgraded geostrategic role for Greece in the Mediterranean for energy and strategic planning, as well as for the role we can play in the Balkans and the Middle East. There is also a plan on pregnancy between McCrone and Merkel, in which I hope we can be included in a creative way and not stay in the second and third categories of European integration. So we have potential. There are opportunities. But all this needs plan, determination and a certain national self-confidence and convergence in some minimum objectives. As far as the debate on this budget is concerned, because it is also baptized by the Minister of Finance, by the Prime Minister and by the entire government which introduces it as 'the last Memorandum of Understanding', I think that the first thought in the minds of reflection and to us who are also discussing it is what will happen in Greece after the Memorandum. I think that all political thought, political planning and political action on our part should be to speak in clear words and boldly in the world, in the citizens who are listening to us and to tell them how we can imagine Greece together after the memoranda. Certainly we cannot go back to the ruthlessness, the amnesia and the american deprivation of the years of credit over-expansion, the over-expansion of corruption, over-consumption and over-accumulation of expectations, without any job and without any responsibility. No one can promise to return to 2004, it's gone. We should also see how we are going to make society, production, life after the magnificence of austerity and over-taxation, after the Memorandum of Minority and how we will produce politics when we finally get rid of this lasting exhaustive negotiation that has drained the political system from forces and thoughts. And what's that? I have very little time at my disposal to say that if we want to rectify society, this goes along with the correction of production. And all this is done not only in the unfavourable environment left by the great recession, that is to say, about two million fellow citizens calling for a dividend of solidarity or being maintained by social solidarity benefits, two million deeply, heavyly beaten, almost destroyed, but it is a general environment, an economy that moves internationally and in our country even more in the fields of semi-permanent unemployment, precariousness, bad demographic data, the lamentation of robotics that consumes the world of work and, above all, in what should be the first concern for a left-wing democratic governance to strengthen faith and value to the free citizen producer. So the government can do over the next eighteen, nineteen months a policy beyond the memorials in every way, with all the tension, with all the powers, with the unfolding of all will. He's done things. He lives to do a lot more, much more and to think a lot more. It remains specifically to think about how it will remedy all the injustices and imperfections of EKKA and overtaxation, how it will help the small businessman and the free trader who is being squeezed at the moment, how it will coordinate all the actions, how it will reconstruct new content and design to the processing, how it will exploit the strategic advantage of energy, especially in two branches, which are often underestimated or left to the automatic, how tourism will become a truly sustainable area of development, unbundling without the problems of overcompensation and over-use of infrastructures, and how a large capital that our country has and remains only in words to discuss how culture can be a core for the development of creative industries. Only then will we be able to talk to the citizens, give them confidence, believe that we can move forward. Only in this way will we give young people something to be caught, something to believe and above all to believe in their country, to believe in the power of solidarity within society, to believe in the forces of democracy and the democratic state. This is all the plan, the requirement in which we must move. We must have the pretext of a left democratic man, and that alone must lead to government action and political planning. In this area, our self-criticism for delays, deficits, weaknesses, famine, the burden of the history of the great recession which has fallen on the shoulders of a small political formation that is now aspiring and is the great democratic party. In these words, I urge you not only to vote on the budget, but above all to think about the next day, the next day that will be a very difficult uproot, a time when all ideas, all thoughts, and not a reason to be shallow, empty, splitting, "go away from the chair, to come." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u124	Mr Barriottas has the floor from the PASOK - DIMAR.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u125	Thank you, Mr President. I will begin by reminding those who may wish to forget it - that the 2017 budget debated last year, with a similar optimism from the government, was revised downwards in the year. The growth from 2.7% in the last year's budget is estimated by the government itself at 1.6% this year. I don't have the time nor, if you want, the individual knowledge to analyse adequately what poisonous effects this fundamental error has in the calculations of the rest. I would remind you, however, that the budgets are indeed sometimes revised, with the difference that the forecasts for the euro area - to which we are well or poorly owned - have also been revised, but upwards. Thus, from 1.7% prediction, growth in the eurozone this year is 2.2%. Greece, unlike all other countries, unlike Cyprus, the Memorandum countries, the difficult and problematic economy in France, is the only country that not only has the lowest growth compared to all other countries, but is the only one that had to trim its expectations because of economic policy and forecasts of the previous year. Last year growth was based on the expectation of private expenditure growth, on the expectation of investment growth and on the expectation of export growth. This year's forecast is based on the same one. So the same investments that have not been made in the meantime will be made this year. They're incarinated in the meantime. The banks that did not exist until last year to support exports have exactly the same problems and a little worse than they had last year. And private expenditure - which we heard last year insanely from this Step, from various SYRIZA colleagues, such as money coming out of mattresses or that they will start to consume the money that has been hidden and others - this year was anemic and time will again be anemic for the same reason. Because the increase in tax revenue focuses on increasing household taxation. So it's a little hard to make both of them at the same time. I guess it's just gonna be the first one. The budget also provides for cuts in expenditure. It is a good thing to say, first of all, that, on the contrary, it provides for an increase in payroll, an increase in public payroll and, in fact, cuts, as we will see, in the social state and nowhere else. In 2018, the goal is to achieve a re-examination of 3.82% against 3.5% anticipated. And for this to happen, we have the prediction of growth in 2.5% for 2018 and we have cuts. These are the two solutions. As I said this year - as I have already said - taxes, the weakness of the banks, the allergy shown by this government to large investments - with great consistency, I have to say - are actually undermining the optimistic prospects of the budget itself. The other thing that drugizes them is the impossibility and allergy of the government to make changes and reforms. The savings can no longer come from budget expenditure only by cutbacks. Let me give you an example. We voted last year to establish and enforce digital signatures in the public sector, 400 million a year, says IOBE, that is, what is being cut off from hospitals this year. There is no time limit set by the law, which is supposed to apply in 2018, which has not been breached. Nothing has happened at all. So we are moving forward and staying behind in the development of Europe, and we are actually burdening the social state with a great cost of cuts, almost exclusively. The funds for insurance, care and social protection this year are severely curtailed. 600 million is for health only. The government is baptising unpaid pensions in the meantime - the pensions it did not manage within 2017 to calculate - as a surplus in the funds. If I don't pay, I have a surplus. If I keep them in my pocket locked up, I have a surplus. It bases the cuts on the fact that you did not understand what it is and burdens pensioners with more costs on the doctor than before. And I'll explain how. Health cuts make an eye. It's 350 million a year only for hospitals. There are so many other cuts from the Ministry's operating expenses to the benefits for the insured. Give an example. Four hundred recruitments that Mr Paulakis has been announcing for a long time - and I hope he will do so because they are useful and will be a very great intervention in the health system - are even more than 17 million per year. The cuts are 350. It's such a difference. And what we did not hear the other day in the committee where Mr Polakis raised the matter: that we do not know how to read, that we do not know mathematically, that it is not cuts, that it is not what we think, that it is something else and that the EEAY will increase payments to hospitals, as if it is 'the uncle from America' and every time something is missing, EPPY is ticking with cheques - it is not so - and that everything is'milk - milk', that we do not know what is happening to us, that what we read in the tables as cuts is not. What the government does is actually specific. In order to achieve the overcrowd that seeks, it cuts 600 million from the hospitals. These 600 million a year at this time, if the budget comes out, there will be subsidies, allowances and donations. If the budget does not come out, there will probably be electoral benefits, whatever comes first. It makes a 'cushion', i.e. for an election campaign, if and when needed. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will end in a minute, Mr President. I won't get over the previous ones. "The market threshold is not reduced," says Mr Blonde. It's the first inaccurate. The limit on the markets in hospitals is reduced from 4.3 to 3.7. But even so, in fact, what is going on with the purchase limit down there is that the hospitals will end in 2018 by charging all their debts in 2019. This is the first inaccurate. Hospitals carry debts this way. It shall bear the cost of the health system in 2019. That's what he's doing to get the surplus out. The second inaccuracy, as Mr. Paulakis and Mr. Xanthos have said, is that hospitals have cash available at the end of the year, so we have money to buy in 2018. The hospitals have 470 million available cash and 550 million debts already in July, which we do not know yet. All commitments exist. The 470 million are already committed. Hospitals will go out with a deficit at the end of 2018, when this is completed. These are inaccurate. The hospitals owe more than they've got on the edge, just Greek. Third inaccuracy. The "American Uncle" will pay the gaps. EOPY, gentlemen, it's not an independent body that has money that's bought them by retired people with 60% to share them. EEAY's indebted to hospitality. The only way to increase the revenues of hospitals and the health system from the EEA is to increase disease, mortality and hospitals. More cancers in hospitals, more money from the EEA for the fees from the cancer fund. More medicine in hospitals, more money than the EEA for drugs. No donations. So there is no funding from there either. I would need another seven minutes to say what's going on at the EPPY, but anyway. The 350 million will be gone. The missing sheets, not because the staff hides them, but because they do not exist, of time will be essential deficiencies in medicines and infrastructure. What the government is blocking is, firstly, that it will make cuts in on-call. They voted on them the other day. Part of the 350 million will be paid by doctors. It is already making cuts on ancillary staff, slowly and in the worst, and we heard the Minister the other day public about the issue of uninsured people for the first time, in the way he legislated on it, which also contains strategic investors.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u126	Mr. Barriott, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u127	In a minute, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u128	One more minute? It's a sign of maturity to keep time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u129	I'm the only one you're always having this conversation with. Mr Xydakis spoke eight minutes and other colleagues spoke ten.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u130	Should you consider why this is happening? Which doesn't happen, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u131	I'll finish here if you want. I am obliged, however, to point out that you are showing a certain bias against me, and I am sorry about that. This isn't the first time. It is permanent, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u132	See the timer, Mr. Barriota? Immigration Policy Minister Yiannis Balafas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u133	Ladies and gentlemen, I will not dwell on general references - not that they do not have their importance too - and much more on genealogy, which many have been said in this Chamber these days. Being given my support for the left-wing, progressive, patriotic policy that we have been pursuing over the years and expressed within this budget and my opposition in terms of misery politicians, who, unfortunately, are mainly emanating from Acoustic Opposition, the embarrassment of why the predictions have not come out, but many times in destruction, which, too, is not confirmed, will not - I shall not refer to them - in the territory of the Ministry of Migration Policy. Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the Ministry of Migration Policy is a new ministry, essentially on the basis of a recommendation. In one year of existence and operation it was invited to deal effectively with two major challenges. The first challenge, which has received and received the greatest publicity, is the management of the refugee - immigration population in our country, as potential beneficiaries of international protection, the population that is often referred to as asylum seekers. They are the people who have been caught, in fact, in our country for the last two - three years, about fifty - five thousand at the moment. The second challenge that we have faced and are facing, which we are usually forgetting, is the care for those who are and are working in our country since the 1990s, when the government at the time opened the borders with Albania - remember - or in the 2000s, when the ruling people were massively bringing to work as cheap labour in Olympic projects. So it is these economic immigrants who are the vast majority of those citizens of third country nationals who live in our country. This figure is multiple among the people in the last two - three years and is seven hundred and fifty thousand. Unfortunately, some colleagues, from the major opposition, in particular, have in the past called into question the need for a separate ministry for immigration policy. The figures, however, and the corresponding tensions say something different. In total, about eight hundred thousands of third-country nationals are currently in our country. And to be honest - it is kind of inadequate, unfortunately, that many times - that figure is not expected to be reduced in the coming years. Like every ministry, ladies and gentlemen, which has a strong operational character, the Ministry of Migration Policy needs a strong administrative structure, which was not the whole time. That is what I shall refer to, on the occasion of today's debate on the 2018 budget. I would like you to know that the main axes of the planning of the Ministry of Migration Policy for the following year, which we are discussing, are: Firstly, reducing the pressure on island regions, particularly the north-eastern Aegean, and improving living conditions in the structures of the inland and islands. Secondly, the further promotion of the programme for the installation of refugees in rent apartments. Thirdly, speeding up the examination of requests for residence permits for legal immigrants. Fourthly, the continued effort to tackle the problem pan-Europeanly and internationally, but also in the Dublin Treaty, etc. And fifthly, drawing up a three-year programme, a three-year strategy for the social integration of refugees and migrants. Of the things, the key point in achieving or being able to achieve all these basic axes is the organisational development and improvement of the efficiency of the units of the Ministry, the completion of the necessary jobs - are sub-chapter to the necessary, according to the Organisation of the Ministry that has been approved, those who are currently serving at the Ministry - with a key tool to achieve the objective of strengthening the services of the Ministry, the regular budget being discussed. You understand, ladies and gentlemen, that, apart from the necessary strengthening of the staff, which I mentioned before, it is equally important to strengthen and improve all kinds of infrastructure used by the officials of the Ministry in order to meet the high requirements of their work, so that they can meet not only the typical obligation of the Ministry to operate in an electronic governance environment, as laid down by law, but above all to enable them to cope with the need to speed up a series of actions in terms of e-government and not with terms of bureaucratic perception of the 1980s. Ladies and gentlemen, we are a ministry which, to a large extent, implements its policies, at least in the context of the population of asylum seekers, through funding, but also programmes co-financed by the European Union. And I would like to focus on this because various irresponsibility is heard, which is due either to the fact that the people who say them do not read, although they do have the title of immigration policy coordinator and have a great deal of parliamentary experience, or to the fact that if they read, they ignore what they read, because the reality does not serve their opinions. That is why I would like to say once again to you and to the outside, speaking that the main source of funding - it could not be otherwise - is the European Union, and secondly, the European Economic Area, which is not mainly the European Union. The European Commission, in a large part, makes its funding through its authorised partners, international organisations, the High Commissioner, etc. and non-governmental organisations and, to a lesser extent, it finances our national, our own programmes managed by the Ministry of Economy and Development. The beneficiaries of the programmes are basically state bodies, various ministries. These programmes, as I have said, are cofinanced by the European Union and Greece. The Greek contribution does not go through the public investment programme. Because, again because of ignorance, non-study or ignorance of data, there are often - and I would like to point out a number of things about low absorption - people read it somewhere and say it, but I do not think they offer a good service either to themselves or to the truth - of the resources available to the country by the European Union, and I would like to point out - and I would ask them to have objections and not to aerials - that, on the basis of the data of the Ministry of Economy, the absorption of these resources from Greece for funds which are not available until 2017, but by 2020, it reaches and exceeds 30%, about 150 million, when these percentages are the highest in all the countries of the European Union. And for 2018, the public investment programme remains at EUR 25 million and this reflects the small involvement of the national budget, as far as our Ministry is concerned, in the management of the refugee and migrant population. Just to say it more straightforward. Without European funding, it is clear that we could respond. In other words, the state budget is not particularly burdened by the management of the refugee - immigration issue, a problem. Finally, our Ministry, in cooperation with the relevant ministries, education, etc., will immediately promote and implement two important integration programmes. One is a programme of language learning and is about learning Greek and English for the population, which, by age, cannot be integrated into formal education. The second is the recording of these people's skills. This is the best way to help them by recording their skills in knowledge or even in work experience. Ladies and gentlemen, the global juncture shows that the inequalities and wars that create the migration and refugee current do not seem to be sliding but, unfortunately, the work that a ministry has to offer as ours will continue and will increase in the years ahead. To conclude, let me make a comment yesterday on the proposal made by the President of the European Council, Mr Tusk, who has, in fact, proposed to change the policy that has to do with a quota in the various European Union countries to allocate the refugee population, because this, in his opinion, is not right. In our opinion, this view of Mr Tusk, his proposal, which we believe will not be further promoted, is, above all, deeply anti-European. It would, if it were to apply, the substance of the texts governing the principles of the European Union. The most important pillar on which the European structure has been built, we will once again say that it is the principle of solidarity. Without this pillar, there cannot be a European Union. The management of the refugee crisis is a matter that the European Union as a whole must manage and not individual states on its behalf. The funding that Greece has secured from the European Union - and I mentioned them earlier as a positive one - is not funding which compensates our country or countries for the first time, so that the countries of North, Central Europe remain insoluble, do not even see, do not get a scent from what is going on at the entrances of Europe. The mid-term acceptance of only 29% of refugees, which had agreed to be relocated, is a gross violation of the principles governing the European Union. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] That's what I think we should all be together. And from this point of view, the immediate position - in response to the Commissioner, Mr Avramopoulos, on this issue, I think it should be a sample and framework within which we all have to move, regardless of our other differences. It is a matter of our country, it is a question of patriotic, it is a matter of national after all. The government - and our country as a whole as a whole - will defend the management of immigration or refugee as a matter of the European Union as a whole on the basis of this principle of solidarity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u134	Mrs Anastasia Gara has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u135	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the three days that we are discussing the budget, I think I have not heard a decent and I have contributed criticism from the opposition parties. Because I think that in this top process, in the state budget debate, we should have a number debate, we should make proposals on which codes and what areas we need to strengthen, where to transfer money and actually have a productive debate on the next day, the next year to be followed by the state budget. So I won't get into this conversation. However, I would like to share with you something that amuses me and sounds very often in this House too often by PASOK and New Democracy officials: we are doing - it says - everything we SYRIZA MPs are doing to stay in our chairs. I will not judge the content of this phrase. But I am going to judge who says this phrase, because in this Chamber every day we are working with fellow Members who have nursed up to forty years as MPs, who have not done any other job and what they know professionally to do, is to be MPs. These people blame us, which we have not even closed down three years as MPs, that we are doing everything we can to stay in this power - which I think we have not taken power in our hands, but governance - while they have seen the state for so many decades as their misery. And since I said a vilaeti, I would like to say this: I would like to sincerely welcome Mr Mitsotakis' initiative and decision to strike down the family rule in New Democracy. I say this with absolute honesty and respect. I believe that our political system must be refined by the phenomenon of family rule, because I think it keeps us too much behind decades. However, although I respect and support this decision for the whole political and party world, it reminds me of a known story where the young prince, younger brother, takes the ring from the king - father. When he takes attacks from the rest of his brothers, for they failed to take the ring and become kings and save his life, he decides to abolish the kingdom. However, he suddenly stays unemployed, because he was king. That's what he knew to do. So he breaks the kingdom without himself thinking about what his role is in it. So he stays unemployed and eventually has a tragic ending, because he is killed by his brothers, because he removed them from the right to become kings themselves. However, I hope that all of us will make a firm contribution to the fight against family rule in the political system, because I believe that the political representatives of society must vote for their own values, for their own opportunities, for their own qualifications and not just their name - which can be honored - of the father, the mother, the uncle or the barbas in Koroni. As far as the budget is concerned, I will make a few very small comments. We know that we are ruling and moving in a very restrictive context. We don't always do what we want. We are, however, doing what we are committed to. The first commitment we had toward the people was that we would get this country out of the memoranda. And that's what we're trying to do. At the same time, however, we have committed ourselves and had priority over fighting corruption and complexity. We had priority to alleviate the state. We were given priority to saving money, and all this was to return with dignity to the people, that is, to the people who produce this surplus, to the people who produce profitability, to the workers, who, by the way, when we asked what the political plan of the New Democracy is, their representative, the rapporteur, Mr Dendias, actually told us that they would save money to reduce tax rates by redundancies. 'We will abolish...' - says - 'the organic positions you have created'. We've seen the play before. I think they have no problem doing it again. So this budget, beyond the suffocating frameworks, shows little castings of our own policy. And that is the strengthening of the Public Investment Programme in order to go to infrastructure projects, which you have not done for years. It has strengthened the welfare state, social welfare, has a child support policy and to tackle child poverty, has adapted the programmes to be accessible to small and medium-sized professionals, investors, farmers, has increased the funds for innovation, research, development, the use of Renewable Energy Sources. These are samples within the budget, they are captured in it, they have been analysed and they will be analysed quite well by the ministers, the special speakers and the rapporteurs. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] You will give me one more minute, Mr President. I want to make a comment on two slogans that I hear from PASOK and the New Democracy. PASOK reports very often that it needs a change movement for a new Greece. The New Democracy, for its part, mentions the need for political change. I'll totally agree with both. And it is time to see and agree on the content of this political change and the content of the pact for the new Greece and the creation of the next day in the memorandum period. However, when we talk about creating a new Greece, it wants social and political subjects. With old materials, no new proposals are made. Likewise for the New Democracy, which speaks of political change. But I think you mean your party rehab, because you have nothing new to propose. Because the new era requires the modernisation of the public system, the support of public structures and the social state, the strengthening of science, technology and innovation. It requires transparency, control, dignity in all aspects of public life, use of the Internet - you have never promoted it - to strengthen collective and cooperative schemes. It also requires respect for workers, respect for the people he produces and profit should return to him, the use of alternative energy sources with an environmental footprint, the breakage of the customer relationship with the citizens, the moralisation, in the end, of the political system. You demand government change precisely because you fear the political change that we have brought to the political system and to the country, a political choice that was an order of the Greek people, because it is sick of your remulsion, it is disgusted with the complexity, it is sick of customer relations. Afraid! Fear our own sincerity to the people and respect to him. Fear our morality and modesty. Fear of fighting interlocutory. Fear the break with customer logic, because she reproduces power relationships for you and keeps you in your chairs.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u136	Mrs. Gara, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u137	Two seconds. Fear the new example produced in Greek society. You are afraid that citizens do not need to be Members of Parliament's customers and ask for rosés to find a job, make an appointment to the doctor or get transferred. Fear the new example. Yeah, it's done anyway. They don't have to be customers. And that doesn't have any spins. So that's what you're afraid of, so you're asking for party rehabilitation. Neither the Greek people nor we will allow it. All we will allow is a productive debate on the next day in our country, with young people, with productive forces and with modern thought in front of the new page, in the new page, in the new Greece, about political and social change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u138	Mr. Kefaliannis from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u139	Thank you, Mr President. Although my honourable friend and dear friend, Mrs Garra, referred to the fact that there is no budget criticism, I noticed that from the eight minutes of her speech, the budget was just mentioned in one. All the rest was a political analysis of the political system. I will ask you a specific question, why did he once again speak of the well-known 'old' and 'new': Mr Kammens, who is convening with you, whom you have covered a few days ago for a specific scandal, since he is a Member of Parliament? Which party did it belong to? Mr. Kurublis in which party did he belong? I could mention too many names. And I will not do it personally, because perhaps the half-parliamentary group in the SYRIZA will take the floor on staff. I think, however, that if we talk about 'old' and 'new', at least we should be a little more consistent and discuss these issues a little more specifically. I tell you very much, because we are both new Members and you know very well what 'old' is and what 'new' is in this Chamber. With regard to the budget debate, I think we all agree that this is a top parliamentary procedure. I think it always is a very good opportunity to discuss the real situation of the economy and society, not in general and vaguely, but with very specific data. In fact, this data is not derived from the opposition, but it is provided by the government, as it is the one that submits the budget. Fortunately, in democracy, data does not change according to party identity or wishful desires of each of us. No matter what misrepresentations are said, no matter how misinformation is produced in this Chamber, unfortunately hard reality is not covered in numerical terms. The only thing that the 2018 budget shows, once again, is, unfortunately, how inexpensive there has been left-wing rhetoric and how empty the supposed left-wing social sensitivity over the years. The 2018 budget is the third in order of budget submitted by the Government of SYRIZA and Independent Greeks. And it is sadly the third hit on the incomes of employees, pensioners and freelance professionals, which unfortunately comes from what the government knows very well to do. In other words, new increases in taxes, insurance contributions and reductions in social costs. To be more specific, there is also a numerical imprint and it is EUR 1.9 billion. I think if it's worth something to keep our fellow citizens from all the conversation, that's the number. However, our fellow citizens should also know why these new measures are actually being taken, namely EUR 1.9 billion for new measures. The government says it is necessary to achieve the goals of the primary surplus of 2018 and to have a clean exit from the memoranda. Maybe it's the only truth he's ever said. Of course, as far as the intentions are concerned, not the result it seeks. Only, unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, this is half the truth. The other half is that these measures are not necessary to achieve this objective. It is, however, absolutely essential that a party army, which was made up of the twenty new positions of deputy general and special secretaries, the hundreds of members of the board of directors and the two and a half thousand additional posters can be fed. And there is a need for these measures to be maintained in an election hostage of new generations of contractors, such as guarding and cleaning. And it is necessary for these new measures to be supported by the forty-eight - please - new public bodies such as the Real Estate Management Agency, the Public Energy Investment Corporation, the Thessaloniki Transport Project Agency, while there is already the Thessaloniki Urban Transport Agency, the Public Port Authority, and there is already a Regulatory Authority, the National Agricultural Movement and, of course, the top of all, the Greek Space Agency. These, ladies and gentlemen, will finance the new reduction in the CSCE, the heating allowance, the abolition of the increase in VAT on the islands, the abolition of the extradition of medical expenses and, of course, the reduction in the Public Investment Programme, which, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, will see on page 55 that it is actually shown, for specific figures and specific pages. What will be the impact of the measures on the primary surplus of 2018, we already know them, as long as we see the implementation of this year's budget. This year's success story of the primary surpluses, forged by the government at every opportunity, is unfortunately covered by the harsh reality of the figures. The total tax measures in 2017 not only yielded much less revenue than they had been budgeted, but the revenues fell back to lower levels than those in 2016. You increased the excise duty on cigarettes and fuels and eventually collected less. The new scale for calculating the solidarity levy rather than increasing has reduced the revenues. Only last October were EUR 1.2 billion added to new public debts to the state. One of our six fellow citizens does not pay VAT in time, two out of five did not pay the income tax, one out of four did not pay the ENPI, one out of seven companies did not pay the income tax for legal persons. And, of course, what did you do? You proceeded to confiscations. At a time when you are hypocritically cut off for the auctioning of the first home - after you baptized it popular residence - more than a million citizens have already been seized by their property and deposits. Conclusion: you have soared overtax and reaped reduced revenues and social despair. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. But there is one last thing that since this year's budget debate, I think our fellow citizens should hold back. The cynical confession of the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Juliarakis, on a gross middle-class tax. I will, of course, stand by the idea of ignorance, of how inequality and poverty are created. The fact that in general the left-wing mind around the world and obviously in Greece has lost contact with the organization of production for about forty years has been known, but this opinion is limited to the field of redistribution and the only thing he knows to ask for is more taxes than "capital" and those he considers privileged. In order to produce, however, there must also be some 'boss', as you call them, whether they are investors or executives. And if you doubt the necessity, let SYRIZA Members ask the Prime Minister, who just sent a video message to investors yesterday. I would ask the government's financial staff to explain to Mr Tsipras that, in order for there to be production, there should also be some form of knowledge-based economy and that this knowledge creates and explains it to workers, trainees and experienced people who are well paid. In other words, the middle class, which you are exaggerating, is actually the workers who actually have this knowledge. Mr President, I will conclude with this. I have listened to Mr Mada before making a reference to Mr Stakoura, who has actually mentioned the reduction of GDP by 30 billion and the total cost of the SYRIZA Government over the last three years. The 100 billion, my dear colleague, which we are referring to, which is the cost of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government over the last three years directly and indirectly - because what Mr Stagioras said about 30 billion is the GDP that was actually lost by this government - firstly, Mr Regling said and I put it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Kefaloyannis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It is neither Mr Mitsotakis' statement nor Mr Stakoura's statement. Mr. Regling, who is the head of the ESM, with whom you are talking and with which you are closing the evaluations, has already spoken about the cost of the Greek economy since the famous negotiation of the first half for 100 billion.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u140	Mr. Kefaliannis, complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u141	I shall conclude, Mr President. So you understand that the cost is very specific. And if one wants to make the comparison and go in all forty years, if the forty years cost the Greek people 300 billion, the six months cost 100 billion with your own governance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u142	Before I give the floor to Mr Thraniotis, I should like to inform the House that four other speakers will follow with which the ninth cycle of speakers will be completed, and then Mrs Konordos, the Minister for Culture and Sport, will intervene. Mr. Thraniotis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u143	Thank you, Mr President. You will allow me to comment on the previous speaker, Mrs Gara, and ask her 'who is the old and the new', referring to MEPs with a long term term mandate in Parliament. I think an old Member may have fresh ideas, new ideas, as well as a new Member may not have such ideas. We are talking today about the 2018 budget, the top annual functioning of Parliament. This budget, because it is the last of a series of comitology budgets, marks the end of a time, a time when it will remain in collective historical memory with the most negative emotions. We firmly believe that, by voting on this budget, we will close the chapter of the committee that has been imposed on us by the catastrophic policy that the parties to the so-called power have carried out in recent years. And it will be this government that will be able to return to the people and Parliament a large part of our national sovereignty over the last eight years. Watching the positions of Officerial Reconciliation and the Democratic Association, one would think that all of the country's suffering has arisen over the last three years. Do you really think our people have a goldfish memory, that that's how he easily forgets? In these three years, exercising a zero opposition, is it enough to be purified to the swimming pool in Siloam for the huge crime you committed, putting the country into commission? Did the lenders wake up one morning and say that there, in Greece, we need to tighten the straps? Oh, no. Because they are the policies you have conducted, which you have governed the country. It is the loan of your parties, the New Democracy and the PASOK, about 400m euros, pawning for future elections. Such arrogance! It is the world's originality of 2,80 meat, 2,80 apricots, the price list of CEDEFOP, which, along with the ads you shared in the "letters" will go to the prosecutor. It is not sea-loving, but aeronautics - you remember Mr Psycharis' cynical confession - to the few-principles of the press and television, in order to benefit you. It's the loan and unscrupulous ones to friends and friends who became villas and deposits in exotic places. It is still the policies that launched health expenditure from EUR 2 billion in 2004 to EUR 17 billion in 2013 and which forced the Minister of Health himself to ask himself: ‘Where did this money go? Find them.’ Now we know where they are. They're in tax havens. The list of your omissions and your conscious choices is endless. In this government, whether like it or not, the clergy were asked to correct this situation. This government will take the country out of the commission in August 2018, will lead it to a definitive exit from the crisis and from the programs, as everyone admits, and will finally function as a normal state. The recent examples show us that the country is recovering trust internationally. The exchange of old bonds to 86% is a resounding example, as is the success of the five-year bond. With the exit on the markets, the financial space will be created which will enable the public health system, public education and social services to be strengthened even more. It will lead to the reduction of tax rates and insurance contributions. It will relieve the consistent free professionals and farmers who have lifted the burden of the crisis. This budget strengthens the social state, despite the crisis. The budget in the area of social solidarity from EUR 750 million in 2015 will reach EUR 1,83 billion in 2018, that is, more than twice. Preferential allowances from EUR 650 million are increased to EUR 910 million. Four hundred new kindergarten structures are being set up for ten thousand additional posts, with the aim of 2019 being a hundred sixty-five thousand jobs compared with nine thousand today. School meals are being strengthened, creating protection for child poverty. A sum of EUR 1,4 billion is repaid to the citizens from the revenue overturn, i.e. EUR 750 million is paid to the beneficiaries as a dividend, the illegally withheld insurance contributions from 2012 and public utility services are strengthened. Because there is a lot of talk about how this amount has emerged, we need to remind ourselves of the decline in unemployment due to the creation of new job-seekers. Let us also remind ourselves that unemployment has been found at 27% and is now at 20%. One cannot be proud of it, but there is a lasting downward trend. It resulted from the fight against tax evasion and tax evasion and, most importantly, from the voluntary disclosure of incomes. I would stress that 711 million have been strengthened by public revenue. I would like to make a small reference to Lasithi, an area with special performance in agricultural production, tourism and an excellent natural environment. There were and there were abandoned and incomplete works, poorly designed infrastructure and mainly broken hospitals with subordinated services. With few resources and monumental constraints, making strict hierarchies, we try to complete projects and restore the operation of hospitals and administration. The stability and perspective of the country has triggered large investment projects which had been frozen since the beginning of the crisis. Despite the great development of tourism and the performance of agriculture, a great deal still needs to be done. In particular, the protection of workers' contracts at the workplace must be guaranteed. Integrated design and construction of the northern road axis of Crete from Kastelli to Sitia. Heraklion Airport. The creation of a new cooperative movement that protects and strengthens farmers' effort. The immediate completion of neglected irrigation projects, which is a pressing priority, must be dealt with in a very dry-heat area. Ladies and gentlemen, the next budget, 2019, will actually have a left mark. It will be the first budget after the net exit from the memoranda, which will be both secure and sure, to some great disappointment. But it will contain a great truth and a contradiction. The great truth is that you put us in the memorials and we, the current government will take us out of them. I believe and I am sure that the Greek people will appreciate and applaud it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u144	Before giving the floor to the next speaker, he asked for the parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Mr Mandas, to speak. Mr. Mada, wait a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u145	Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u146	Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u147	As this debate on SYRIZA's cost of negotiation or governance is constantly repeating and, in our view, very wrongly, I would like to quote some specific elements in this Chamber. So they say - and Mr Regling has said so, but it is adopted by the Qualified Opposition, which is why I am making this intervention - that the entire amount of the loan contract, the EUR 86 billion, is a new debt. What's the answer to that? The answer is that 54 billion goes to refinancing the old debt. Of the 25 billion that had been calculated for the recapitalisation of the banks, only five billion were used and under no circumstances the remaining 20 billion cannot be counted as new debt. Furthermore, Mr President, there are also analyses, such as, for example, Mr Dixon, which puts on the table that, when comparing the interest rates that we achieved in the new loan with the earlier interest rates, which were four times higher, we may have had from negotiating not costing 86 billion, which is a profit for us, but a profit of 40 billion. She's a visual, too. We don't adopt it. But I testify to her. Finally, Mr Regling reaches the famous sum of 100 billion, because he adds to these 86 billion predictions for the development of 2015-2016. If so, then we too could, in relation to the forecasts for 2011, 2012, 2013, account for EUR 33 billion in previous governance. This debate will continue to do so, it is obvious.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u148	But to finish, Mr. Manda.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u149	I shall conclude, Mr President. With regard to public debt - there will also be other answers to them, I mean - I want to say only for the year 2015 that on 31-12-2014 the debt was EUR 324 billion and on 31-12-2015 it was EUR 321 billion.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u150	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u151	Mr President, can I have the floor for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u152	Mr. Stavura, what do you want now?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u153	I'm a parliamentary representative. I just need a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u154	Mr. Mandash has provided some evidence, expressed an opinion.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u155	I'll finish in a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u156	I'll give you a minute, Mr. Stakoura.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u157	Indeed, this debate is very interesting and I think it can be done in depth. Both Mr. Regling and the Governor of the Bank of Greece have raised the cost of SYRIZA's governance in the first half of 2015 over 85 billion euros. I, too, have told the committee - and I want to be very precise - how does this result, on the basis of real facts: We have lost GDP of 32 billion euros. Mr. Mada, it's a loss of GDP. If we were to go to the past - very glad to do the exercise - in the second memorandum we had better performance on development than objectives. That's a very interesting exercise, to do it. We went higher than the growth targets in 2013 and 2014. Well, we have 32 billion. The increase in government dues? Plus two billion. The wipe of cash? They have to return the money. Plus nine billion. The new recapitalisation of the banks? Plus 5.4 billion euros. The cost of the final loss of money from the previous recapitalisation after the property was lost? Plus 20 billion euros. The return of the bonds of the CFS? Plus 11 billion euros. Loss of income? At EUR 6.2 billion. Sum? Over 85 billion euros. That's the truth.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u158	Mr Stavoura, you have begun with an admission that is wrong. Are you planning a loss of exposure?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u159	Good, Mr. Staura. Mr. Iliopoulos has the floor since the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u160	Thank you, Mr President. We have chicken fighting here in the Greek Parliament. We have been dizzy in these days when we hear speakers beating - good time as now - for things that the Greek people are experiencing in their everyday lives. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Mr. President, please. Gentlemen, don't have a conversation now, you'll get the reason to solve them later.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u161	Please! Mr. Xydakis, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u162	Cockfighting again, I repeat, without any substance. We are listening in here to some speeches and we think or that we are in another country or that this Parliament has moved to another time, to another country. I would not start with what I am about to say now, but I am forced by Mr Balafa's speech, because he was constantly talking about money, as if the problem of illegal immigration is only the money that burdens the Greek people and the funding, which he told us was coming from the Public Investment Programme. Now we understand why you consider them to be investors. Because the Greek State's money, which is intended for investment, is given for them and not for the Greeks. Well, it's not just the money, but it's the settlement of Greece, which, as Mr Balafas said, will be, because these people - who are already being transported - to the mainland. We'll record, he said, their skills, learn, say, Greek and he said... Mr President, I am speaking here, and Mrs SYRIZA has a problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u163	Mr. Heliopoulou, it doesn't bother you. Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u164	It's bothering me, Mr. President. If you guys talked and listened all the time, "tsou, tsou, tsou", what would you do? I mean, every thing I say is like Katina.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u165	Well, continue your speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u166	I'm on it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u167	Chicken-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u168	You're inconvenienced by what we're saying. It's okay. It'll pass you. A few are your breads in power. Slowly, then, you are trying to land in our country by bringing illegal immigrants from the islands to the mainland, as you have said to us, and so we have some other statements. The SYRIZA executives say here that "Slowly we will remove Greece from the Memorandum". Three years they haven't taken it off. Only, to explain to the Greek people, you did not say that you would slowly take it off and three years have passed and we will remain in the memorandum for many more years, you said that you would rip the memorandum. So everything is done on the basis of a single criterion that the deadlines should not be lost. The third assessment was carried out which closed to dt time. That's never happened before. Indeed, it was because the SYRIZA government is trying in every way to stay stricken with power. So long we have heard of the morally supposed advantage of the Left, which has, of course, disappeared over the three years of governance. Fortunately, because after a thousand years - and if - the Greek people will retire with a left-wing government! So let's see here some numbers, some SYRIZA's achievements. Ninety enterprises close every day. The public's unpaid obligations towards private individuals are EUR 5 billion and, while it owes the Greek State, it allegedly gives social dividends. Private people's debts to the state are EUR 100 billion, as people do not have to give. We have seven hundred payrolls and pensions a day, left-wing government. Five hundred thousand professionals even owe the power. Thirty thousand entrepreneurs have retarded debts to the OAU. Four out of ten citizens are unable to pay insurance and tax obligations. These are SYRIZA's achievements. We have heard today from a symbiosis that from tax evasion and corruption Greece is losing 15 billion euros a year, which, of course, we are seeing immediately after becoming villas and escaping throughout Greece from those dealing with tax evasion and corruption in our country, which is, of course, a national sport. We don't talk about that. And, to be fair, under no circumstances is SYRIZA alone to blame. 55% of recruitment concerns flexible forms of work. Yes, sir! You, however, said that the generation of EUR 700 - which has not been well-paid - is well enough to have such a generation, because we immediately went to today's generation, that of EUR 400 - is a lost generation. The 400 euros, what is it? The throat that comes in the next few years for our youth and which you have a share of responsibility, and what is it? We would very much like you to tell us. We would also like you to tell us about the symbolic, for you - Greek, for the fourteen regional airports, PPA, PLTH, TRAINOSE, ELPE, PPC, ports, ELTA, all that you have sold out, Egnatia Road, etc. The memorials have therefore proved to be disastrous both in the national, social and economic sectors. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Because the time is running out, since we are talking about numbers, let us say that four hundred thousand young graduates have left, of which Greece is losing only 9.1 billion euros. They contribute to the GDP of the countries in which EUR 12.9 billion has been installed. The numbers are very interesting. These people working abroad offer the GDP of countries hosting them EUR 50 billion. You want to replace this - and you are already doing so to a certain extent - with illegal immigrants. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The Panhellenic Committee of the Tritecnian Union denounces and I read it out: "For once again, the government has demonstrated that it operates as an executive body of specific circles of the European Union, which does not want to solve the demographic problem of our country. He does not want births of Greeks." That's how third parties write and they're absolutely right. We read yesterday the letter of a child he wanted from Santa Claus - guess - food for his family! That's where you've made the world. The Greeks, however, are not awkward. They don't want your benefits. Work they want. They don't want to be with a head on. They want to be with their heads high, working to provide their children and their family with the necessary things. The day before yesterday, a father of three children, unemployed, told me that he had gone to the supermarket to shop - the basics, of course - and paid for coins and next to another illegal immigrant, had a wheelchair full of beers and drinks and paid for coupons from the state and NGOs. That's our humiliation. In fact, there has been a lot of talk of a statement by a European who said the normal thing, namely that the countries of the European Union have the opportunity to choose whether or not to accept illegal immigrants in their home countries. What's more normal? This man, in fact, is from a country, Poland, which has only accepted twelve refugees. So many of us would have no objection to accepting. Hungary and the Czech Republic have not accepted anyone. That's it. These are the countries that have not heard Allah Akbar in their home country because they have a very strict policy in this area. That should be Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u169	Please, please, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u170	One second, Mr President. I would also like to read a statement by Mr Avramopoulos, which Mr Balafas welcomed here. Here's what Mr. Avramopoulos said to understand what solidarity means. He said that 'the European Union is based on solidarity and solidarity is not a card, and what Mr Tusk said is inconsistent with the European Union'. It goes hand in hand and it goes hand in hand. We will not fill Europe with illegal immigrants. The states do well and guard their borders, as Greeks should. Because I hear some other pasochians and neo-democrats talking about economy, let them clarify the finances of their own parties, which owe 400 million to banks, money from the Greek people, let us tell us forty years what happened to the party in all the public institutions, when they were government, and then to talk about economy. Fortunately, however, soon the Golden Dawn time is coming and all this will be over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u171	Mr Sarakiotis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u172	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, while listening to the previous period of time and all these three days, the officials of the bankrupt parties of the Anti-Fraud and PASOK talking about development and progress, the phrase of Albert Einstein came to my mind: 'Two things are infinite, the universe and human stupidity'. I think that if he listened to the officials of the New Democracy and PASOK, he would certainly add the courage, the disgusted courage that these people have, who destroyed the country, went bankrupt, created the Rusphetian state, to come and talk to us today about growth. Those who owe to anyone speaking Greek, from the NOTE Evros treatments for uninsured work, for unpaid work, until the eviction of the PASOK offices in Heraklion, from one corner of the country to the other, come to talk to us and move our finger. So apply what you have learned to us in universities, save your bald parties and then deal with the country. I shall now come to the debate. The State Budget for the financial year 2018 is the birthday act of the Memorandum of Greece. It recommends the latest budget for fiscal adjustment and healing of the deep wounds that have caused forty years of corruption, interoperable and nepotism in the body of Greek society. It puts an end to the years of the hardship commission, as much as the weights, Gerun, and if they are heard. It marks the end of a long course of sacrifices of the Greek people and, instead of honoring these sacrifices, it prefers to sway on them. How much caves and undermining, how much micro-believability and deposition of micro-policy, which are unfortunately gigantic about the successes of this government. The budgetary targets are expected to be over-covered in 2018 with the reliability of what is budgeted to be verified by the same financial results of this year and last year, which led European and American high-ranking officials to speak about our country's return and the final end of the memoranda in August 2018. What, then, is foreseen for the 2018 financial year and what acquis this year is based on? The growth rate for 2017 is expected to be close to 1.6% of GDP with a primary surplus of 2.4%, including EUR 1.4 billion for the social dividend, the return of reservations to pensioners, as well as the payment of the YOHs to PPC. For 2018, the above indicators will be established at 2.5% and 3.8% of GDP respectively. Let us make it clear here that an essential shaping component of the economic environment is psychology. Without a doubt, the improvement of the economic climate, the lifting of uncertainty, the stabilisation of the banking system and the gradual entry of our country into international financial markets are safe conditions for achieving the objectives. In fact, the stabilisation and development of the economy now enables social protection measures to be taken and social benefits to be extended, while reducing tax rates on households and businesses. The allocation of this year's social dividend, with its doubling over 2016, proves the truth. Private consumption is expected to contribute 1.2% to real GDP instead of 0.9% this year, which is supported by the more rapid growth in employment and the continuing decline in unemployment. Private investment is projected to increase by 11.4% compared to 5.1% this year, due to the more favourable investment environment on the basis of the reforms being implemented and the increase in demand. Unemployment will be set at 18.4% instead of the planned closure at 19.9% this year. This is obviously far from the splendid achievement of 27% of the governments of New Democracy and PASOK. With the smooth development of the support programme through the ESM until its completion in August 2018, the uninterrupted transition to international financial markets, with the implementation of medium-term measures to ensure the sustainability of the public debt, Greece will disprove those who predicted the chaos and the government will give a strong response to those who have invested their political future in the destruction of our country. I now come to the criticism and proposals from the New Democracy, which focus primarily on further reductions in expenditure. You say in particular that "we will change the policy mix with reduced taxes and a mixture of costs". Fortunately, you do not add, "as we did in 2012-2014". You refer to reductions in public payroll costs. To whom, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, are you referring? Doctors, ESS nurses, teachers, teachers, security officers? Identify where at last. After you took them off financially, you come to us now and you blame us for having stopped reducing the wages already reduced and you are proposing to further cut them down. You! You who are otherwise defenders of the middle class and do not recognize that these people are also the middle class. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] You are making accusations that we are not cutting costs and that we are galantic and imply our commitment to keeping the social state up, which the workers built with their sacrifices. We are struggling for the stay of young people at home and will fight with them for a better tomorrow. But that is not going to happen without conditions of social justice, transparency and equality. This new page spins with this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u173	Thank you. Mr Theodoros Karaoglu has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u174	Ladies and gentlemen, the 2018 budget is essentially 'necessary'. Of course, I'm putting the word in quotes and I don't want you to take it as a compliment, because it's obviously not my intention. Explaining it, I mean, we really don't know where to catch him. In fact, six are his main features. Firstly, it is a fake budget, that is a false budget, a second feature of which is that it is over-estimated, third-centre, fourth anti-development, fifth characteristic of which is that it is socially unfair, socially unaltered and its sixth characteristic is that it brings new austerity measures, excessive austerity measures, I would say. In detail now. It's a make-up, it's a fake, because it works as a make-up news. It has a short-sighted communication targeting, just to serve temporarily the account of coexistence about supposedly economic success story. You know, the government living in the real world and seeing all kinds of failures, the problems of society, which are real and very large, escapes, builds another, fake, parallel world and within this parallel world of imagination has successes. The second feature of the budget is that it is over-estimated, because it is obvious that the objective for primary surpluses of 3.57% of GDP or just about 7 billion is simply not coming out, as is the target for growth of 2.5% of GDP. I would also like to remind you that the 2017 budget, which ends in a few days, predicted a 2.7% growth. The draft budget for 2018 says that we will eventually close with 1.6%, but, based on the figures for the third quarter of 2017 and on the first nine months of 2017, it is clear that if we finally close with growth for 2017 of 1.3% or 1.4%, we should celebrate. Failed to 50% in forecasts for 2017, then. Obviously, it is not a good script for what awaits us as regards your development forecasts for 2018. Third feature. He is a tax-center, because through unfair indirect taxes he will strike even more incomes of employees, pensioners, free traders. In particular, the 2018 budget provides for an increase in State revenues of 2,1 billion compared to the 2017 budget, of which 1,1 billion directly relate to households. I'm specializing. It provides: First, increases in personal income tax, plus EUR 456 million. Secondly, an increase in ENPIA and property taxes, plus EUR 179 million. Thirdly, an increase in indirect taxes, namely VAT and excise duties, in the most unfair taxes, plus EUR 517 million. In other words, there is a total household burden of 1,152,000,000 euros. Fourth feature. He's anti-developmental. Let me remind you - I have already mentioned this - that the 2017 budget predicted a 2.7% growth, and the 2018 budget provides for a lesser growth of 2.5%. It does not promote reforms, it does not promote demilitarisation, it does not promote changes that the place needs. In addition to this, two main tools for the development of the budget, the Public Investment Programme and taxation policy are both hostile to the economic climate and investment in general. We have a programme for public investment which, for three years, has been around 6.5 billion, very low, and, unfortunately, is not being implemented as a whole either. In other words, the Public Investment Programme is being subordinated. Of course, we also have a very high tax, which actually acts as an investment incentive. Recently, the OECD report ranked us as a champion country in taxation, among others, thirty-five European countries. In particular, taxes for 2016 were 53,1 billion. In 2017, while the target was even greater, we finally caught just 52.1 billion, that is, a billion less, and for 2018 the budget provides for 54.2 billion. But, ladies and gentlemen, we have now come to the point 'wick if you get it rather than have it.' Unfortunately, the evidence just announced confirms what? That from a people who no longer have to give, unfortunately, continuously, every month, public debts to the public go up. They have already reached and exceeds 100 billion. So is the insurance agencies, which are at 30 billion. That is, cumulatively, the citizen owes the public, whether for taxes or for insurance agencies, EUR 130 billion. Fifth feature. The 2018 budget, dear colleagues and colleagues, is socially unfair, it is socially unaltered. You know, there's a myth, which is just a myth, which says the Left is a political space that is friendly to the social state, social care, social cohesion. On the basis of the figures, however, in the 2018 budget, it turns out that this is just a myth. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] What do we see in the 2018 budget? Reduction of social costs by 1.6 billion or about 8% over last year. In particular, the 2017 budget provided for 21,037,000 social expenditure, while the 2018 budget provides for 19,488,000. So we will have a reduction in social protection, social care, and total social cohesion expenditure. Therefore, in this case, after we revealed that the Left is a myth for the social state, it is the saying of the great French politician Zishkar d'Estain: "The Left loves so much the poor, who constantly creates more." This is the truth, unfortunately, for you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u175	Finish it, Mr. Comrade. You've already taken a minute more.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u176	You have given the previous speakers more time, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u177	Leave the previous ones alone. Maybe the next ones have a word on what you're saying right now. Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u178	The sixth feature of the budget is the new austerity measures. The 2018 budget brings new austerity measures amounting to 1,86 billion. This is the third consecutive year you bring budgets, three to three, and each year you bring new austerity measures. It is a total of fifteen of these new measures, of which I stand at the top of the five, because of the limited amount of time. First, a cut in the EPC. In fact, it involves a hundred forty thousand retired people who will lose the CSCE after twenty-two years of its implementation. Secondly, the abolition of a tax exemption from medical expenses. It concerns more than two million citizens. Thirdly, abolishing a 1.5% reduction in tax on the retention of employees and retired persons. Fourthly, a 50% reduction in the heating allowance. This is particularly about us in the North of the Elderly, because it is quite simply climatic conditions that are much more difficult. What I must point out is that in 2014 the budget provided expenditure for a heating allowance of 212 million and in three years you went to 47 million, by 3/4 less. And the fifth measure of austerity is the abolition of reduced VAT on the islands, on thirty-two islands of the north-eastern Aegean, which is also unfair and unconstitutional. In conclusion, when true history takes the pen to write its judgment regarding your own governance, I assure you that the pages that will be dedicated to you and your prose will be black, as are the days that the Greek society experiences. The hope that you were evangelizing became a blade that reaps to screaming and ruthless dreams and expectations. And this left drama that we are experiencing is reflected in the budget, which, it goes without saying, is voting against and, of course, is fighting, because 2018 will be the year of real change, it will be the year of elections. In short, your breads are over. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u179	The next speaker is Mr Tassos from the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u180	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, as well as other urban parties, every year our country is affected by natural and technological disasters, floods, earthquakes, fires, environmental pollution, and every time these disasters are attributed to the extreme natural phenomena, see floods, or at bad time, see "Agia ZONI II". We ask and we answer: Why is the earth a merchandise? Why is it for every 11 acres that burn only one reafforestates? Because on the burnt land, villas grow like mushrooms and designs are being made for the construction of luxury hotels, golf establishments, etc.Huh? Why by law were seventy million acres of forest land declassified, arming the arsonists' hand? Why are other laws declassifying pastures? Why are thousands of ships moving, all ages, types and sizes with seafarers working in terrible conditions, with reduced compositions and low wages? Why do rots travel with dubious certificates of airworthiness from private classifications without a plan to deal with large-scale accidents by the state? Why is the reduction of 30% VAT on the Aegean islands, which was conquered in struggles? Why are earthquakemakers in Lesvos and Kos being invited to pay ENVIA? The answer is simple. Because this is how the profitability of big capital is served and resources are transferred from the many producers of wealth, workers and populace to the few parasites. We are asking again why the rapid visual control of about 85% of the ninety thousand public buildings in the country has not taken place since the 1999 earthquake? Why has 30% of the buildings not been restored immediately, from 15% already checked and found to require immediate action? Why are there not associated dams and an adequate network of rainwater? Why are there only 80 million euros available for projects of rain and flood protection by 2023, just 7.15 % of the EUR 1 billion provided for by the Attica MAGP, prepared by the Douro administration? Why are fire zones not being built and the fire department not being adequately equipped? Why are veterinary services not adequately managed for quick and effective control and substantial assistance to the farmer? Why are no lower guaranteed prices and direct absorption of lamb and milk products? Why is not all the farmers who have been killed or died from the blessing for all the time until the herd has been reconstituted? Why four months after the earthquake in Lesvos thirty to forty beneficiaries of some four hundred have not yet received the EUR 580 aid, while no one has taken a euro of the 5,000 euros planned for the construction allowance? The answer is a simple one again. As these costs are non-productive for the profitability of the large capital. However, the immediate result of the barbaric capitalist system is also the wave of refugees and immigrants. We do not make a distinction between refugees and immigrants, because the refugees are persecuted by the imperialist war and immigrants by imperialist peace. And refugees and immigrants travel together, using the same migration routes, drown in the same seas in their attempt to reach Europe or elsewhere, they are victims of the same human trafficking rings, experience the same human rights violations in their transition or destination countries. And how does the civilised and democratic Europe treat the refugees and immigrants that it has created? Like another tool in the hands of the bourgeoisie. When they want to renew the economically active population, find new cheap labour, hit the leftovers of the workers, then resort to world civilization and their integration into the capitalist economy and organize the host fissures, as Merkel did at the check of the German industrialists in 2015 and accepted about a million refugees and immigrants. If they do not need them, but also those who need them, they do not want them all at the same time, that is to say they want to blink the string in their choices, they create detention and sorting centres, hot spots, which, at the same time, are used as a deterrent method to bring refugees and immigrants into line with the unacceptable European Union and Turkey agreement. The problems created and the local population are exploited by the Nazi criminal organization of the Golden Dawn to sow the racist hatred. We call for the double decapitation of refugees and immigrants and for them to be given papers to go to the countries of their choice. To be directly detached from the islands and it is the state's responsibility to deal with this matter. In any case, those who live on the islands live in human conditions. The cynical confession by the relevant Minister, Giannis Muzala, that he does not guarantee that there will be no dead from the cold in Moria, shows exactly the size of the problem and the government's responsibility. So it is not the extreme natural phenomena for the intensity of the problems of natural and technological disasters, but your policy, which objectively, regardless of intentions and differences in the mixture, is an extreme class phenomenon, which badly affects workers and peoples. Because capitalism, which today's government serves better than anyone else - and that is why the 'bravo' and the awards you are constantly receiving - on the altar of the profits of a handful of parasites is smashing the workers and popular strata and leaving them unprotected by the floods, earthquakes and fires and creates the causes of natural and technological disasters, as well as wars and refugee. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. In order to bring about normality in the lives of workers and peoples, so that they can benefit from the progress of science and technology, by reducing working hours and increasing leisure time, so that they can rejoice in the wealth they produce, covering their modern needs for safe and quality housing, work, sport, transport, entertainment, etc., harmoniously combining the coverage of these needs with the protection of public health, safety and the environment, protection against natural and technological disasters, but also equal and mutually beneficial cooperation between the peoples, without exploitation, poverty, war and refugee, there should be a total overthrow by workers and people in this policy. And that, whether you want it or not, sooner or later it'll happen. Our responsibility is to do everything in our power so that this can be done as quickly as possible. Tomorrow, everyone in the strike and concentration of PAME. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u181	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, thirty-two students and students and two educational attendants from Kymnassia High School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The Minister for Culture and Sport has the floor, Mr Connordou.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u182	I would like to put forward the main policies and objectives that were in place last year, but they will also apply to 2018: savings of resources, rationalisation of the functioning of the agencies and maximum use of resources, fairer distribution in the territory, growing a broader spirit of cooperation, extroversion, emphasis on youth creation and employment, linking culture with sustainable development with respect for the environment. For 2018, the budget of the Ministry of Culture and Sport, regular and Public Investment, extends to the same levels as in 2017. The budget appropriations proposed for approval are expected to be added and the yield of 40% of the EDF's cash reserves, as they will be shaped at the end of the year. With regard to the regular budget, the appropriations mainly relate to the provision of arrogance expenditure both from the central agency and the special regional services from the public museums and from the supervising bodies of the Ministry of Culture, at around 80% to 85%. The rest is directed towards actions of the Ministry concerning both archaeological works for the promotion, restoration and promotion and actions of contemporary culture. We are developing the issue of 'fair distribution of resources, savings and rationalisation'. Regardless of whether it is funding for services or grants to entities, the aim is to broaden and strengthen actions and more regions, on the basis of the potential to target the cultural product by creating synergies at local, national and international levels. At the same time, the effectiveness of this policy will also depend on the absorption, which will be achieved by each unit financed or subsidised. The broadness of this policy is not one-sided, but also sectoral. The main objective of the allocation of resources is to share between archaeological works and contemporary culture after evaluation by the competent authorities, on the basis of proposals that have already been submitted or will be submitted in the near future. The aim is, in addition to the promotion of cultural heritage, material and intangible, and the strengthening of the actions of modern culture and of supervised actors, the strengthening of regional bodies, the reform of the PPC by formulating the new programme. Also, according to Elytis "in this place, the small, the great" has already developed a programme called "Small Greece" which provides for a new way of allocating resources to the players active in the region: clubs, clubs, organisations, etc., with an open invitation to include new actors in this programme. The inventory, evaluation and update of the data available to the Ministry has already been completed. Last year, the institution of grants, which had stopped traumatically in 2011, was reactivated with disastrous consequences for the theatre and dance area. Apart from grants, which will continue next year, a specific code for theatre was established, with the aim of extending this process to other fields of art. We are developing and cultivating the spirit of cooperation. With the failure of the Ministry of Culture to manage ESDP programmes, we are developing very good cooperation with the regions, with other ministries, with municipalities and with actors, as well as with civil society actors. We are developing partnerships between the centres and the region. We are developing new creations and strengthening existing networks that highlight the particular dynamics and identity of each region and thus contribute to the savings of resources and the enhancement of local society and economy. Also, we refer to the combination of the three museums in Thessaloniki. On extroverty, three memos have already been signed in 2017 with Russia, China and Cyprus to promote exchanges, mainly in translation and literature, cinema and other activities. There has also been a preparation for cultural exchanges with Italy, France and Serbia, which are already active with co-productions and cooperation in 2018. There is also a strengthening of the Hellenic Foundation for Culture to serve the book on translations, based on these memoranda, and on international exhibitions. Our aim is to create a separate, flexible body for the book when budgetary conditions allow it. It also promotes modern creation abroad, in the context of exchanges. We place great emphasis on youth creation at all its stages. We provide educational training courses, such as the "Net of Ancient Drama", the program "Open Doors, from Provas to Tennis", which concerns newly emerging creators, held in the Concert Hall of Music and the Municipal Municipalities of Piraeus. It is also planned to extend it to Thessaloniki. ACROPOL provides for the immediate completion of the final work, delivery and use of the building for the development of a hive of youth creativity in a variety of actions and arts. The development of programmes is generally planned, with emphasis on supporting the creation of young artists, training young people in traditional arts who tend to disappear, promoting a social character. As far as development is concerned, the resources secured by visitability will be channelled through actions of the Ministry of Culture and Sport through its services, as well as through publications, exhibitions, educational programmes, sellers, refreshments. The adoption of up-to-date practices on visitability with online ticket, education, creation and innovation will create the framework within which a self-financed mechanism for the promotion, promotion, attraction and all kinds of local, national and international visitability will act.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u183	When will the online ticket be applied?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u184	Immediately sign the contract. Thank you for the question. Apart from the online ticket, priority will be given to the reopening of the refreshments, which have remained closed, the enrichment of sales with a variety of items and publications. Most of all, there will be a connection between refreshments and shops with local quality products and objects from artists and craftsmen who continue traditional arts. This will strengthen local communities and the economies and employment of young people. There has been a great deal of work in the rationalisation of the bodies, in terms of the reduction and regulation of debts in the Lykian, the Megaron, almost all of the institutions of Thessaloniki, the Concert Hall of Thessaloniki, the State Orchestra, the State Theatre of Northern Greece, the Film Festival, the State Museum, the Macedonian Museum, the Museum of Photography, the State Conservation of Thessaloniki. A further grant has been granted to the EMS because it enters the final straight into 2018 to officially operate. Also at the National Theatre. I would also like to give some indicative amounts of interest. Compared to 2014 the initial distribution, mostly in modern culture, was 44,664,000, with a final shape of 47,199,000. In 2017 the initial distribution was 52,930,000, almost 53,000, with a final configuration of 71,000. The forecast for 2018 is 53 million, with a final formulation of 75 million, based on forecasts. Finally, we are making maximum use of resources with all of this. We're increasing revenue. We highlight the potential of culture through partnerships and extroverty, while we work intensively for the international radiation and the promotion of Greek culture and, above all, we strengthen the creativity and employment of young people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u185	Mrs Fotini Vakis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u186	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to begin my speech on the budget from a comment. Listening to our colleagues - and particularly the Officerial Vice-President - I can only say this: in the late antimony suit that you have recently sewn, ladies and gentlemen, you seem to feel extremely uncomfortable. Your entire hypocritical interest in the small surpluses, in the stimulus of growth measures, in tax evasions, and so on, is all that can only cause remembrance. It is a reminder to all of us, who we still remember to applaud the surpluses of 4.5%, to rejoice on the tsunami of taxes that you have imposed, to take on the vast cuts in expenditure, which you are then, as you are now, going around as a banner. But your antimony this year, unfortunately, is confronting you. You cannot reconcile yourself with the fact that after the painful adventure of the memorials and austerity, this year's budget is the last Memorandum Budget and the first Memorandum of the period opened before us. In a few months' time, ladies and gentlemen, Greece comes from the tough troika commission, which you brought to Greece. Why is that? To make Greece an animal, to improvise or to save foreign banks, as said by the long "Geroon, strong", in whose name did you swear until recently? This government will succeed with its sword and after all this pain and ignorance of the Greek people, this adventure seems to have come to an end. In addition to your hypocritical krone, however, it is clear that the 2018 budget is being implemented in a given financial environment and indeed incorporates commitments we have not chosen, they have not always been our own options. Even in this context, however, the social dimension of the budget remains positive, but also its forecasts include elements of reciprocity and of social justice. The fair development that you are mocking about, but which is the main problem of Greece's exit from the memorials, is also present in this year's budget. And with regard to its forecasts and with regard to civil protection, the 2018 budget expands the positive footprint for 2017. Social income of solidarity: its beneficiaries are being enlarged; they are expected to reach the seven hundred thousand. The institution of school meals is also widened. It will cover 2018 a hundred thirty thousand students. In the same context, there is also ten thousand places in kindergartens, while the public education budgets are increasing for the second year, reshaping the government's will to support public schools, public universities and educational work. We have heard, ladies and gentlemen, the demands of the Anti-Population - particularly of the Officer - for tax reductions by cutting public spending. What exactly do you mean? Educational discharges, cleaners redundancies? Do you mean cancelling expenditure for the permanentisation of two thousand 32 fire extinguishers or abolishing the General Accounting Office of the State and replacing it with private accounting companies? Your obsession with these costs, which are made the Trojan horse for redundancies, is of course known and it has already been implemented with exceptional failure. We all know exactly what the workers are waiting for in the public sector, but also in those in the private sector, just as the New Democracy's recent questionnaires on its pre-conference dialogue have shown. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that the 2018 budget contains difficulties and certainly does not reflect the social dimension we would like to see. The financial framework imposed by creditors shall also have an impact on the budget. It is obvious, however, that Greece's exit from the memoranda in a few months' time will allow for a widening of tax relief, which is essential for the sustainable development of the economy. And free professionals and farmers and scientists, who are, today, pushing tax, will see, after the country's exit from the creditors' programmes, tangible improvements in their economic situation. At the same time, the growth of GDP by two and a half units, scheduled for 2018, is the basis of fair growth, and it is also the government's constant commitment to citizens. The participation of society in the development and improvement of the situation in the real economy are the real objectives of the 2018 budget. Of course, this prospect is also reinforced by the reduction of unemployment at the lowest levels since the beginning of the crisis. It supports investment by 11% and, for the second consecutive year, by increasing private consumption and purchasing power. These are the last measures that we are going through a memorial gulch. And these last measures, by the summer of 2018, seem to be finding the Vice-Presidents, especially the Officer, reluctant to accept that this government manages to change page. But no matter how much you feel...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u187	Ms. Vaki, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u188	Just a minute, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u189	You've already taken a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u190	You have shown tolerance to the previous ones. However, even though opposition feels embarrassed and resorts to cries of danger, so society is removed from it. The citizens are well aware, ladies and gentlemen, that those who have undermined their future cannot now be their saviours. With him, then, the last budget of the Memorandum is putting an end to an adventure that hurt the country and the next day is a day of social justice, fair growth and hope. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u191	Mr. Koukodemos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u192	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the 2018 budget reveals the reality that the government is trying to hide. And reality is the hard everyday life of Greek citizens. It is the real economy, which breathes with great difficulty. No matter how optimistic you are, no matter how much you try to convince you that things about the Greek household, about the small and medium-sized enterprises and the young farmers are going well, you are being discredited by reality. The agony and daily battle that citizens are giving to bear the burden of the obligations you have loaded them is reality. At the same time that you strive with courage to mock them, with social dividends and supposedly benefits, which literally come out of one pocket and on the other, you must admit that the 2018 budget brings new taxes and cuts to households and businesses. You must admit that the 2018 budget brings new measures of EUR 1.9 billion. Indicatively: New cuts in the single wage bill. Additional cuts in pensions and family allowances. Extension of the special solidarity contribution. Residence tax. Additional charges on insurance contributions for freelance professionals. Repeal of the ESS. We all know that on Friday, retired people are gathering together in Athens to protest, because they are losing the CSCE and why two million citizens are losing the tax credit for medical expenses. You have finally admitted that there are historically twenty-seven new taxes and twenty-seven reductions in pensions and social allowances. So where does this optimism come from? Last year the government in the state budget claimed that the country would achieve a growth rate of 2.7% this year and a primary surplus of 2% of GDP. Today, we know that growth will be much lower, i.e. 1.6%. In addition, the evidence presented by the financial staff shows the negative impact on the revenues from overtaxation. Since the year 2018, then, new measures are entering our lives, amounting to EUR 1.9 billion, which are already adopted, concern new taxes and charges and a series of cuts. For example, I would mention the abolition of the reduced VAT on thirty two islands, the increase in professional contributions, the abolition of all tax exemptions, the 50% reduction in the budget for heating oil allowances, the abolition of any other allowance for socially-income solidarity beneficiaries, the imposition of a fee for hotels and rental rooms, the imposition of a tax on short-term rents of real estate. And while all this is happening in the real economy, the government is proud to have achieved its budgetary objectives. How did he do it, though? With ruthless tax and insurance aggression on the citizens, with cuts, cuts, loopholes on the neck of small and medium-sized enterprises, with a conscious governmental choice on the forced recovery measures to a million citizens and an expanded internal payment stop. What you still do not realize is that people's burden-sharing capacity has been exhausted, since their total dues to tax and insurance funds have now reached EUR 130 billion, increased by EUR 45 billion since 2014. Ladies and gentlemen, the 2018 budget is described as a tax raid and focuses on austerity. The reason is that it does not promote reforms, it does not attract new investments and therefore new jobs. It does not address the state's cumulated debts to private individuals. It increases the public debt, which the SYRIZA - ANEL government supposedly erased as magically. It is a centralised budget, which, by direct or indirect taxes, affects the incomes of Greek citizens. The worst of all is that this budget, the third in turn of your Government, is a budget based on the same failed recipe, which leads more and more Greeks to poverty with painful and unjust measures, to a society and to citizens who shout with anguish that they can no longer stand. They've exhausted their strengths. Mr President, I am voting against the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u193	Thank you very much to Mr Koukodemos and to the time economy. Mr. Chogas has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u194	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the budget for 2018 is historic because it marks the passage into the history of one of its most recent pages, the page pages of the memorandum, a time that will remind the sacrifices of the Greek people, the grabbing of their property and the violation of individual and social rights. The budget, frustrating hysterical destructive fans, is balanced, with primary surpluses and positive growth rates. It is clear that we move away from the economic ruin that the country was in when we received its governance from New Democracy and PASOK and the exit from the memoranda is closer than ever. The budget presented by the government for 2018 is the culmination of a great effort. It's a market budget, a convict from the storm of the Memorandum Requirements. It aims at the full stabilisation of the Greek economy, the normalization of public finances and the return to normality, with provision for growth, not stiff growth such as that of your own, gentlemen of the New Democracy, 2014, when with the aim of 1.5% you have achieved 0.30%. With the 10-year bonds in October at 8%, with agreements on primary extinction surpluses of 3% in 2015, instead of 0,25% in 2016, 4.55% in 2016, instead of 1.55% in 2017, instead of 1.75%, 4.2%, instead of 3.55%. In other words, about 20 billion more would be required if this policy were implemented. Of course you have an argument here. You bet everything on the left parentheses, so relaxed. Today, more than two years later, we can say that we are stepping on our feet. We look forward to better days, since key productive sectors of the economy have institutional changes, turning the carpet to exit the markets with predictions of 14% growth and a primary surplus of 3.82% for 2018, that is, beyond the 3.5% target without horizontal cuts in wages and pensions, but with the strengthening of vulnerable social groups and a continuous decline in unemployment. We have an increase in employment. In fact, the nine months of January - November 2017 closed with a hundred twenty-eight thousand new jobs, which is the highest in the year 2012. In 2017 we had a GDP growth of 0.4% in the first quarter, 1.6% in the second and 1.3% in the third, based on the provisional figures, which may be revised upwards. We have achieved an increase of 18% annually for the first half of 2017 in exports, which is recorded as the highest level of the last decade. Foreign direct investment, very substantial for the economy, exceeded EUR 2.1 billion in the first seven months of 2017, increasing by 161% compared to the corresponding seven months of 2016. The yields of all bond categories are at the autumn 2009 levels, literally at the pre-crisis levels, with ten years falling below the 5% threshold, positively signalling the evolution of the economy. Unemployment fell to 21% from 27%, to which it was only three years ago, and the results so far are particularly encouraging, with the unemployment rate estimated to be below 20% for 2018. The implementation of the CRL, amounting to EUR 720 million, has helped improve the living conditions of vulnerable groups, alleviating thousands of Greek households living in extreme poverty. Contrary to what is written about cuts in pre-school benefits, the 2018 budget provides for savings of about EUR 260 million, by reviewing the expenditure, which will be allocated to supporting family allowances, school meals, nurseries, with an increase from 650 million to 910 million. This broadens income scales for the weakest households, which means that families with one and two children, that is about six hundred and two thousand families in a total of eight hundred four thousand, will receive increased family allowances of 57% -110%. EUR 15 million will be allocated for the extension of nurseries, the number of which will be increased by four hundred new units in 2018. Ladies and gentlemen, seven years later the Gordian link of the painful measures that contained severe cuts in pay and pensions, bloody tax burdens, break-up of labour relations, vertical impoverishment of the weak social groups, death spirals for vulnerable people is cut. On the contrary, through narrow and suffocating budgetary margins, we do not improvise, but we find the way strategically to plan interventions that will keep society up and not bend the weight of pessimism for the future, so that we can get the passage from the crisis to recovery, which already measures the first results. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] A little more time, Mr President. All of this required political seriousness, responsibility, transparency and a hard effort to avoid losing hope in the wind, but to turn the page to progress and social well-being. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u195	Mr Cremastino has the floor from the Democratic Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u196	Thank you, Mr President. The world over the years, which has called them'memorandum years', hopes that the next budget will be better than the one who lives, namely the previous one. And he's disgusting. His last hope, then, is that the next one, because he will be called "memorandum", will be better. It is his last hope, because, given the weaknesses of the political system, which the parties cannot - even those called 'European arch' - agree with each other on what the single line will be from the deadlock, given that today's justice gives the impression that she is interested in herself first and foremost and secondly in all others - matters of wages, matters 'possibly' - given that the media are said to be primarily interested in the interests of their owners and less in all other problems, you realise that the world believes that things are not going well and that the country is facing a dead end. Is he right? And why am I saying that? We have ever wondered why in 2010 the markets ceased to trust Greece and borrow it, which - if I am not mistaken - had EUR 320 billion in debt, while Italy at the same time had a debt of about EUR 2.5 trillion - and America has a multiple debt of EUR 20 trillion - and Japan itself? Has anyone ever thought of cutting off lending these countries? Have we wondered? This has happened because, unfortunately, no one from our country has hoped for anything. Production was zero, we had very limited exports, and we actually lived from borrowers. We said, then, that we have EUR 320 billion in debt and that we are stopping this far. And the great problem of the memorials began, memorials which each party or each Prime Minister promised to overcome with his own plan. And, of course, disappointment was great when he came to power and his plan to get out of the memorials - at least what he promised in the world - did not pay off. And today where are we? We still have capital controls, although the first ministers every six months said they would be lifted. Now they don't know when they'll be lifted. Do you know any country to prosper, develop with capital control? I, at least, don't know any country. How will investors trust to bring their money when we tell them that we will not keep it - that is, we will block them, as happened with the previous ones - since there is already the block of the former ones? Will the other one easily bring his money here and not take it to a safer market? These are problems that are not easily overcome. There is no production, there are no substantial exports, but the worst is that there is no prospect. Because the prospect is not that the debt may be restructured. All right, the debt's going to be restructured. The problem is not the absolute number of debts. The problem is market confidence, investor confidence. And with all that evidence, trust is not guaranteed. When I was chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs and asked Olli Rehn, who was then responsible for the economy and European exchange policy, he said to me: 'Your problem is your political system'. ‘Why?’ I asked him. Then it was a hundred and sixty-five Members, now it's a hundred fifty three who vote, with pain, as they say, but they vote, like the previous ones, of course. "Why..." - tells me - "How can the investor come to invest, when he knows that even the Minister - not the party itself - changes the development law? How can the investor come to invest when the other party says that when he comes to power he will do the opposite?" So, you realize that the people who tell us these things are right. We, unfortunately, do not want to understand them. And not only do we not want to understand them, but it also blames each other, which is the worst of all, and we now give the impression that we are not a serious state. From the leadership of Portugal, one is the Secretary-General of the UN and the other - the former Minister of Finance - is the President of the Eurogroup. What do we do? Doesn't any of the three hundred of us wonder what's going on in this country? Unfortunately, the solution is one. One way has to be found - I said it from this position in 2010, and then I considered heretic - to become a government which is a government that implements a single programme. I don't care who the Prime Minister is. It must, however, have a single credibility programme, so that our unfortunate citizens do not expect that wages and pensions will not be reduced again and tax will not be increased. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the First Vice-President of the Parliament is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. If there is no growth - whether the memorandum is over or not - the measures that will come will be worse. We must not disorientate the world. No party should disorientate it, because it is not a period of time to look for it in 1909. It's been these years and they're not coming back. But the responsibility lies with the Prime Minister and the President of the Republic - because the President of the Republic himself, according to the Constitution, cannot take the initiative - to move in this direction, to achieve the self-evident impression, to give the impression that we are a serious country.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u197	Mr. Mikopoulou has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u198	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, while following the public debate over the last few months, but listening carefully to the positions of the Vice-Presidents in the last few days in relation to the debate on the state budget, it has been my impression that two images have been colluded. One picture is optimism that is shaped abroad by Europe's main factors, but also the wider international environment, and the other is a devastation picture that is shaped by Anti-Population, assisted by some television media. In my opinion, there is a qualitative difference between these two images. The optimistic picture of Europe does not shape Die Linke or the Black Left in Portugal. It is formed by the Commission, by Eurogroup, by international rating agencies, large-circuit publications, international media. What picture corresponds to the reality? The one that is shaped by these traits in Europe and the rest of the world or by the image that Antipopulation, assisted by some means, is trying to present to the Greek people? I think that this quality element must concern us all, and the Coupling and Opposition. In my opinion, in order to place today's debate on its real dimension, I think we should first evaluate the stations through which the state budget implementation debate was described. The first station is about the fact that we have the closure of the third assessment in time and without additional budgetary measures. Secondly, we have a positive growth rate for the Greek economy for a third consecutive quarter. The substance is not the height, i.e. 2.3% or 2.4%. The point is that for a third consecutive quarter we have positive developmental orbit. It's a reality. Let's assess it. The third point concerns the successful exit on the markets. I heard from the opposition that the interest rate was high. But you have distinguished economists. Is Greece's problem right now at the rate, or have smooth and unfeasible access to international borrowing markets? The fourth point is the successful bond exchange over 85%, the so-called'swap', with the expected benefits of short-term debt measures estimated at 25% of GDP by 2060, instead of 20% originally calculated. With regard to the social dividend, this is expected to be twice as high as in 2016, with the Greek economy catching budgetary targets for the third consecutive year. We have positive reports from the institutions and international organisations based on the real results of the Greek economy, the performance of the ten-year Greek bond in historically low. These are the features that form the debate over the last few days and we must assess them, ladies and gentlemen, of the Civilian Representation Officer. No one's blinding and no one's celebrating. We know very well that a large part of the Greek society is lifting enormous weight on our own governance. That's a reality. The 2018 budget is another difficult budget determined by the economic environment, international relations and, of course, the budgetary restrictions that our country is facing. The budgetary target for 2018 is indeed higher. But it is realistic and we are talking about a primary surplus of 3.5% of GDP. Can we make a comparison with the agreements you had on the coexistence of Samara and Venizelos? What was the target by 2025? Was it 4.5% if I'm not cheating? Why are we being accused today? About getting lower surpluses? And you know very well what a low primary surplus means in the real economy. I would stress that we will have the publication of the list of government-suppliers through the Independent Public Revenue Authority, which is a very important development. We all know and we all agree that the fight against tax evasion and tax evasion creates a financial area for reducing tax rates, which means fairer distribution of tax burdens. Ladies and gentlemen, the environment in which we are called upon to implement the budgetary objective for a primary surplus of 3.5% of GDP is greatly improved in relation to the previous years. This has contributed to overcoming the budgetary targets over the past three years. This overrun also gave the country the upgrade of all credit rating houses a year earlier than expected. I therefore believe, ladies and gentlemen, that the continuous improvement of the economy, economic recovery, the reduction of unemployment, the fight against tax evasion, the further expansion of electronic transactions will strengthen public revenue and help achieve this budgetary objective, which was also reflected in public revenue in 2017 by overcompensating the primary surplus and doubling the social dividend. Ladies and gentlemen, we are very well aware that the budgetary area under which we are called upon to draw up a national strategy and produce a policy is, once again, limited. And we owe it as a political system - I am not just speaking on the part of the Coupling - to discover all those strategic advantages that this country has - and has a lot - and to use them in order to create added value. It is already done with the high absorptions observed in the ESRB programmes, with the increase in the Public Investment Programs, with the policies developed by the Ministry of Digital Policy, such as the latest with the establishment of the Greek Space Agency. I regret to note that in the past few days, a large member of the New Democracy has noted that the New Democracy programme is also the abolition of agencies. One of these organisations is the Greek Space Agency. In other words, this is how New Democracy perceives innovation and development, to abolish something that can produce added value, can cause and attract scientists from abroad in our country, Greek scientists. Ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning of my speech, I spoke about the welfare of numbers. But we cannot talk about an integrated social policy if the welfare of numbers is not accompanied by the well-being of people. I would like to mention the example of Magnesia, which, despite the fact that unemployment is actually falling, still in Magnesia - up to now we are talking about - is recording the highest percentage in Greece. There is a low investment activity. We are not going to win the page changing bet for this country if the welfare of numbers is not accompanied by the welfare of people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u199	Mr Davakis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u200	Ladies and gentlemen, for the last three days I have heard my fellow Members say that the budget for 2018 is the last Memorandum of Understanding. Indeed, a new colleague called him "the birthday act of Memorandum Greece". Nice! But what does that mean, ladies and gentlemen? What does it mean to our unemployed compatriot today, what does it mean to the small- and medium-sized one, what does it mean to the pensioner, the farmer, what does it mean to people who have been winter for ten years? In any case, all that you say and addressed to the Greek people must be subject to sensitivity and respect for the intelligence of the Greek people and all those who have lived for so many years. We cannot say that it is the last Memorandum of Understanding, when our country is located - especially for the three years that you have been ruling - in this situation. To say that the budget is approaching reality, it should be governed by three specific principles: The first principle is the productive reconstruction of our country. The situation in the real economy, as it is today, is totally disappointing. The course of all productivity indicators is considerably lacking, strangling any real development perspective. Unemployment, as was said before by a government colleague, from 27% to 21%, without telling us what indicator this is and what kind of work programme they are today showing that they have reduced unemployment. So you realise that with twenty-seven new taxes brought by you, we cannot talk about productive reconstruction in our country. I leave what is happening in the field of primary production. Keep increasing the taxation of farmers and agricultural parcels - while you were saying three years ago, by election - you reduce the reimbursement of excise duty on agricultural oil or you are late to yield it and there is, and continue and maintain the increased cost of raw materials, supplies and fertilisers, pesticides, etc. In the case of the United Kingdom, there is no doubt that, in the case of the United Kingdom, there is a need for a reduction in production. You are also stalling the notices of measures in the Rural Development Programme. Say you're a young farmer who wants to invest in agriculture. When you have agricultural production and you own land, can you with that taxation make the farmer today? And those who have been practicing the agricultural profession for decades, with this policy that you are pursuing, are preparing to leave. And while we have been accused for so many years by the country's rural operators of taxation, this ruin and storm have come from you! Also, keep an increased advance on income tax, saying the farmer has a fixed income. In other words, there is no ice for the farmer, there is no natural disaster, there is no storm, there is no wind, loss of production there is nothing! It will retain a certain income and in this income it will have a 100% tax deposit! If you were to say that in an election, I think things would be completely different. The second principle, according to which I believe that a proper budget should be approached, if you want a sound political dialogue, is the provision of robust public goods. One of these is national security. What is happening today in national security by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government? We have a Minister, Mr. Kammenos, who has in fact proved that man is inappropriate to hold that post. I understand the problem you have, but in any case, will the Prime Minister transfer it to another body of political responsibility. It is not possible, Mr Manda, in the seven dossiers - I say seven because I have formed it, because I have been following this area - which has been managed for all seven to have a zero linear effect. This man has not achieved anything in this area. The first file includes the real estate of the Armed Forces. We had voted last year on the famous F.R.D.D.D. Mr Kammenos told us that only in 2017 will we have revenue from the use of the assets of the Armed Forces of EUR 300 million - in 2017 was EUR 649 000! - and over four years - I want to hear him - we would have reached 500 to 600 million euros. Those things are not even in our dream! With regard to the second file, MOMCA, the Armed Forces Studies and Construction Unit, it has always existed. It was the 747 Mechanics Order in Loutraki, which makes various local projects. Nothing's happened. Just a contract in Anafis, building an airport. Regarding the sale of operationally unnecessarily necessary material, there is the absolute vaterlo. We are talking about Saudi Arabia, about the missiles and all that make up the'successful' policy in this area. Mr. Kammens did not reach him the market of the hundred thousand missiles that Saudi official spokesman offered. Hundreds of thousands of missiles, that is, 22 million euros, which means 4% of the armaments needs of the General Staff. So we did not get enough of that, so we went to Mr Papadopoulos to give us 66 million to the "air". As far as the defence industry is concerned, do any of the colleagues who participated - I think, Mrs Kozobol, that you were - how did she say we were going to make kalashnikov at the eagle and so forth? For ELVO, he said that investors will come from South Africa - ELVO is now being liquidated - and so forth. I do not want to talk about the absolute tragedy in the new special salary, which has not yet been implemented, of the military personnel. So much lies, so much political indulgence towards these people, who are the guardians of our national independence and territorial integrity, when still 50%, whose payment depended on sworn Minister of National Defence, has not delivered it. And we say so, because we have given the first 50% on the basis of the Council of State's decision. It is also the issue of the modernisation of the F-16s, which shows the complete curiosity of the political leadership of the Ministry of Defence. It did not have a clear picture of the costs. Yesterday's papers go up to 1,600,000 euros from 1.123,000 euros to say it is.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u201	The papers, Mr. Davaki...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u202	No, they're specific reports. Don't try to support Mr. Kammenos, Mrs. Kozobol.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u203	Mr. Davakis, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u204	And there are also the issues that have to do with the support of the institution of the family. Our country, our country, is lushed by the fleeing of the new Greeks abroad, as well as by the birth rate. So when this budget is afflicting the institution of the family, we as a New Democracy have to say that only a few people have to blush when they say that this budget is the last budget in the Memorandum of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u205	Mr. Davakis, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u206	Thirty more seconds, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u207	No, thirty. Thirty will be forty and forty a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u208	I shall conclude, Mr President. You say all the time, ladies and gentlemen, of SYRIZA and ANEL, for the 40 years. It's your permanent incubator. I think it is your political nightmare - let us call it that - because forty years you have actually been in the political margin because of the Greek people's vote. In any case, however, you must tell the Greek people the truth. You did not say that, "When you make us a government, we will say for the forty years". But you were telling them. The time of the crisis is coming. And the time of the crisis will be very hard for this government. And I think the only truth is that this is the last budget voted by the government majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u209	Mrs. Jufi has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u210	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, despite the deliberate amnesty of the Members of the New Democracy and the PASOK for the way their governments have implemented their memorandum of austerity, they are registered and confessed to their disastrous outcome with the loss of 25% of GDP, the loss of unemployment to 27%, the dramatic reduction in wages and pensions, and the burden of citizens with taxes of 30 billion, which they deliberately hide. But what is quite clear is that these programmes have deliberately led to the deforestation and deforestation of the welfare state, with cuts in real costs and services. The perception that prevailed was that every euro for social expenditure was a euro less for growth, which also did not come, that is, the classical concept of neoliberalism, which not only gave rise to the crisis, but also fuels it to a European and global level. And this, although modern perceptions and studies show exactly the opposite, that social transfers are social investment, they act as a multiplier and, according to the WHO study, the reduction of inequality by 1% in health contributes by 0.15% to GDP growth. But let us look at this, because the New Democracy is giving us a resignation. It is a surprise to me yesterday that Mrs Vultesis' position, but also other colleagues who said that we have worsened the poverty of the Greek people by 11% or 11 points. That, really, I don't know where it comes from. And that is why I will show my fellow Members, as far as possible, this diagram - there is another one - which shows that the critical year of the deterioration is in their days, with the dramatic decline of family incomes that threatened, but of course still threatens thousands of households, despite the little improvement of it recorded in 2006 after the implementation of the social solidarity income, as it refers to incomes in 2015, from 36% to 35.6%, that is by a hundred thousand people. I'm putting it down for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Merope Jufi, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] We hope that imprinting in the next measurements of 2017 and 2018, on the incomes of 2016 and 2017 with the universal implementation of the CRL, will show a better improvement in the reality of our poorest fellow citizens, coupled with the reduction of unemployment. It is clear to us, therefore, that we remain on the agenda to maintain a plan of direct social protection for a large proportion of the population, starting with the most vulnerable groups, about seven hundred thousand people. We are insisting on implementing redesigned CRLs at national climates with its three pillars, income support, automatic provision of a series of free or very cheap services and, above all, structurally, finding work for 10% of its beneficiaries so as not to be a trap of poverty. And, indeed, four thousand five hundred people have joined and we hope that they will be much more in the next programmes. We are implementing pilot projects such as Housing and Reintegration with national funds or financing with NRP funds for homeless people. We have voted countermeasures, ladies and gentlemen, for the period 2019-2020, both through child and family protection measures and to address the problems of households finding and maintaining housing. At the same time, however, because Mr Economou accused us of not having a plan and a vision, we are trying to establish a real welfare state, which will deny the previous logic of charity, founding and generalised grant support, without aiming and supporting. How does that turn out? It results from the legalisation and establishment of new structures such as: The two hundred and fifty community centres in municipalities across the country and the thirteen observatories in the regions, as a core of control and supervision. The conversion of the OGA into a single organisation, which will award all privileged allowances. The national registering of all private bodies providing social care services to better coordinate at a better level. Strengthening public welfare centres to tackle acute social problems. The co-building of networks for integrated care for the elderly, third and fourth years, for the direct treatment of emerging problems, with interconnection with primary care structures, TOMY, where the first three in Thessaloniki are inaugurated today. Efforts to resolve the major Roma issues. We are therefore trying to tackle social disparity, to implement policies of real social protection. We do not give, as ironically put you, "antidote" nor "recycle poverty". Proof of our commitment is this year's budget, where about 8% of this budget is allocated to this portfolio. We are therefore talking about an increase of 20.6% over last year and 232% since we took over. The limitation of waste in the Ministries, another important part of the social package, allowed family allowances to be rationalised, with a better perspective in 2019, targeting the most vulnerable groups, but also balancing the needs to address the problem of subnatality. The same goes for the doubling of nurseries and the funding of the 'School meals' programme, which we hope in 2018 will reach the five hundred thousand students. I must point out here that I consider this to be important intervention - because this term has been badly abused - primarily to deal with the epidemic of child obesity and secondly to malnutrition - as a serious case - both for the current and future child populations. As far as disability benefits are concerned, those who have spoken of cutbacks have been disproved, while efforts are being made to make them less painful and in the right way. Therefore, this year's budget as a whole, without being entirely fair, has been formulated with a painful effort for increased social justice, so that the cost of taxation primarily goes to social protection, as much as objective conditions allow. It's a tool. It does not do everything, it has multiple and priority objectives, but it contributes, together with the sacrifices of the Greek people, on the way out of the comitology. In conclusion, I would like to stress that the possibility that the government might become a short parentheses has now been prevented. And this triggers anger, despair, fear of opposition parties and friendly adjacent to them. The defeated left - and the previous speaker said so - defeated the collective level and the call and deprived them of power. And after their plans in and out of Greece to overturn have been canceled, they choose to adopt extremes, a far-right agenda, a civil-war vocabulary, the creation and reproduction of "fake news". But collective memory is not so easy to erase. Finally, given where we started and the opposite sizes we had to face, it is clear that our strength is not about the chair. It could not be achieved without the support - silent and certainly criticism - of the social strata which the crisis has raised crucially. That is why we have to follow the same policy on the social issue. And, of course, this path is a necessary prerequisite for the systematic, appealing, disciplined and organised conflict with all forms and all levels, since its networks are the central responsibility of the established conditions for the reproduction of the political system, a very difficult and dangerous case, which requires specialized, strong political will, quiet and systematic work and additional vigilance, preparedness, endurance and solidarity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u211	The Member, Mrs Catherine Marcu, shall request a short-day absence from abroad from 22 December 2017 until 26 December 2017. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u212	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Mr. Kalafatis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u213	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, a state budget in difficult times must be a battle line for the government, but for a government willing to fight, work, bleed to yield work and results, even if it fails to achieve the targets set at 100%. The 2018 budget, unfortunately, confirms, like last year, that this government only holds the battle line for society, a real battle track really exterminating and forbidding in particular for the weakest, who are allegedly being cut off by the government. It would have been worthy, you know, of today's conversation, if the SYRIZA - ANEL government believed what it says. But what happens is that no one is convinced. Sometimes she doesn't convince her most loyal friends either. What, then, is the point of the debate when a government really 'Minhausen' does not hesitate to claim anything before doing the opposite or worse. I'll answer right away. It makes sense for the citizens who are watching us to understand how indifferent their everyday life is for a government that only cares about the staying in power. He has suddenly loved the numbers on the left - which he supposedly presided over - for the growth, for the surplus, for the social dividend. So I'm going to stand on the very basic numbers. The growth forecast for 2018 is convinced not only of us, but also of the world that hears us that whether we have a government of ethers or a government consciously mocking citizens, yet one of these two possible happens. And because, according to her report, the government had delusions, which it no longer has, it is easy to conclude that the second, conscientious ramification of citizens is the case. Because the government knows very well that the forecast of 2.5% is as unreliable as a false forecast of 2.7% this year has proved to be. Approaching the end of the year, Greek and international estimates of the final growth rate of GDP reflect the countdown. The IMF predicted 1.8%, then the Centre for Planning and Economic Research predicted 1.6% and more recently the OECD predicted that the growth index would lock to 1.4%. So the government knows well how refreshing the 2017 budget was. He knows as well about the 2018 budget. The fact that the government neither believes itself is easily demonstrated by a number of conflicting positions of government officials, including the Prime Minister. On one hand, they speak of fair growth, and on the other they confess an unfair budget. One pretends to be fans of a pro-investing climate, the other fights investment in all kinds of pretext. They admit that taxes prevent investment in Greece and at the same time increase them, strangling the real economy. At the same time, they start promises of tax reductions from 2019, but they do not cease to state very well that tax elimination of the middle class is a conscious choice. They falsify society with a social divide in favour of the weak that it was secured by embracing society itself, but at the same time abolish the ESA for a hundred thousand low pensioners, reduce all the support benefits of the weak and increase the income criteria for all kinds of aid. They suck the candy of clean exit from the memorials, when they have already bound the country with worse memorial measures for 2019 and 2020, while at the same time they pretend not to hear the European explanations of a hybrid memorandum and a hard comitology that disproves them. You know, ladies and gentlemen, in what phrase does the people describe such alien behaviour? In the words 'do not know what is happening to them'. But in the case of this government it is only half the truth. Right? Because this government consciously chooses to do nothing to put its contradictions into order or to get out of its delusion. She's a delusional addict. She's turned them into a pillar of her condition. You see, this foreign policy helps her to earn time of power, time lost every day by the country, while at the same time continuing faithful to their ideas to impoverish Greek society. It helps her to produce empty slogans, while accumulating weights in her selected victims, the middle class, in which every day it includes more and more of the weak that she allegedly protects. I will give just one example: the government is baptising the replacement of large-scale real estate tax. At the same time, by adjusting the objective values in combination with the taxation of transfers and the tsunami of the auctions also rises to the detriment of micro-suppliers, it turns ownership into a loop for millions of families. Truly, you believe, gentlemen of the government, that you will go out and shout "we have abolished HIS!" And will anyone believe you? Or do you just want to offer a slogan to the party army that's still following you either believe you or not? That's how I get it. As far as the surplus is concerned, you are advertising 3.85% for next year. This only proves: how determined you are to continue the tax bleeding of the Greek society that learns in the most painful way day after day and tax on the fact that pooring is a key option on the left ideological platform. Be sure, however, that the New Democracy has a way of getting the country out of the stagnation in which you have pushed it, because in a Europe that has already started to change, not thanks to you, but despite your existence, the recipe for restoring the optimism of people is there and has a liberal signature, ladies and gentlemen, no matter how much you mutter 'incredible'! As much as you don't want to believe it, that's reality. And the New Democracy - and I close, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance - is the only political force it knows, can and above all wants to implement it in Greece, again giving the Greeks the right to plan their lives and not just to fight for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u214	Mr. Athanasios from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u215	Mr President, I will not object to opposition. On the contrary, I'll try to find a common place. Where do we agree? We agree that we need to get out on the markets. Or not? Markets are punishing. Yes, sir. But the markets once cease to want exiles. There are times when they hate to see countries outside bond markets, because it is simple, as the unemployed are micro-marketed, so the countries excluded from the markets, exiled states, minimize the market, which despairs the system. What does life say? Is the second one now? Iraq issued its first bond after ten years of absence. If you don't like this example, think about Argentina. You once put it in your mouth very often. This country has proved unable to fulfil its obligations six times, but, as ECONOMIST notes, it has easily found buyers for a hundred-year bond, please, lasting. Unless ECONOMIST is wrong here. I repeat, hundreds of years. Where do we disagree? We agree on this, but we disagree on the way that leads to this. You say you've discovered a better way, a better policy mix. But does our creditors identify the way to the maximum? Do they, when they are not referring to precise engraving, resort to solutions of the kind "To go to Thessaloniki, will you pass from Thebes, Lamia and Larissa, so the road is predetermined in another way?" He says, "You are trying to catch the wonderful surpluses not with growth, but with austerity." Wonderful. Welcome to Kanes, welcome to Krugman. No crisis in world economic history has ever been overcome with austerity, this school decides. But this game is lost for Europe. Here in Europe the school of austerity prevailed, unlike the United States. The Obama Government tried to prevent Europeans from being austerityd. He failed. These have been written and have not been disproved. In his book "Stress Test" the then Minister for Economic Affairs, Obama's first, Timothy Gatener, is addressed to the Shoeble environment and Shoeble himself, saying - is a terrible phrase: "You want to press the Greeks in the neck". Listen to expressions! Sic, say. "You want to take a spade and hunt them down. If you do, be careful not to cross the consequences of austerity on the other Atlantic bank, otherwise...’. If you haven't read Guitner's book, I remind you that's what you can look for on the Internet. This cut was also published in the English-speaking "KATHMERINI". You protest overtax, and you do it because it hurts. Because, indeed, when taxes are combined with insurance contributions in certain sectors, this is extremely painful. But when you gave 100 billion to taxes in the 2000s, did you not think of any black clouds? The deviation of tax revenue in our country is 100 billion from the average of the countries of the euro area. A debt of 100 billion was made to enjoy some wealthy strata, some large businesses, some banks. This figure, 100 billion away from the Eurozone average only in the 2000s, cannot be eradicated. It approaches 1/3 of our total public debt and is a terrible element in Europe's sad economic history. Of course, we are talking here very often as if there are no other peoples, other states, other continents, as if we were alone in this world. So I will not be out of the question if I tell you that the current President of the United States is doing the same thing and you will see what he has to do with Greece. It gives taxes to those who have a great deal and even too much. But in 1980 President Bush, the elder, the visitor of Crete and the house of Mitsotakis, described as "voodou" economic policy, that is, economic policy - what does voodoo mean? - of black magic to think that lowering taxes on the very rich will bring about an economic miracle. The tax evacuations will be coming, I imagine, in a year and a half. But do you finally believe Shoeble when he says that the nightmare is over for Greece? Paul Thompsen when he asks for a long extension of payments to the Greek debt? Moschovisi when he announces that the recovery of the Greek budget is unprecedented? Diaselblum when he says it's time for us to bend on Greek debt? The Deutsche Bank that provides a successful exit for Greece in August 2018? I personally attach greater importance to Gabriel's statements that 'another four years of Shoeble' and 'capit' Europe'. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Can I have another minute, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u216	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u217	Thank you. Eventually, what is this budget? Andre Morois, biography by Viktor Uggo, engraves the terrible phrase: "necessary makes law." Don't get confused. The same applies to this budget. Need made law. He didn't make a law on those budgets that led us to the destruction. Because we thought we didn't need to, need to change, need to be difficult, need to wait for the cowboy. The most important thing is that Greece finally acquires a culture of change and reforms. We are no longer afraid of change. And you should once join the culture of realism, which leads to the culture of consensus. It's the only way. It is easy to disagree. But very often it's cheap. No matter how voter it is, you once pay for its consequences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u218	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how it operates, thirty-eight students and students and two educational attendants from the Kymnasia High School (Second Chamber). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We will give the floor to the President of Parliament, Mr Nikolaos Voutsi. Mr. Voutsi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u219	Ladies and gentlemen, we have sometimes said that the debate here, on such top issues, is a reality and forms a climate of political provincialism. That is why I have to start by saying that we all need to reflect on the wider international situation, on the incredible inequalities that exist and are evolving throughout the world at this time of globalisation, on the path and thoughts that are taking place for bitcoin, on the debate that is taking place in the European Parliament on offshore and on every political force to take note of the positions it will take on this crucial, the key issue, from the huge debate that is taking place with serious climate risks. [[At this point, the President-in-Office takes over the Vice-President of Parliament, Ms. MARios GEORGIADIS.]] Yesterday, the Prime Minister was at the international climate conference. Of the great events marked by the wrong and provocative decision on Jerusalem by President Trump. In other words, there is a great deal of progress, which concerns us directly, directly and indirectly, and which forms the cornerstone, along with the debate on the future of Europe, in which the future of the country is judged, our own debates are also being held, which we are talking about. I would like to stress that I fear that the size of political leaderships, like the one which was missing yesterday from President Tusk's statements, have led to Europe leading to the situation in Europe. These statements to leave behind the commitment and the obligation to share responsibility for the hospitality of refugees in European countries, with an obvious backing in the pressure of the policies of the Visegrad countries. All these are very critical issues which cannot be missed and are even completely absent from the debates that are taking place here. Ladies and gentlemen, it seems that instead of embarrassment and defiance and obvious lack of alternative strategy, an extreme political hysteria, I would say, has been imprisoned, a cresent of opposition catastrophe. It is going on - and I say it directly - the creation of an anti-SYRIZA political front on clean materials, political selfishness and a deeply conservative policy. His inspires will be disgusted. Society, its creative powers, spiritual scientific powers, working forces are aware of the essence of the war that is taking place and of the interests that exist in this war. These forces will emerge, in the transitional phase that will demarcate the future of the country after the memorials, into national hegemonies to defend the future of the progressive policy and the country's active position in the contradictory and complex European context. In the past two and a half years, an arbitrary political future with extreme destructive estimates has been ahead. You all remember: "The first one will not come out, the second one will not come out, the third one will not come out", "Grexit's ghost is coming back", "we will not go out on the markets", "the targets will not be caught", "they will be cut off in the 2018 budget." In three days the budget is being passed! "The program does not come out" or "the program comes out with society broken, kneeled, hopeless and future." Extreme things, no arguments. Then came the story of the lost three years. I have heard it very much these days, with political nonsense of the press, "A hundred billion has been costed by the SYRIZA administration." In the morning, Mr Mandas gave a text which was also tabled in the Minutes for this type of statement, such as that in the hundred billions, fifty-six of the previous programme, etc., have been incorporated, billion to billion. However, they are repeated in the channels from morning to night: 'You have cost us 100 billion'. Others say: "Eighty billion" and more. Then, in order to serve interests that quickly lost their ruins or which cannot wait for the real or constitutional deadlines for the elections to take place, etc., a propaganda that had both opposite, but the same hideous, faces were gnawed. On the one hand, we're all the same. You are the same as us, in the new version of 'all of us ate them together'. Why is that so? To legitimize the recurring in the political track of forces, persons and spaces, which have an absolute responsibility for how this country was led to bankruptcy in previous years and to be weaned by these responsibilities. In a sense "we're all the same" on the other hand. In fact, people themselves make this argument, without any interest, if they are right or anything, and they say that the programme and the policy of the government prove the Left, our identity and values, our commitments and our ideology. In this sense, the overall criticism in this budget too is summarised in the category of burdening all predictions instead of redistributing the weak economic strata. Finally, this scenario, which incorporates all the previous narrative and in which the leadership of the Democratic Integration has now acceded and the leadership of the Democratic Integration, on the line that the government is now leaving and that SYRIZA is strategically defeated, provides for an entirely arbitrary and multiplely disproved by the most current international factors inability to allegedly clean exit from the Memorandum of Understanding and surveillance, a fourth-fifth memorandum, a support line and all the others that we are monitoring these days. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the transition from the humanitarian crisis phase in previous years, at a stage in which we have now entered - whether they want it or not - at the Government's initiative to move out of the crisis is not based on reasonable enforcement or on established attitudes. It is fully based on a complex effort to recover and consolidate a wider hegemony that starts from restoring the country's solvency internationally and so the conditions are built to renew the hope of a large part of our people. I sample policies and countermeasures, for which nothing positive has been heard, or rather destructive interpretations have been heard. Firstly, on the course of the ESDP. The data from Mr Manda on high absorption have been heard before. Today, Mr. Katinen - if I am not mistaken - said that Greece is the third country to be absorbed into the Juncker package. The main suggestion of the Officerial Response is that we haven't even got one euro from the Juncker package. I don't know, but people are listening! To reach agreement on the elements and then to see what powers each political force expresses, to oppose them. But it is not possible to say such things. Secondly, the current development law and its direction are completely different from the previous one. The social economy: For whoever took a walk to Gazi saw two hundred businesses with sprouts from all over Greece in multiple sectors and the primary sector and others that start to grow. Is the arrangements for extrajudicial compromises not a package of economic measures and incitements made by this government? Why are you in a hurry to leave? What's wrong with you? Thirdly, as far as ECHO is concerned, the Minister gave you his data, his forecasts, because it went better, because it was worse. Have you dared to go to a single social security institution? Isn't that a huge reform? With what courage the current government, SYRIZA, say, is a reformist place and has not made areas, reforms, etc.Huh? The people who call it from that side are missing. Who dared to move on to the D.A. who's going well? It's going well, maybe better than we predicted. Isn't it a big reform section along with the financial results of 2017? Fourthly, the reduction of unemployment and the forms of flexible labour, which have been rightly pointed out by all sides, is a problem. It is, however, a problem in the context of growth, in the context of a reduction in unemployment, in the context of tackling the problem that we will face together. You cannot compare and say 'yes, unemployment is falling, it is falling, it is not a part of it, but it is flexible'. Apparently, first of all, we're thinking about that, that we have a problem. Also, social income of solidarity, allowances, social dividends for a second year is another package of interventions in this area that shows the diversity, the discrepancy it answers throughout the previous account. That is why I am saying this because I want to talk with evidence. For outlets on the markets that have already been attempted, for economic indicators, for bond spreads under 2007, what do you have to say? How were they found under 2007, in other words ten years ago? Because of the solvency, the sacrifices, the painful program as it is. But they were found. It's a clue. It is a foundation for the road map to proceed. Also, it is commonly said that it is important that the funds allocated to farmers in detail over the two years, but also that of the tax and insurance system, which especially did not exist in this area. The people were on the "air father". They would not have finished soon, and the lukewarm benefits they received in respect of insurance. Moreover, the hit on tax evasion, the placement of POS and the treatment of smuggling phenomena brought immediately EUR 1 billion. Why didn't you do it in the past five years of the crisis? Has he escaped you? There were resistances to social institutions and categories - not to be named back from here again - which are considered privileged. Come on, let's make a forehead together so that these resistances can be burned and put into POS, even though the last store in the small family business has put in, who lives, does not live every day, the last craftsman lives. Also, it is the resources of undeclared income. How much money did they come from there already? The foreign lists? The health coverage of the population as a whole and the steps of primary health were mentioned in previous detail. Management of the refugee immigration crisis as a whole over the three years. The road axes, what happened? How did they end? How much did the Greek public get away with? These 'users', the 'emonics', the 'anti-business' and various other surnames used in this room, where are they based? How did they end? With what savings for the Greek State? How did one change the image and the possibility of communicating - and not just at holidays - with his homeland and so on? The TAP pipeline is going well and agreements are made to make the country an energy hub. I am talking about the very large projects that are now being implemented. This year's tourism has amounted to thirty million, which have gathered and remained these years and are only coming up because of the situation in Turkey and Egypt? And to what extent? Let's see. The four and a half million in Attica, while there were four hundred thousand tourists four years ago, to what is due? You've given the explanation. In the past few years, we do not allow the world to come and now four and a half million. In any case, let us come seven million, eight or nine. Find an explanation on the basis of which this place can walk. Give me an interpretation. Settlement of the TV scenery. It's gonna happen. Well, at some point, it's gonna happen. Against all the institutions - so as not to open up any issue - which they have put on the verge of a thousand ways. And you've been scorched all those years. It's going to take care of the TV scenery. Will you tell me, will it change quality? Will the interests invested there change? I'll beat you up! "My mouth will be in prison"! I'm not saying anything else. But at least the television landscape will be settled. Sectors in command, why are you questioning them? Why do you say what you're saying here? The House yesterday completed - he is the first public body - and the assessment of directors - eighteen directors now, four general directors - has been evaluated to all staff and you know very well that it has been done on the basis of the new law and in an excellent way and with a great deal of effort and will be done everywhere. Steps are taking place. They are taking steps in public administration as well. Finally, but not least, harmonisation with the European Union on rights, on freedoms, on the penitentiary system, on the modernisation and widening of rights, on family law. What's all this? Who was it from? By some who are all the same in here politicizing or by some who stand in their chairs just to keep them. Finally, I shall mention the subject of the amendment on strikes. We will of course be able to have a debate here in the context of the general debate on the third assessment. Let me tell you - and it is not our inspiration or a measure that we would like to impose, but in any case - that it does not concern the abolition of the strike right, but that it concerns the presence of 50% at a general meeting by the cash associations only and by a decision by a qualified majority within this assembly. That's what this is about. That's the truth. Is this a measure that we consider positive? I say no - and not just me - and we'll talk about it when we're going to talk about it. But that's it. It's no longer. And we must discuss this, claim it, but at the same time say that the EDPS, i.e. the Labour Inspectorate, in these two years, has made a qualitative leap with controls and fines, and I would expect this to be recognised in relation to the middle ages that we have rightly, particularly on this side, brought back and bring back, which we have said repeatedly. It has begun and is unfortunately established in industrial relations. He has jumped with his interventions, with the fines, without dropping phones from the employer and silence. This is the task of this government. Is that a countermeasure? Is he voting for the other one or the third? Oh, no. But it's a very positive thing. So I say, Mr President, that much has been done, there will be a great deal of it, and society will remain standing, as the country will come to light from the long-standing crisis and from the bankruptcy that the forces that today are trying to wear the new saviour have led us to do. I also note your strong disagreement with the budget that incorporates the whole of government policy and beyond the commitments of the agreement. That is why I personally do not agree with what is said and for our part on the last Memorandum of Understanding. This isn't about it. It is the third budget of this government that incorporates the commitments of the Memorandum of Understanding, but it is the whole policy of the Government. It is not something that has been imposed on us, which we have been forced to do or which has come here today, and we read it or are asking for it. I say, then, that you are deeply concerned about the interests that flee from the immunity regime and the improper, in which for decades, but also within the crisis, they had become accustomed to speculating, taxing, taxing, taxing and sending their black and gray money to economic paradises abroad. That's the truth. These are the accedings. I do not believe that the political opposition party or those who are in a hurry to stand up to them will speed up developments and keep saying elections. Others are the accedings, I would like to point out that you have not found the historic courage to say publicly that the so-called 'uccess story' of 2014 has been valued, valued and discredited and eventually led you to a run-off from power by your famous international institutional partners who, like you, have confessed to neoliberalism and built up the status of austerity strategy and Europe of inequality in recent years. It's their fault. But that's a slap if you don't find the courage to tell that truth about what happened here in 2014. Most importantly, you don't find the courage today on the one hand to make a brave self-criticism and a scientific review of what major changes are in society from the therapies - shocks that have been imposed. On the other hand, you do not have the courage to admit that today's institutions, for their own reasons, for their weaknesses and priorities, for their own deadlocks - say what you want - in an international and European situation that is changing irreversibly and highly contradictoryly, support the roadmap based on the country's political and geostrategic stability, on economic achievements and on the implementation of all the necessary steps, so that there is a sustainable exit that you will also come out of crisis. Because it is not the same thing to get out of the memorials and get out of the crisis, with society standing up, with backbone of productive reconstruction and social redistribution through a healthy growth in the economy. So you want to believe that the course of exit from the 2014 crisis has been overturned by some who fooled the people, who lied and continue to lie, while the people should continue to support you and resent you for what you had done by 2014. The story, however, was written differently and will be written differently. In other words, the bankruptcy regime has been overturned, and since then, three times the people have denounced these policies. I trust that the same will happen in the future, namely to support the Left and a new relationship with society, a new relationship with Europe with a leading attitude of the country with the Left in governance with Europe. It will support a new progressive alliance of stability and development for the country, a new – even wider – progressive cooperation of governance of this country after 2019. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u220	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u221	Here, Mr. Loverdos, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u222	Mr President, the President of Parliament has spoken without time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u223	Mr. Loverdo, you know that for courtesy the President of this House has no time and has been written as speaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u224	We agree on that. For reasons of courtesy, however, but also of political soundness, he should avoid his introductory argument, with which he approximately told us that the opposition has suspicious motives, is suspicious. That, Mr President, is unacceptable and unprecedented. He has the right to express his views, as is the other two hundred ninety-nine. He has no right to determine, as he is concerned, the motives of each opposition party. After three years in power, everyone must know that it is the legality of the parliamentary culture that governments oppose them by all parties that do not participate in the government coalition. If he now wants to make a distinction between the right, in his opinion, opposition and the unrighteous one, he has to write the reasons for counter-population and invite us to read them. He needs to revise what he said.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u225	Mr. Loverdo, it's clear what you're saying. We're not gonna censor what everyone says. We won't censor anyone's word here. For God's sake! It has the right to express itself freely. He hasn't spoken on staff. Mr. Loverdo, he hasn't talked personally about anyone. He talked in general.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u226	If he says the opposition is suspicious, he'll have to tell us where he knows, or he'll get it back.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u227	Excuse me, I would like the floor for half a minute to solve the misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u228	Here, Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u229	I never said anywhere that opposition was suspicious of anything. I said that, in my assessment, a political front is being set up - SYRIZA with the help of specific political forces, and I argued on this for a quarter.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u230	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u231	A little quiet, please! Ladies and gentlemen, you don't sound! Be quiet, because you don't sound like a turbulence. Here, Mr Stakoura, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u232	I, indeed, would just like a minute. I have listened carefully to the President, whom I respect. Of course, I did not hear in his position any vote of self-criticism about opposition irresponsibility that the political party he represents had shown for a long time, nor about the government's delusions that have cost the Greek people so much. For example, Mr President, you spoke about the EFCA. When the Karamanlis government, apart from a memorial, reduced the number of insurance funds where you were? Not a memorial!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u233	Mr. Stavura, we've been talking about three things.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u234	Mr President, you don't sound.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u235	You were on the streets towards reform outside the memorial. Secondly, I have heard nothing about the earthquakes, about the 'no house in the hands of a banker', about the tearing up of the memorials, about not reducing duty-free. But you're different, you said. Thirdly, and last but not least, you spoke about tax evasion. I am sorry, but here you have failed and failed, because the government's own figures - and I will testify to them - show that your commitments for EUR 3 billion in six months have become 100 million in two and a half years. I'm filing the relevant documents. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Stagiras, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And last of all, Mr President, you have not spoken at all - you know - of the EUR 14.5 billion, not even half a line for the twenty-seven taxes - because I have no time - for the twenty-one pension cuts, for all the measures that are included in the medium term. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Stagiras, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] With regard to the 2014 elections, we all know what your attitude was, who caused the elections. And anyone who reads the famous asset of the then government, Mr. Varoufakis, who confessed that the elections had to be held in January, because if they were held in September 2015 the election result was unknown. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u236	Thank you, Mr. Stakoura. Mr. Ioannis Delis has the floor on behalf of the Communist Party of Greece for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u237	We have listened very carefully to the President of Parliament speaking for some time and to compare the events of the SYRIZA Government with the events of the previous governments, saying that they have done much more than they have done, that they have done things that they have not done. Look, we never said you did a little. You've done a lot and you're still gonna do it. The question is who you're doing, who you're serving, who you're benefiting from these measures. And I'm sorry, so long, and we didn't hear the slightest hint about wages and pensions, for example. They are constantly saying here from Stepma that the government's Members - of course, what they say a moment ago, the President of Parliament again, in full ownership of this budget - are the last Memorandum of Understanding, that in a few months the memorandum is over, we are changing page, that growth has already come. This is SYRIZA's new dangerous story. In the same way, New Democracy and PASOK and other urban parties are fighting against SYRIZA, serving the same strategy. Is it true what the end of the memorials and the committee are you talking about? Would the hundreds of memorial laws be abolished? The old pension slaughterhouse for 2019 and the break-up of duty in 2020 is not for the end of the memos? The surpluses by 2060 that you signed don't mortgage the life of our people for decades? And you have the courage after all this to sell hope to the people and talk about the new page that starts? The applause from the BSE, the shipowners, the big-timers, the congratulations of the IMF, the European Union, the lenders bear witness to who this page opens. And when we ask the ministers about today's explosive people's needs, we get a response monotonously, that the budgetary conditions do not allow it. And so came education, among other things, to the unprecedented. We also see this year's budget. Money for education is about what you give each year for NATO, where you are one of the champions. There are no financial obstacles there. And schools and universities may be squeezing financially, but Trump's condolences are taking them with your sword. The financial obstacles, however, are placed on the appointments of teachers, after you have fooled them abominably. And now you tell them about after 2020 and we see. The result is thousands of wandering teachers throughout the country, going every year and elsewhere with half the rights and with hunger wages. For the universities and the TEI last year you provided for 900 million and this year 850 million in the year of development! How are they gonna get through this? And what does that mean to the thousands of students? Would they and their families finally undertake to cover the government's lack of funding? You see that with the generalization of tuition fees in the postgraduate courses that you voted for in the summer and with the official institutionalized entrance of the HEIs to the great commercial bazaar of post-training and training. In the meantime, with various rabbits, you have opened up the debate even for tuition and undergraduate. In public and other IKKs, thousands of students already pay from their pockets the necessary materials for their studies. The situation in the schools is no different. He's there dramatically, too. In fact, it is planned to get worse next year, since the budget for the operating expenses of schools and their maintenance is reduced. You will give 24 million less for time, effectively blackmailing parents to put their children's hands in a pocket. What anti-Semitism of schools to talk about, what anti-military protection to say with such a budget? The earthquake protection program launched by the UCLAF has been frozen since 2010 even the UCLAF itself is no longer there. Done S.E. and PPP and big-workers servant. You are playing with the safety of children in a country of earthquake, while you know very well that one out of three schools have more than half a century of operation and only 20% have been built over the past twenty years. What are you talking about in the budget and saying they're also in your priorities? For the additional teaching support in high school, which last year did not work at all, raising the school clientele, or maybe for the reinforcement of teaching that began last year in half of the year and this year, now, at the time we're talking, has it not started yet? Imagine it wasn't on your priorities what would happen! Even more outrageous is the reference to the budget for vulnerable student groups. The situation in the student homes is tragic and the grand amount of student housing allowance will not take half of those in need of it either. And if the students happen to protest about all this, then you send them the MATs, just like you did the other day at the Ministry. Your impatientness, however, is literally taking off when you speak in the rapporteur’s report on the relief you offer from extreme poverty with the hundreds of thirty thousand meals in primary schools. It is not just that this programme only covers 18% of pupils, while the European Union itself determines the rate of child poverty - and we know what the European Union calls 'poverty' - 30%. It is not just that it is dealt with by the Ministry in a handy, irresponsible manner, without health and safety conditions, without the proper feeding spaces for children, without bankers and with teachers in the role of food inspector and waiter. It is the same poverty around us that is growing and that is not a natural phenomenon. It is the poverty created by your wild policy on the footsteps of the previous ones. We do not accuse you of giving little to poverty. We blame you, because with your policy of poverty you are multiplying it and sharing it more and more, throwing them somewhere - somewhere and some "cursor". Finally, your development threatens the people as well as the crisis. People's struggles have the floor, and tomorrow, with tomorrow's strike, it is a good day for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u238	Thank you, Mr. Delis. Mrs Kozobol has the floor on behalf of SYRIZA for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u239	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have been following this topical process since its beginning, and I see something that does not, of course, disgrace me, conspire to the opposition in dance, in a chord, in an endless catastrophe for the last three years, until there the world was born, disaster for the future, mixed with a nostalgic spring for the succession of 2014, for the damage of the Greek economy by the 'false' that citizens have done not to continue to govern by those who have destroyed 25% of the country's GDP in four years. If the image doesn't match reality, it has a secondary role. And if just now, as the President of Parliament has said, it has proved to be thorough, not just once, but two and three, and in the past, for the 100 billion that he has said again - I really raise my hands. I'll avoid the numbers as much as I can, and I'll carry images of the daily lives of the citizens. As far as the social state is concerned, it was taken under a collapse, with fragmentary, customer actions with crumbs and set back on its feet. I am not pointing out this because the relative costs have largely increased, by approaching only 2 billion for social welfare, but because the relevant funds have been secured, as the country has been given strict custody and with an absolute commitment of those who are guarding us in strict austerity policies. Why did we get that money? Because the whole system has been redesigned in a transparent manner, all social policy, to cover those who really need, with dignity, away from customer relations, without enclaving them into the trap of poverty. As far as the health system is concerned, it has been received in incredibly scandalous, deported, ready to surrender to private interests. Something similar has been described to us now and now, but rather, deliberately, they are blind. Because today the health system has come out of intensive long ago and is moving on with equipment, with human resources, planning and implementing new primary care structures. They opened all over the country, we received them off, with the doctors fired. Seven hundred and fifty people a day pass only through the MEDIA of my special homeland, Kalamata, and they do so throughout the country. Health centres have been strengthened, their functioning is streamlined. They're not images of the future. Our fellow citizens, insured and uninsured, receive it in their daily lives. All this, without funding the health system from this budget. And that's why? Because the whole system works. Apart from all expectation, EOPYY is paid, and then he becomes a donor to hospitals, which for the first time have surpluses. And that was questioned here, but the evidence, I'm sorry, is not true. Crime has been considerably reduced in all its indicators, with great and many successes of the Greek Police in the resolution and detection of crimes. Despite the fact that this government has received six thousand police officers less, with their organic positions being abolished, it has been forced to restructure and coexist police departments in order to obtain effective policing with the presence of police officers on the streets, inspire the sense of security for the citizen. Part of the retrospectives that had been cut by previous governments are paid by this government. We pay that amount. With regard to the treatment of fires, the year that passed has been the best year in the last sixteen years, with the means we have received: cars, like the police, of having spent at least four hundred thousand kilometres, destroyed, and of not operating a fire extinguisher. Furthermore, the process was also opened for the permanentisation of five - year - old fire extinguishers, those of them who have had the preconditions, which have been held hostage for years. As far as the penitentiary is concerned, what can I say? The dozens of convicts of the country's violation of human rights and the rights of detainees, millions of fines, have been turned into praise by the European Union. These have not been read by any of the diligents who are bringing us evidence that does not actually respond. Tens of new second opportunity schools were created in prisons, vocational training workshops, new rural prisons, new wings that were kept closed opened, as well as drug addiction centres. For the first time in time, a strategic plan was drawn up by this government in the area of penitentiary, anti-crime policy for the next three years 2018-2020. As far as energy is concerned, the President of Parliament spoke of an energy hub before. I'll say something less. We received the design for the "small" PPC, which required us to sell hydroelectric plants, natural gas and lignites. We were able to sell only one part, 40%, of the lignite plants. And while you knew, gentlemen, that the deposits of lignite are finite, you did not give a plan, nor even a single thought, for the post-population period, for the areas that are seated by the extraction of a display. And now they're pulling the finger that we're selling the lignites.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u240	Who sells them?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u241	Think of what you had agreed, Mr. Constantinople, who wondered who sold them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u242	Who sells them?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u243	It's disgraceful and shameless!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u244	Mrs. Kozobol, don't open a dialogue. Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u245	Protection of first residence. On the 25-1-2015 we received there was nothing. The law in place since 2013 on horizontal protection of the first residence was not in force, it was over 31-12-2014. It was extended by us, by this government, the Katseli Act to the beneficiaries who were entitled to join and to the debts that were regulated.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u246	It was PASOK's law.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u247	Statakis Law.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u248	Mr. Constantinople, please respect the speaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u249	The code of conduct of the banks has improved. The out-of-court settlement mechanism was introduced to protect the main residence and the trader and the businessman. [[At the point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing.]] It does not allow me time to quote other images of everyday life and I do not insist that the bankrupt country, which we received, has become a paradise. But you don't call her her image. Ladies and gentlemen, the 2018 budget cannot be judged independently of the economic environment and the constraints that the country has been facing for a decade. In this economic environment, then, the state's actions were planned within the adjustment programme, expenditure for 2018 was budgeted, with a plan that marks fiscal stability, allowing us to speak about the last year in the programme, which inspires confidence in the markets, because our loan rate on the markets, of which we were excluded from your own policies, of the previous governments, has reached a low decade. This trust results from this design that we are doing for 2018. It's the best answer. [[At the point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing.]] But I don't have time to go on. I just want to say that this government, in its sensitivity, the social costs that have increased them and not cut them, as the family allowances for the family say, show what is the mark of the Left, a left that attempts to govern the country, not only in conditions of economic suffocation but also in traps and chains that others have prepared for it, since they could not halt its rise. A Left that has succeeded in getting Greece out of isolation, making it play a strong role in Europe and that will take it out of the custody of the lenders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u250	Thank you, Mrs. Kozobol. Mr Kasapidis has the floor from New Democracy for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u251	Thank you, Mr President. Indeed, there are reasonable questions being raised, not only to the Members of the opposition but also to our Greek fellow citizens who are listening to us - and I shall refer to the honourable Member's favourite previous speaker - when you resign the opposition to the issue of PPC, when the current Prime Minister, when he was in the opposition, denounced the position of the government at the time, like your co-government, Mr Kammenos.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u252	Signed, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u253	I would also like to point out the rapporteur's reference to other colleagues, Mr Athanasios, who called on the opposition to land in realism, forgetting that the Prime Minister himself declared remorse, because he was delusional about what he then accused the former government, who was trying to do what you are saying today. Then you called it the country’s tradition and betrayal and used other similar surnames, and today you do them with great comfort and ease. At least, let us find a common denominator of understanding, ladies and gentlemen, on issues that we can make a common component, because here the Greek people are listening to us, and we have to be more careful and more landed. I would like to put another dimension, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the debate on the 2018 budget in a deficit that has been in existence for three years, in the notorious plan for productive reconstruction. We have heard nothing so far about this prospect, about the evolution that all the Greeks are waiting for, because the problems of everyday life, unemployment, poverty and poverty will be alleviated, especially by our weakest financial compatriots. So this is the most famous productive reconstruction plan to date, three years after the SYRIZA-ANEL co-government took over. Instead, macroeconomicly, the indicators are getting worse for most, except for some improvements, which we all wish to see progress and better for the economy - which is why I will be tabling some proposals then - but we cannot overlook the fact that the packages are increasing, we cannot overlook the fact that the public debt is increasing, we cannot overlook the fact that the banks need new recapitalisation and the ownership of the public system has been lost. This has been done for your days. As also, we cannot overlook the twenty new taxes imposed by your government, among them: cuts in the EASS, reductions in the heating allowance that for us the Macedonians is very important, and, unfortunately, the Left Government has again failed its election promises and is doing such acts with great comfort, and that is why I stress that we need to lower the tons a little. One would expect, ladies and gentlemen, your commitments to combat tax evasion, paralysis and corruption to see them at the forefront of your government. After all, you were saying what happened to the 40 billion sea bass that the bankers who took their responsibilities out of previous law the previous government would have to answer. Here, three years now because you are not bringing over this law and those who believe in the dispute of this case to support it, including those who speak it. However, you did not do so with the result that - those who have visited the extreme Thrace - huge infrastructure and untapped facilities, because there was, unfortunately, a plundering of public wealth through various programmes and, unfortunately, even today. Therefore, the fight against the paradoxical economy, tax evasion and corruption seems to me to be a national objective, Mr President, which we can all in here join forces and bring a result, which will certainly be very beneficial to both the country and the economy in particular. More specifically, I would like to put forward some proposals concerning the plan for productive reconstruction - I also see the dear Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development, who is playing his game - but unfortunately we are still waiting for the Government's proposals on reconstruction in the primary sector. The country continues to be a deficit in the agri-foodstuffs. Approximately EUR 6 billion is imports over the last 15 years, but it has continued in the last three years to be paid by the country for food imports, precisely because this project has not been available for years. We would expect to do so now, because perhaps it is also the last programmes that can finance this primary sector's recovery. I would therefore like to propose that this can go much easier through the upgrading of agricultural education, because, in my view, Greece needs education and production to be able to recover in the primary agricultural education and livestock sector first. In fact, in order to help this agricultural education, I have tabled a motion for a resolution to introduce school gardens at all levels of school education to familiarize Greeks from young ages with this unknown concept of agricultural production, because, unfortunately, police law has also alienated these healthy forces of our country, our country, from this point of view. [[At this point, the end of the time bell is ringing by the honourable Member.]] Mr President, I'm going to need some more time. If we aim at the country's self-sufficiency in both food and energy and other sectors, but primarily in food, then we can hope that in six years' time we will be able to recover about 80% of our food imports, i.e. about EUR 5 billion and three hundred thousand new permanent jobs scattered in the countryside. How? Through the increase in domestic production. In the livestock sector: we are importing products of EUR 2,200 000 000 per year, focusing on cheese products with the protection of the European acquis - and here again I stress that the feta should not be lost, we will have a responsibility for all our colleagues in this Chamber in a short time - as well as for increasing domestic production in sheep and goatmeat to restore imports to other meat types, which can be restored by domestic production. I stress that De Gol after the war, when he founded France, he said that we decided to build the industry and start from livestock farming. And in a 2011 post "NEW YORK TIMES" it was said that feta and olive oil can get Greece out of the crisis. The olive-growing sector is another sector that can give great impetus to the infamous development and rural reconstruction in our country, through the introduction of new indicators of quality, ladies and gentlemen, as science today defines these indicators of polyphenols, which have excellent pharmaceutical action and upgrade Greek olive oil under specific technical directions of production and make it unsurpassed worldwide. This is something that we must go through to our producers through agricultural education.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u254	Slowly.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u255	I shall conclude, Mr President. Also, in the fisheries sector, there has been an operational plan for the last two years of the Marine Farmers Association, which has been talking about growth in domestic production and the fishing of 100% by 2030, with doubling of all sizes. Our fish exports every year are about 400,000,000 euros. Finally, if the textile industry is managed through a special programme, with reduced rates of taxation and through its vertically integrated organization, it can provide an additional 3,000 new jobs and around 3,000,000 euros of domestic production, replacing our imports into ready-made clothing, along with the aromatic pharmaceutical plant sector, which is the country's great vault, we can have some four hundred new development proposals, scattered across the Greek countryside.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u256	Mr. Comrade, you're out of time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u257	I'm hanging up with this, Mr. President. This requires, as I have said, a productive reconstruction plan, which can aim to increase production and productivity in the primary and manufacturing sector, which will give the country wealth and hundreds of thousands of new jobs in the country, signalling much decentralisation. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u258	Thank you, Mr. Kasapidis. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and toured in the exhibition of the courtroom "ELLEROS VENIZELOS", thirty-nine students and students and two of their teachers from the 3rd Gymnasium Tripolis. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Mitafidis has the floor from the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u259	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin with the decision, if you wish - which I believe will be unanimous - to respond to the urgent request of the Palestinian people to overturn President Trump's decision to transfer the capital of Israel to Jerusalem, the city of three major religions and cultures. The Palestinian Ambassador has asked us, by applying Parliament's unanimous decision, to take every initiative to overthrow this decision and also at parliamentary level and, of course, towards the Government, to recognise the Palestinian state on the basis of the unanimous resolution of the House. Ladies and gentlemen, the opposition has once again resorted to numericality and to the terrorism of numbers. I say this on the occasion of and the fact - of course it is a sad fact - that tomorrow we will say goodbye to the pedestrian of Greek history, Spyros Astrahas, who, in an excellent article, written on the eve of the referendum in July 2015, referred precisely to this policy of 'in which they invest', as he writes, 'those who want to neutralise the elementary oppositions that a living organization has, in our case a seated society, like the Greek one', stressing 'that there are those people who have been released from the need for fear and are fighting the conditions of unbearable life, even at risk of their collapse'. We have taken this risk, aspiring - that is what all the omens say - to get the country rid of the precursor logic of the memorials, which, of course, have been very elegantly named 'financial adjustment'. I remember Karamanlis the youngest named his policy of'smooth fiscal adjustment' - and in reality it is a violent transformation of Greek society, according to the dominant neoliberal dogmas, which their inspiring today recognize they have failed, leaving behind ruins and unpopular wounds. Even if voting on the memorandum was the only way for the country to keep its head out of water, this does not mean, of course, that the memorandum is a real, effective cure. Nor do the bloody economic measures, however, constitute a cleanser, which we have had to take. And I would like to agree with those colleagues here who point out that the real dilemma is 'productive or counterproductive measures' and not 'hard or milder'. Turning back to the criticism of the policy of overcoming the truth, I would like to say that Mrs Keramos yesterday has fallen into a gave when in an attempt to degrade the fact that this government in these circumstances is increasing funds for education, it has come to say that we have an increase of 548% - please - of the funds for the introductory examinations at universities, when it is just 12.9% the increase to enable the introductory examinations to take place. You know, of course, that this government is committed to exonerating youth and families from the Minotaur of exams, which devours in addition to the young dreams and the poor economies of Greek households. I would like to remind our predecessors that if - the non-sex - were to remain in power, the educational expenditure, on the basis of their commitments, would only reach 1,85% of the budget, and with our own efforts we have brought these expenditure to 2,85% with a tendency to strengthen them even more. I should like to close, ladies and gentlemen, as a former chairman of the committee set up by this House, which has reached the relevant conclusion on German debts - with one, in my opinion, a significant development that we must take as parliament and as government. You know that within Germany itself we have people who work - historical, economists - and support in every way - and with their publications and books - the law of our demands, unfulfilled, from World War II. You can also find this on the website of "DEUTSCHE WELLE" entitled "The open wound of German corrections". There is a book entitled "The debt of the corrections - mortgages of German occupation in Greece and Europe", two great German historians, Karl Heids Rott - who, in fact, also circulates a relevant book in Greece - as well as Hartmut Rubner, who, of course, blame the German Government for not fulfilling its obligations towards our country and, in fact, that the "German elites of power - as he says - in an alliance with the United States of America, have refused to meet their commitments from World War II". I believe that, as we have also committed ourselves to this House to getting out of the regime of tough surveillance, we are aspiring in the next few steps to open this front, which is a front of historical justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u260	Thank you, Mr. Mitafidis. Mr Vassilis Kegeroglu, on behalf of the Democratic Alliance, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u261	Ladies and gentlemen, the Greek people eight years ago, together with the sincere efforts to deal with the crisis, experienced and experienced myths, deception plans and lies, both for the causes and for how to deal with the crisis. In the face of the truth about the causes of the crisis and the economic derailment of 2004-2009, New Democracy has been silent about its responsibilities and instead of taking them, by participating in the search for solutions, organised the anti-immemorandum front. SYRIZA found a stranded territory and expressed the myth of destructive post-multipleism, giving forgiveness to the perpetrators of derailment, slandering the best period of the modern history, the Postpopulation, including the great offering of PASOK and Andreas Papandreou. To deal with the crisis, some New Democracy developed the Zappian myth, which lasted about eight hours from what I remember after the 2012 elections. SYRIZA, for his part, made gross lies. You remember the famous "removal of the memorandum with an article and a law", that this law has not yet come, with the propaganda of hope that comes and some more. All this, however, cost the Greek people three more years of crisis with a backwardness, a loss of some 100 billion, a bloodbath, new taxes and a cut in social spending for many years. Today, lies continue. The SYRIZA - ANEL Government is setting up the myth of the so-called "clean exit", which is only a clear lie, since surveillance will continue in full the Memorandum Obligations signed by Mr. Tsipras will be implemented without, of course, guaranteeing cheap funding. Reduction of tax-free allowances, pension cuts for 2019, total abolition of EKT, reduction of its heating and cancellation allowance thereafter, high surpluses of 3.5% by 2022, 2% surpluses by 2060, oversale and sale of public property for ninety more years, if there is a fortune, of course. Will the mass electronic auctions for the first residence stop, ladies and gentlemen? Aren't they going to be? The sale of PPC, isn't it? Megalopolis units, Melitis, aren't they going to be sold? Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that another myth develops, which I believe will, unfortunately, be disproved again at the expense of the Greek people. The budget is absolutely revealing. I quote three elements which characterize the so-called left-wing government with so-called social policy. First clue. All social policy bodies have large surpluses, a total of 1.640,000, unlike those with a deficit of 325,000 000. The OAED presents a surplus of 629,000 with 23% unemployment and the unemployed waiting. EEAY showed a surplus of 112,000 when it has huge debts to insured, doctors, workshops, social structures of disabled persons, roofs of supported living. OGA 95,000, and it doesn't even pay funeral expenses, they're put in a drawer. He doesn't issue pensions. The hospitals show a surplus of 239,000 and there are no gauzes, sheets, syringes, unpaid newspapers, no auxiliary staff. That's appropriate. It's not bad management. It's appropriate. Bad management is seen in the ECJ. It is appropriate to see the surpluses of social policy agencies. We are going to a second point concerning the relationship between indirect and direct taxes, which have deteriorated, and so in addition to the middle-class, which has been burdened, all consumers, and especially the wide-ranging strata, have paid the bride. The indirect and direct taxes relationship that improved until 2014 and had been formed at 1.15%, reached 1.33 the ratio in 2017. Thirdly, the surplus has arisen except for overtaxation and social spending cuts. The social dividend is EUR 720 million. And only of the about 500m euros that you cut off from the EKRF, but also from the heating allowance, is supplemented. While the real economy is trying to reboot and society is trying to raise itself, you are putting barriers to overtaxation and with all kinds of incentive to produce new income. Of course, cuts in social expenditure are not missing. Unfortunately, all this deserves us. We are the ones who have been blatantly telling the truth and have proposed from the outset the national agreement on overcoming the crisis, as other countries, Cyprus, Portugal and others have done. Today the country, in a critical period, is dragging, without a compass, without a strategy. The normalization of the week and the improvisations of the moment lead to a new dead end, dangerous insanity and devastate the Turkish leadership. The change in policy is more than necessary, and today we can achieve it. The Democratic Compact, the River, the Change Movement, we are now creating new data. We are forming a political and social alliance that will change political correlations, overthrow the government's disastrous policy and prevent conservative perceptions and policies to which the New Democracy is attached. This, of course, is an irritation both in the New Democracy and in SYRIZA. It was typical of the President of Parliament who, in his introduction, actually came out of every limit. We respond that with the "Greek Plan" for the country's development and productive reconstruction, the progressive changes and reforms in the state, the institutions, the economy and society, the country can come out of the crisis and enter a period of prosperity, solid bases now. With this aim and with the citizens, the Change Movement will be leading.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u262	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. Mrs Karakosta has the floor from the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u263	Good evening, everyone and everyone we're here, or they're listening to us, of course. In this Chamber, this week in the budget debate, many and many wondered about our government's development programme. It seemed to me very strange and paradoxical at the same time, because those who wondered were those who ruled three years ago and for too many years. Greeks and Greek women know, but they recognize it themselves - they have said so many times in this Chamber - that forty years of governance they have not been able to create infrastructure in this country. But you know, without a foundation, you build in the sand. And as you know, these are taken by wind and water many times. We're being shaken for what they didn't do for forty years, demanding that we finish them in three years. And be careful, not to start them, but to finish them. Why? Because they want to fight against time. And I would clarify it because we in these three years and finished infrastructure, which you have left incomplete for years and started planning new ones. I wonder: Can there be growth in a country that had no register, despite the fact that European money had been collected for it? What about that money? Where are they? Why has our country been charged? It is known that the register is progressing at a rapid pace from us. I also wonder: is it possible to develop the primary sector without forest maps, to define pastures, rural land and more generally land use? We're going on with this, too. And here I would like to remind you of the sloppiness you had in your legislation, when you wanted to develop mild forms of energy, scattering panels on high productivity agricultural land. This is not planning, colleagues and colleagues. And I still wonder: can people and products move without roads, trains and ships? Four national roads for several years have had them incomplete. We have already handed them over and the fifth - take note - at a cost of EUR 900 million less than you agreed. At the same time, there were parallel connections with them. Whatever you say, whoever you want to convince, whoever goes Corinth, Patras, Arta, Yanna, for example, knows what I mean. Because it is the time it is earned, but it is the safety of people. Years in a country that has been raining from the sea in the centre of the Mediterranean, the railway has never been connected with the ports and airports. Did you ever design a combined transport system and we didn't see it? Can trade develop without it? Can we have economies of scale and become the transport centre given our geographical location? We have designed it, proceeded, and as you well know, we extend it to the neighbouring countries. We have created with the excellent foreign policy the security climate in our country, an essential element for the development of a country that lives, in fact, at the border of countries with flammable conditions. In these contexts of multidimensional foreign policy, we have dealt with the refugee and our country has become known all over the world about solidarity and hospitality. "Philoxity" keyword - along with the word "safety" - to invade thirty million tourists in our country in 2017 and to expect an increase for the next few years. Also, in order to strengthen this area, we have ensured that many direct flights are created in countries far away and close. With our policies for new demarcations of the national parks and the utilization of archaeological sites, we promote tourism throughout the country, throughout Greece and not limited to two or three islands. And the citizens of this country don't think they're forgetting that we've received a country in debt, don't think they don't know that their money was going to black holes. They know very well the words "load" and "means" and they will slowly see that in all ministries they will operate an electronic single platform so that they will quickly and transparently, without oil and without means, be served. Was it so hard for you guys to do it all these years? Are you incapable of losing money on the street? Did the rushfette work? I'm just wondering. The citizens of this country see, for example, what happened to OSTH, on the buses of Thessaloniki: a subsidised private body, with the fees of a Managing Board of Directors EUR 93,000 per year. Now, with Stelios Pappas, 13 000 euros a year, that is, we have a 86.2% reduction. In a quarter, he saved five million euros. With changes in contracts and the settlement of debt, we have a 48.7% reduction in third-party contracts and it is estimated that a year 18 to 20 million euros will be saved. And since "bean beans are filled with the bag," we follow this ancient method of households. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need some more time. Let me remind you that the President of the OSH, as recently revealed, had the insurance funds unpaid. Why did you subsidize without control? These are just examples for citizens to see that we need time to restore all these injustices. Nevertheless, as we promised, we proceed and care - even though we signed that difficult agreement in the summer of 2015 - to make a strong social policy, starting with the people who were carving, if you remember, the garbage, first with the social solidarity allowance. We moved to school lunches. We did everything we had to do last year and this year to the economically weak, based, of course, on the information we had. We have given free health to two and a half million uninsured people created by you, by great unemployment and by the inability of people to pay their insurance funds. We have planned and increased the positions of kindergartens that will constantly increase. We planned and created the TOMY. We have increased the budget to social benefits and - look - for the first time we are subsidising the first and second children to deal with the demographic problem. We have reduced unemployment and planned further reductions, that is to say under 20%. We reformed the market control mechanisms. We made an intervention to manage the private debt with the extrajudicial mechanism and other interventions. We also protect the first residence of low incomes. We have done, but we are planning to do much more, which seems and can be read about whoever looks at the figures in this budget. Because, in fact, the cutter did not work - unfortunately for you - we have a lot of work and we need our time to do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u264	Thank you, Mrs. Karakosta. Mr Savvas Anastasiades has the floor on behalf of the New Democracy and immediately thereafter follows the Deputy Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity Mr Antonopoulou. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u265	Thank you, Mr President. Before I begin my position, I must reply to my outgoing colleague, as far as OSH and his things are concerned. I owe it because the Minister and the government, under the pretext of the major scandals, possessed a private property. It was a real confiscation. They created suffocation conditions for all those debts he says and confiscated the property. Can you tell us, since then, how many millions of euros have the government donated OSTH? Can you tell us how much the revenues from passenger traffic have been reduced today? Nobody's paying. You'll find yourself in front of the problem very soon. The Greek people pay for it all.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u266	The two million euros in the insurance funds why did he owe them, after OSTH went so well and made money?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u267	You know very well that with regard to the EUR 2 million for the insurance funds, Mr Colleague, the government created these conditions because it had targeted it. The same applies to OSCE. You'll find them in front of you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u268	Mr. Comrade, don't answer. Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u269	Ladies and gentlemen, this year's budget and the debate that is taking place in Parliament has many similarities to that of last year. These days a year ago we were discussing the 2017 budget, a budget that was super-fast, as it proved from its implementation and basically based on overtaxation. His prediction of growth of 2.7% has today been revised to 1.6% and we will see where it will stop. Its forecast for an increase in new investment reached 9% and landed at 5.1%. Its forecast for an increase in private consumption of 1.8% was landed in half, at 0.9%. It also showed a serious divergence of revenues from direct taxes in relation to the objective of the revised medium-term. We have all pointed this out to you. But you remain firm in your ideoleptic world. In fact, while you saw that your forecasts, both in growth and revenues, fell into a gap, you come this year and you insist again on the same, namely overtax. Hence the similarity of last year's budget. The only difference, Minister, is that this year you are more honest. It is also a step forward. Favourably and without reservations you say that you are consciously taxing the middle class, that is, the consistent taxpayer and free trader, on the pretext of a fair redistribution of wealth. Absolute admission of weakness, of the creation of conditions and of the environment and of the fight against tax evasion, for which you were cut, when you were in the opposition and had made it a flag, to remember your big words. The fact that you are destroying an entire class, the most dynamic of Greek society and economy, seems to be of no interest to you. But they're not "Rubics", they're not your children, why should they be interested? This is not how you reduce the humanitarian crisis, ladies and gentlemen. You create two Greeks: Greece of many, the poor and the very few, the very rich. Rather, the Minister of Finance, who is absent today, should reread Keans and perhaps he should come to this letter, which he referred to in previous years as the rapporteur for the opposition at the time in the relevant debates. In the end, however, we are not what we are saying, but what we are doing. Your rhetoric and placements contrast fully with what you do. The conclusion to which one can conclude is one: either you do not know or deceive the world. And even today you are optimistic. Now where this optimism comes from, only you can understand it. Ladies and gentlemen, it is well known that the debate and the vote on the budget is a top parliamentary procedure. It is through it that public finances are served, that the development of the budget is clearly seen in the light of social justice, that it is directed at tomorrow and serves the citizen. Unfortunately, the budget under discussion does not serve these objectives, because it is also a central budget, with an emphasis on indirect taxes, which are also socially fairer. And while the countries of the European Union are growing growing, our country remains a reality in the past. What are your speeches, Mr Minister, where are you in the Chair, which are you doing through the budget for agriculture, livestock and fisheries? And how will the inhabitants of my rural district, if you like, of the 2nd Thessaloniki, in Lagada, in Soho, in Koufalia, in Mechaniona? What are your speeches, Mr Pitsirla, to relive the now dead industrial region of Sindu and other craft parks in our region? What are your speeches, Minister, to create a framework for attracting the expatriate Greeks and the Prime Minister to come and invest in our country? What's that frame? How is it specified in your current budget? How can this be done, though, when overtax has become your second nature? It's not coming, ladies and gentlemen, it's just growth. In the way you practice administration, share and spread poverty in the country. Even the decline in unemployment, for which you are concerned, is also a virtual one. New forms of industrial relations...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u270	Is it a fall?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u271	Listen, Mr. Colleague, don't complain. ...a partial and rotating employment and the elastic forms of work and the generation of 360 euros, created by you, prove the truth. I cannot, unfortunately, go into many details of the budget. I will, however, dwell on a number of points that create the framework for your policies. The high VAT 24% currently accounts for around 63% of the products consumed by a household. The ETUC is falling by EUR 238 million, and that is what you call a philosophical policy. You are bringing a new 50% reduction in heating benefits. You are bringing the abolition to the discharge of medical expenses. You bring the 350 million reduction in medical care. Remove all benefits to beneficiaries of social solidarity allowance. Remove unemployment benefits for new entrants on the market. You are abolishing the 1.5% discount - the budget is there - for withholding tax. Remove the 50% reduction of VAT on the islands. Overall, new measures in wages, pensions, contributions and social policy amount to EUR 1.9 billion in the new budget.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u272	Mr Anastasiades, you must be slowly completed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u273	I shall conclude, Mr President. I imagine you understand that these do not affect the possessors and possessors but the poor and popular layers. The term'red line', which you referred to in the past years, in the past, is no longer heard by you because there are no red lines for you anymore. You accept everything and sign what is brought into you and that is what you call a proud policy. Nevertheless, you insist that you characterise the development budget as a development project, when it falls short of that of 2017 and this is a pure assumption and a confession of failure. Ladies and gentlemen, the truth is that you have failed. It's hard to admit, but that's the reality. For the country there is a direct change of page. He has to return a page. But it won't be you on the next page. You will be recorded in history as the worst government in postmultiple. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u274	Thank you, Mr Anastasiades. The Deputy Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Mrs Antonopoulou, has the floor. Madam Minister, you have the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u275	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the 2018 budget, like the two previous budgets of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, was drawn up in an environment of genuinely severe fiscal adjustment, but it had and still has two main objectives, which incorporates them. The first is to restore the credibility and dueness of the country. That bet is earned day after day. It can be seen from the rapid and efficacious outcome of the third evaluation. However, the best proof is that Greece has regained its credibility and we see it through the decrease in the interest rate of the ten-year bond, which for the first time fell to 4.5%, i.e. at 2009 levels for the first time. The second aim is a mild and fair adaptation, without social exclusion, to alleviate inequalities and return the country to a new normality, not the previous but new normality. The strategy of soft adaptation is achieved by the agreement that we have reached on smaller surpluses - whether you want to admit it or not, it is smaller than the surpluses that we have agreed - together with an overall policy which, despite the cries that exist, leads the country to stability and the path of development. In fact, given that the rate of growth next year will grow, we will have the financial space we need to reduce taxation and continue to strengthen the social state even more, which you have with your own policies. The loss of 25% of GDP in the four years 2010-2014 has not only shut down thousands of businesses, it has not only launched unemployment from 7% to 27%, but has also brought about a series of measures that have broken down what we call a social state. This disastrous combination of dissolution of the economy and the rule of law nowhere became as noticeable as in the labour market. Ladies and gentlemen, the reduction of unemployment cannot be called into question. Since the 26.5% you delivered it to us, we have reached 20% today. Our assessment is that in 2018 we will, of course, have a further decline. We still have a long way to go. However, 5.5% - 6% reduction in unemployment is very important for the two hundred and sixty thousand people who were unemployed and now have a job. I would like to point out that on the other hand, over 7% that went to 27%, in the years 2012-2014, we had a hundred seventy-three thousand jobs lost. Youth unemployment nowadays, no matter what you say, has fallen by 10%, i.e. 52% has gone to 42%. After all, as you know, this government's primary objective was the immediate support of the weakest sections of our society, those most affected, including the unemployed of course. We will continue to work in this direction. On the basis of the budget and the Community's resources, we have streamlined these resources and we have achieved something that I will describe in two minutes. However, I would first like to talk about the flexible forms of work that have been involved in recent years. For the SYRIZA Government - ANEL, the decline in unemployment does not go through the strengthening of tyre relations and this is a line between the New Democracy and us, which is indelible. No one can forget that the reduction in wages and the abolition of collective agreements has taken place over your days. In fact, you do not have an alibi at that, because at that time many in your own Council at that time said that this is the way to get out of the crisis. However, even if we assume that you were obliged to bring these measures, you are now continuing to co-operate with those scientific institutes that claim that the deregulation of the labour market in Greece well has and its reform will not be helpful for growth. It's a separate and indelible line between us. We're with the world of work. How about you? Critical Opposition recently criticizes the government for part-time work. Since unemployment is falling, since indicators are positive in this direction, something has to say. So parttime work is what it is about to do. Sadly, however, you forget when you mention data selectively, that every September, October and November in Greece for 30 years we have had the phenomenon of reducing jobs because we have seasonality - this is our economy - and on the other hand, September, October, November, of increasing part-time employment. That's always true. What do you forget to say to us, when we hear you say that for October, or November, parttime work increased? You forget to tell us that in September 2013, on your day, full-time jobs were at 35%. You forget to tell us that in October 2014 it was less than 40%. The alert difference between us is not to compare month-months at these rates, if it is 40% or 42% or 45%. Full-time was 65%, and you brought it to 50%, 48%, 47%. [[The end of the speaking time of Mrs. Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] I'm gonna need two more minutes. The warning difference between us is actually one. We want development with social benefit for the worker, while they want growth through heated competition and a further reduction in labour costs, whatever social costs this entails. And in order to come to an understanding, a reduction in labour costs means one thing. It means a reduction in wages and accelerating parttime work. We don't live in blessings or in extremisms. We will restore normality in the labour market through fair growth, through intensive audits of the EIA, through the reintroduction of collective labour agreements, but also through the implementation of very specific actions to reduce flexible forms of work, which we are already looking at. With the programme of conversion of paid employment services, we give an incentive for the first time to convert falsely stated self-employment into what it really is, i.e. employed work. In addition, we are planning and implementing a programme in the next few years which will give a premium to enterprises that turn part-time into full-time. I would also like to remind you that so far we have supported around the eighty thousand unemployed who have joined a series of support programmes. One hundred and twenty thousand have found a job. One in three now, with the streamlining we have done in the previous training programmes, for which the allocations of programmes that have been implemented and started in their day and today, we find a job. Why? Because we have based on the diagnosis of the needs of the labour market and we do not make a voluntary policy. Through these programmes we support the unemployed in finding a job. I repeat the numbers: One hundred and twenty thousand who have joined the programs have found work. In conclusion, I would like to say this: you have also made an effort to get the country out of the deadlock, which you have certainly led through political decades. You made an effort. And we, taking over the government, are also making this effort. A brief statement with five elements is as follows: Gross fixed capital formation, this means investments, for 2012-2014, minus 33% on your days. You promise to bring in investments. Nowadays, plus 6.6% investments. Industrial production: You reduced it by 7% this two-year period. We increased it by 8.7%. Building activity: You minus 51.4%. We're 11.5% plus. Retail trade: Mine 19.6% you. We balanced and stirred this descent. In conclusion, I would also like to say that the general government deficit is the three-year average. You're 3 billion. We're 1,6 billion. Unemployment: Two hundred thousand unemployed less. Employment: two hundred and sixty thousand more people are working today. The numbers are clear. Here we go. In 2019 we will have the opportunity to discuss the results of our own policy, our own budgets, and that is where we will be confronted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u276	Thank you, Minister. Mr Athanasios Papadopoulos has the floor on behalf of SYRIZA for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u277	Obviously, the 2018 budget is difficult, tortured. It has to respond to very complex tasks. The main thing is to prepare the country for its exit from the suffocating guardianship of its lenders, to stop Greece from being financial protector of lenders. You don't want it? Is there a Parliamentary ward that doesn't want such a duty?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u278	The New Democracy!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u279	Obviously, with our own perspective, for our own tasks, for our social vision, for our own ideological political searches, the 2018 budget is not left, but has left sensitivities, it has left priorities, it has the stamp of our own wills in very difficult conditions. Yesterday a delegation from the Federation of Hospital Doctors of Greece and Associations from many hospitals in the Lecade - and military - met representatives of the parties' health groups, except for the Golden Dawn that they did not want to see and asked for very specific things, not what you hear from the WTO's demonology. They didn't talk about missing sheets or missing syringes. They talked about issues relating to deficits that continue to exist in staffing, with tasks that we have to do with those who are valuable to the health system and work without permanent employment relations, and we need to find how to keep them in the health system. And all this needs to be done on the basis of the possibilities offered by the 2018 budget and with what we will have, when we are really going to get out of the suffocating custody and make choices for our revenues, for our expenditure, for the recruitment of health, education and wherever they need elsewhere. I don't know what New Democracy said in the memo. I'll testify for the Minutes as well. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Athanasios Papadopoulos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] However, our will concerns a universal, comprehensive, quality, public health system which provides everyone with equal access and quality services free of charge from prevention, primary care, care and rehabilitation. Today's reality in hospitals, in the National Health System, has problems. But listen a little. Improving the health of the population and successful reforms aimed at addressing long-term weaknesses of the health system in Greece sees the Commission in a report published on 23 November 2017 on the health profile of the twenty-eight Member States. Successes include the creation of a unique buyer of services, the standardisation of the compensation package, efforts to increase the use of generic medicines, to improve the administration of hospitals, to broaden the application of clinical guidelines. It also recognises as an important achievement the universal access of citizens to health for the first time - the Commission says so - while it stands in particular in the preparation of the new Greek primary health care plan, what we are implementing, what some of you called it 'Soviet', 'usable'. And the Commission thinks it is a very big achievement in its report. For today, ladies and gentlemen, the first three local health units in Eusmos, the Municipality of Paul Mela, the Vineyards and Menemen Thessaloniki, may be inaugurated, but many others are ready. Why - listen a little - all recruitments for nurses, social workers, health visitors, administrative staff have been made. Two hundred and nine general physicians, two hundred seventeen pediatricians, sixty - eight pathologists, have been hired. And all of these will enable these local health units to become a project financed by the European Social Fund. That is why, and when you say about the budget for 2018, you should take into account all the funding from various programmes. I do not have the opportunity to analyse all of this, but I think that the Health Ministers, who are on the table today in Thessaloniki, will provide detailed information on what exactly is the reality, what recruitment is to be done, what is going to happen, why we are going to send the autonomous emergency departments as our priority in the system and all these issues, which show that our direction for a quality and effective public health system will be fulfilled. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I conclude, Mr President, by the fact that speeches which have been made so far - and Merope Jufi - before the Minister, but also by the President of Parliament, allow me not to address many other issues that I intended to do. I would, however, like to see what investment is going on in Greece at this time not to give you much information. For the emblem of many choices to make a very large investment in the Greek, I considered it my duty to visit the offices of "ELLINICAN SA" and the text they gave me - I will present it to Parliament - prove that all that was our duties, all that surpassed the obstacles, which were there, can lead us to conclude that we will soon have the Presidential Decree, which will even proceed with construction work in 2018. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Athanasios Papadopoulos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And I'm closing up with this. Yesterday I attended a very interesting speech at the Concert Hall of an American intellectual, who raised the following question: Will Europe not apologise to Greece for what it has been doing and what it has not done? It is not a matter for us to apologise to the European Parliament. The issue for us is to change the correlations of power, to change everything that will allow Europe to have a new political and social contract, which is the Europe we are visionating. That is what we want political alliances for Europe. And I think that of all those who are speaking here, only the position of the new movement of change, dear friends, in the speech that Mr Kremastinos has made here leaves some hope that there can be a policy of alliances on Greece of substantial reconstruction and in a Europe which is Europe of quality of life, a Europe of social needs, which we want to reflect in its real policy towards our country and which Europe must not only stand in that the Treaty of Lausanne does not change. And we want a Europe that says against the various claims that the Greek border is a European frontier. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u280	Mr Antoniadis has the floor from the New Democracy Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u281	Thank you, Mr President. The debate on the budget, ladies and gentlemen, is the top act of the debate in the House, since it is the mirror of acts rather than the intentions. But let us see the environment in which we are talking about. So far we have known the national contractors, the national canals, and now we have met the national brokers. Mr. Stathakis and Mr. Tsipras sell PPC, the units of PPC, half-price, "birr" with no remorse, no moral barriers. If that's not a national crime, why is Mr. Tsipras hiding? And if it is a great national lie, then it owes a great apologies to the inhabitants of the region and to the employees of PPC. Just now Mr Stathakis said that the sale of 40% is a favourable development. In vain, the residents of the Anargira and the Valtonarians of Florina expect the relocation, the "fresh" of ENPIA, PPC, taxation, as in similar cases of landslides, floods, earthquakes, etc. Even 1 euro was not given to them for construction. Here's the nice thing, ladies and gentlemen: The SYRIZA MPs of the region, at the rallys that are being held to keep PPC from being sold, were present. They are the ones who voted to sell PPC, they will vote again to be sold when it comes to Parliament and very wisely the people tell us: "With the wolf they eat; the lamb and the householder they go and mourn it." Mr. Gavroglou, with the shameful law, allowed the regional universities to be empty and will remain in history as the "degree" of the regional universities, after allowing for the fifteen years the teachers to move to the Athens and Thessaloniki universities. He did all this to serve the wife of his secretary-general, who serves in Florina and has already made her papers to move to Thessaloniki. I am surprised to hear the President-in-Office, Mr Voutsi, and I thought I was in Germany, Belgium, the Netherlands. He didn't find a word about turning police patrols into "taxis" to carry the "Rubics" and all kinds of collectives. He didn't say anything about his relatives being at the reception of the archeologist, Koufontina, to which you allowed him to go out and have coffee with his friends. These are the things you've done. [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] In fact, I heard you say here that you were also praised for the penitentiary, obviously because the Law of Friday was emptying prisons, and today we dare not go around by subway or by bus. Every minute there's a robbery. Even in Florina, robberies have increased over the last two years. We haven't seen a thing like that in years. Another nice thing: SYRIZA Members are selling weapons and SYRIZA MEPs are selling an embargo. Listen to hypocrisy. I'm talking about Saudi Arabia's weapons.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u282	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u283	MEPs are also selling an embargo. Just what I'm saying. Look for them! Hypocrisy in all her majesty. Suddenly you discovered the Yemeni residents who are being tested. Erdogan came here and did not discuss human rights in Turkey, for the villages of the Kurds which he bombs, for the arrest of eight left-wing Turks and Kurdish fighters here in Greece, as a gift to the "Sultan". Cuveda!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u284	You're the only one who... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u285	Cuveda! You organized Erdogan's fiasco - it turned out to be fiasco - to make two photos, one of the "Sultan" in Thrace and the other of Mr. Tsipras in Athens. He's gonna need him for his CV.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u286	Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet. Respect the speaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u287	For all this, we could talk for days, maybe for months. I would like to say this, however, because we are discussing the budget and the time passes. With the bureaucracy that you have supported, the complexity you have fuelled and the hostile climate, which you are creating, do you think that investment will be made and growth will come? And if someone magically brought them out of one door, they'd leave the other. It is your third budget and it will certainly be the last, because the 2019 budget requires blood and tears, because pension cuts will be bloody, but also in wages will be the same. Do you remember what you said about both the 2015 and 2016 budgets and the 2017 budgets? You've all fallen out. The same will be done for the 2018 budget. It's a budget of anti-development, tax-paying, analgesic. I start with the reductions in allowances in two or three points. You reduce by 50% the heating allowance, from 200 million to 100, from 100 to 50, when in Florina we have eight months of winter. I would like to say this here, Mr Juliarakis, and you will apologise for this: you have taken 50 million of the Florina and Melitis district heating when you gathered it - you know it - the cash available for your proud foreign policy and today it cannot be done. There's no money. Even today, being at the beginning of December, the residents of the villages of Florida have not taken the wood. Now they've been approved. How are they going to go to the mountains to cut them off with the snow that there are? Mr. Apostle is here. You promised along with Mr Tsipras that you would include young farmers, those involved in the programme. They're still waiting. Prespes beans have been destroyed and refuse to compensate them. You're reducing the multi-Technical benefits when we have a serious demographic problem. Maybe the only thing you shouldn't have done would have been that. We are conscientiously committing this act to you. You're reducing the NSA and you know where it's having an impact. I'm coming to another very nice, your own firework. Today your newspaper, "NATIONOS", has a front page that tax evasion is out of control. They've come to a point of invoking you even your newspapers. It's this manifesto that you were building for tax evasion in the Lagard fuels and all of that, and you said you'd get 1,5 billion euros a year. And today, in 2017, the limitations for the 2011 lists are beginning. Ladies and gentlemen, these fairy tales of exiting the memorandum do not believe in kindergartens. You have charged the country with 3.5% surpluses by 2022. Let me mention a very nice one. Do you remember the hostage battles you were fighting for when we were going to vote for the excesses? You said that for every 1 million surplus, we're going to make 1 million euros. And soon, the opposition told you at the time - where the whole opposition was to blame - that this will only be done by the surplus of the surplus. Anybody apologized for these lies that were said in here? You repulse the Greek people, to have more than 3.5% surplus and to give these crumbs of shame. And you're not ashamed to mention it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u288	Mr. Antoniadis, please, finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u289	I don't have to say anything else. I'm getting to the end. I don't have time to say it all. I will only tell you, if you want to hear, that in 2015, ladies and gentlemen, the economy and the country were derailed. Your experiments with the raised collars, scarves and earrings, when you went to the European Union, charged the country with EUR 100 billion over the next few decades. In 2015 it will haunt the Greeks for many years and will be the worst nightmare for you. I will close with a favorite slogan your voters say in the squares: "Alexis, remember, your contract is over!" Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u290	Thank you, Mr. Antoniadis. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, forty students and students and three teachers from the 3rd Gymnasium Tripolis (Second Chamber). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, the State Secretary for the Interior, Mr Kollias Tsarouhas, has the floor, and immediately thereafter Mr Mavrotas, the Parliamentary Representative of the River, has asked for the floor. I'm just saying, just so you know who comes from the list. Madam Secretary, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u291	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the 2018 budget, which coincides with our country's exit from the memoranda, demonstrates the determination and effectiveness of the SYRIZA and ANEL government, but above all that the sacrifices of the Greek people have taken place. In three years' time, the country has come to the exit of a crisis that with the governments that created it, not only did it not seem to end, but every year it became even worse. We share the finances of the state and prove beyond doubt what the group of Independent Greeks from its establishment claimed, that Greece is a country that can but had to stop the immunity and the fragmentation of the public money and the property of our people. Beyond all the doubts, today, it has been proved that that situation has attracted some people and that is why they have done everything possible to prevent them from changing and doing everything they can, by exercising opposition to them, to return. I can tell you, as a parliamentarian since 2000, that I have lived through things, supported people, I have passed laws for which I cannot say that I am ashamed, but I am simply controlling myself and I say that I should have done my criticism much sooner - and I am now doing it - and my self-criticism. We remain clearly placed against austerity policies. That is what we are still supporting today, but with responsibility for the country. We have taken full responsibility for the political costs and made an honest compromise with the European partners. We asked for responsibility and the people supported us and gave us their vote to get the country out of the crisis. If we did not take responsibility, we would be able to continue with the status of immunity and subjection to external interests which were unstoppable at home. This option was confirmed by the Greek vote in September 2015. Positive developments today reward us all. The country is consistently driven out of the crisis and that is what the whole of Europe recognises. The Greek people, the only one to whom we account, see and understand our efforts. We don't need polls to confirm it. We see it daily in the situation that is constantly improving, but especially in the fact that the only negative ones that are trying to give us are based on constructed news, on dispersal of fear and on charges without any objection. The representatives of yesterday's system, which is now finally leaving, can say what they want. Reality disproves them relentlessly. This year's budget is the final straight in the course of a country that rises back on its feet. It is the last budget presented under the financial adjustment programme that we agreed with our partners. It is another special budget, but the first with a clear expiry date. The confirmation of our choices makes us even more determined to continue to fight to take the weight off the backs of the Greek citizen. The next period will show the full results of these choices and of our whole design. It is all a commitment to reducing the tax rates for Greek businesses and households, as is the application of more social protection measures to support the Greek family. We will not do one at the expense of the other, as the Opposition proposes, forgetting that, where an open check has been made on the great interests, they have proved to have their profits outside the country, because money, ladies and gentlemen, has no home. Every choice is made on the basis of the efforts of all our people and our country. We are talking about a fair distribution of wealth and equal participation of all Greeks, without privileged ones. The former Ministry of Macedonia - Thrace, YMATH, whose State Secretary I have the responsibility, as a political representative of Macedonia and Thrace, and as the only government presence outside Athens in the Greek region, participates with all its responsibilities and powers in this effort. With limited means, we continue its mission with the greatest possible intensity. Apart from the national issues that we support in every way, our central objective is to strengthen entrepreneurship and production. Agriculture, livestock and craft industries, in areas in which Macedonia and Thrace are already leading us - or may be leading with appropriate political will - are the engine of growth which can make a decisive contribution to the prosperity of returning to our country and, of course, Macedonia and Thrace. The plan and will are tabled. And the Ministry of Macedonia - Thrace will do everything possible to ensure that northern Greece takes the lead in this effort. Since the first time I took over, I have managed to unblock the payments of investment projects, which have been delaying for many years. We paid total aid of more than EUR 30 million to companies in northern Greece. Under the Investment Law, grants of EUR 29,513 000 have been disbursed since January 2015. By the end of the year, 2017, we have planned and taken the necessary steps to make payments of EUR 13.5 million. We are therefore talking about a total of EUR 50 billion that fell into companies in northern Greece. You will allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to thank the deep hearts and to congratulate the officials of the Ministry of Macedonia - Thrace, who, as few as number, are doing great efforts, are overcoming themselves in order to be consistent with their responsibility for the anxiety that investors have with whom we work with. [[At this point, the ending bell of the speaking time of the Mrs. Secretary is ringing.]] You'll give me two minutes, Mr. President. For example, as the programme is under way, we have received dozens of investment projects from Macedonia and Thrace, of more than half a billion euros. These are thirty-four business projects, seven new independent small and medium-sized enterprises projects amounting to EUR 81.5 million, 13 investment projects amounting to EUR 116 million, and thus the investment projects, which I said earlier, amount to EUR 242 million. These investments create seven hundred forty new jobs and ensure the other seventeen thousand eight hundred existing jobs. We are working to promote modernisation, highlight new and innovative proposals and strengthen networking and cooperation structures in all areas of our area. Of course, there are still many problems. None of us believe that the situation is the best today. In particular, more and more must be done for the agricultural sector and the rural family. The economic burdened for many years has set strict limits on what we can do. Fortunately, however, this situation will prevail for some more time. One of the programmes we are supervising and related to the promotion of entrepreneurship is Alexandria Innovation Zone, a development park that will be supported and established by newly-built enterprises, high-quality business investments and technology. Alexandria Innovation Zone this year has already completed the creation of a framework of cooperation with technological and business networks from abroad, with the Municipality of Thessaloniki, with the Aristotle University, with the ‘Aegean AIRLINES’ and with experts from the international programme ‘JASPERS’. In 2018, the sustainability study of the Host Pool of Innovative Activities is also under way to prepare the necessary studies, so that within 2018 the placement and building of the Cave can proceed with the adoption of the planned presidential decree. All of this I must tell you is that it is being done with an extremely shrinking budget and with only three people. It is obvious - as this is a programme which has been announced for ten years, it was drawing money from the state budget without any real objection - that our action has entered a path of integration and implementation. Another area of our competence, even if it does not at first sight give the image of its economic dimension, because it is rightly overshadowed by the much larger message it sends, is the Centre for the Conservation of Athonite Heritage, with responsibility for the approval and execution of technical works within Mount Athos, which is, in fact, the "Ark of Orthodoxy". Its radiation is such that it can attract visitors from all over the world, even other religious doctrines. It is clear, therefore, how important the economic aspect of our efforts is and in that direction. The Ministry of Macedonia - Thrace also provides valuable support to all initiatives coming from the whole of the North Helladic area, thus making the presence of the valuable donor in the efforts of all those who want and can carry out business innovative or cultural proposals and their disadvantage is their distance from decision-making centres. Here I must refer to the excellent work of the Thessaloniki International Exhibition where, for 2018, obviously, with the efforts of Alexis Tsipras and the Board of Directors. The President and his members - and obviously my own - will have the United States of America as an honored country. We hope and work for the best possible preparation for the benefit of both countries and especially northern Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u292	Minister, I would ask you to complete this.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u293	I'm closing, Mr. President. To conclude, therefore, without any desire to triumph and, as I said, being a Member since 2000, I have to make an suggestion to all of you. The conditions for our country finally to enter a course of prosperity, equality and equalisation have been laid down. Respecting the mandate that we received from the Greek people, regardless of the political party it serves and the positions which each of us is serving, we must not let any opportunity be lost. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u294	Thank you, Minister. The Parliamentary spokesman for the River, Mr Mavrotas, followed by Mr Thibaeus and Mr Kelles. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u295	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to begin with a question and a proposal. We are talking about the budget, about figures, about allocations of funds, about comparisons with the past. Why? Can we interfere with these, suggest, correct, like we do in the bills? Oh, no. These figures are written in the marble, at least in the House, because they are actually written in the snow with the adjustments made by the ministers from the next day of the vote. Has there ever been an adjustment of the Ministry's budget in the House, or of the budget we are discussing now? So? What we're doing here is playing a theater. The congressmen will praise the figures, the opposition will dismantle them. We are talking and fighting over numbers that will change without these changes ever passing through the House. So should a ceiling be laid down on how far each heading can be adjusted in relation to what we are voting on? Let us say, for example, that it can change to 10% or 20%, plus - for example, in relation to the initial budget vote, otherwise, if that is the case, it will have to go through Parliament again. The parentheses are closed. That's the proposal, too. But what does a budget do? It shares specific resources - the ones we see in revenue - in specific activities - the ones we read at costs - in order to optimise the benefit to the citizens of the country, the benefit in the short and long term. And because this function of benefit is very difficult to identify objectively, we therefore resort to subjective preferences and set priorities. So let us see what the government's priorities are by going to the budget pages to the central government. That is where we will see, for example, that the money given for two research centres, the Marine Research Centre, and the Observatory is less than what is given for the three political offices of the State Ministers. The first will be found on page 116 and the second on page 131 for the curators: 1.37 million for the research centres compared with 1.41 million euros for the political offices. I am referring to another example. We have an increase since 2017 in 2018 by 12 million in the budget for the General Secretariat of Religious Affairs, while at the same time we have a reduction in the funds for higher education since 2017 in 2018 by 25 million euros. It's just that. And if one searches, one can find more of these dozens, which are indicative of the priorities. Last year the budget for 2017 predicted a growth of 2.7%. Finally, it will come up around 1.4% or 1.5%. That's how the year's gonna close. Now it predicts 2.5%. However, with a fourth assessment we must close in spring, in August we have the end of the programme and possible elections in the autumn of 2018, 2.5% of development seems rather spaceful, as we have the relevant bill for the Space Organisation in Parliament. But let us see, based on 2.5%, its two main assumptions. One is investment. Increasing the gross fixed capital formation, i.e. new investments, by 11.4%. Last year, the corresponding forecasts were 9% and we achieved 5%. The pro-investment climate that the country needs to achieve 11.4%, unfortunately we do not see it. Forward - back to the big investment, forward - back to the privatizations. Dress them up with an ideological cloak and move on to the brake rather than to the gas. Development means production and even production in marketed outward sectors. But production requires investment, but you are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are potential investors, using basically three weapons. Firstly, overtaxation. Secondly, bureaucracy and the blurred framework, which we must admit is not your work but your heritage from the previous ones. But what is your work is your third weapon, ideological intolerance to private business, to business. Apart from investment, the other factor contributing to the growth of GDP, based on the report, is an increase in employment, which will lead to an increase in internal consumption, but on a distorted assumption, that unemployment is falling in normal forms of work. But here it is being done by increasing flexible forms, so a normal job, for example EUR 1 000, is replaced by two flexible EUR 500, so the total available consumer income remains virtually unchanged. But let us look at the budget figures a little more in detail. We will have an increase in taxes close to 1 billion 478 extra direct taxes and 473 million extra indirect taxes. In addition, the ratio of indirect taxes to direct taxes will be 1,32 for 2018, while in 2014 it was 1,15 and the horizontal indirect taxes (VAT, excise duties, etc.) are known. They're the most unfair. It is estimated that some 47 billion will be collected from taxes, which will be shared by the eighteen ministries and by the part of the Public Investment Programme relating to national resources. And in this whole situation we have an increase in public wages by EUR 343 million. Being a little bit in the details of each ministry, one will see that the increase in pay bills is mostly for the central agency and not so much for the first-line functions, such as teachers, teachers, teachers, nurses, police, where there are real needs. Let us see a little bit of the Ministry of Education, which, incidentally, I was looking for in the report to find something on education in Chapter 2, which is developing the strategy for each Ministry and while I found it for health, civil protection, defence, etc., I found nothing in Chapter 2 of the report on education. You have either forgotten about education in the rapporteur's report or has nothing to do with it. To go to the numbers, we see an increase in wage bills at the Ministry of Education, only for the central agency, by 11.5 million euros. Shouldn't this money go to primary, secondary or tertiary education? In other words, we have recruitment, appointments, increases, allowances to the post, rather than these resources going to the front line, where they will actually get a place. Also in the Ministry of Culture, the General Secretariat of Sports has reduced the total amount - from 56 million - to 54 million - but this is where the costs of remuneration have increased. Let's get some overrun. I have heard many ministries and MPs from the Coupling to give out over-excession and social dividends to the fight against tax evasion. And that's where the numbers don't support the myth. We had 237 million certified fines from the Lagard list and 45 million was collected. In the Borgians list, 10.9 million accredited and received 140,000. In the foreign transfers, we had about 400 million confirmed and 44 million have been collected, i.e. 11%. The surplus, however, of course, cannot be based on verified revenues, but on revenues received. Yeah, well, chase her off the tax evasion unresolved, but don't tell the fairy tale that overrun is the fight against tax evasion. Overtaxation is also great insurance contributions to the FBI. Also, over there, to the EPC - I am passing away - the calculations of insurance contributions are still made on the basis of the incomes of 2015, without any netting. And by the way, I don't see that happening within the budget. Of course, because I heard the President of Parliament a few hours ago, partly beyond his role, attack us because we are making opposition if he complains that we are not saying the good things of the government, to remind him of the days when SYRIZA was in the opposition how praised the government. Anyway, because I have always believed and believe that the exit from the crisis is a team sport and not a "Panathinaikos - Olympiacos" game, but a national team game and a national team is not a rhetoric of "or we are ending or ending" - to be explained - I had in mind two - three positive things that have been done in the last few days, so that the President does not complain and I will say so. So I saw the Minister's decision - not a bill or a presidential decree - on the recruitment of doctors from the ERC, even for six days. He received a hundred and thirty comments. We put this into the positive, provided that the proposals that are good and that this is not only the procedure for seemingly. The second positive was the invitation to tender for the Secretary-General of the Ministries, Directors-General and Administrative Secretarys. The disgrace here, of course, is that we should be imposed on us by the exodus of public administration. So managers’ choices, based on their knowledge and not their acquaintances! We must finally leave the dictatorship of the "clatariot" that is clinging to our country! To conclude, I should like to say something about the proposal for a law that we tabled together with the Democratic Assent a few days ago. Apart from measures on first home auctions, we also included the suspension of an increase in VAT on the thirty two Aegean islands and the proposal to submit proposals within three months by a relevant committee. Many people wonder - and they put it to us - whether there are equivalents, whether they are studied and how we are going to do it. Let me remind you that we are not talking about Mykonos, Santorini, Paros, Rhodes, Corfu, etc., but about islands such as Chios, Lesvos, Samos affected by the refugee crisis. So here we have and we say: the surplus target is 3.5% for 2018. We in the budget say that we will get 3.82%. 0.32% above is about 600 million euros. In 1/10 of this comes to create an equivalent suspension of the increase in VAT on the islands, where the difference is estimated at about EUR 65 million. In closing, ladies and gentlemen, this budget is a budget - a wishful, government tactic, a budget with which we disagree with the policy mix that it expresses and is based on insecure assumptions based on the recent experience of your Government. The government does not do well to achieve the growth figures, but it does very well to achieve the numbers of surpluses. We must, however, get out of this vicious circle, and the recipe is one: Investment in sectors that produce market goods, especially export. They need investments, they need reforms. But the basic reform that the government needs is in the mindset. The demonization of business and the dedication of stateism are the burdens that keep us behind. So when, throughout Europe, it slowly begins to grow, we here hold an umbrella, the umbrella of idealism and resistance to change. But it takes a lot of change to get our country back on track. And in order to change the country, we must first of all be determined to change ourselves. The change, therefore, is the urgent need and not the nostalgic memory. And this change is slowly beginning to get under way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u296	Thank you, Mr. Mavrota. Mr Thabeas has the floor from the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group and then Mr Kelles. Here, Mr. Thebes, you have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u297	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the budget that we are debating is a budget for fiscal stability, a budget - a station for exiting the crisis, as has been pointed out several times here today. It comes at a favourable moment for the Greek economy, as the yields of Greek bonds have been significantly reduced, a record has been recorded since 2009 in the fall of bonds and a return to growth is beginning to become apparent. Of course, it is not just the government that says so, the institutions, the European partners say so, the economic players and the investors. The only of course who claim the opposite is New Democracy and occasionally the Democratic Partnership. In relation to the social dividend, we will stand on some things. For the third consecutive year we managed to catch the budget targets and proceeded for the second year in the distribution of the social dividend. This money is clearly and is not some form of charity. It is a fair reward for citizens' labour and at the same time a tool to rekindle the market, stimulate the purchasing power of citizens and small and medium-sized enterprises. It is characterized by many crumbs and charm. EUR 580 has been granted on average so far to over one million of two thousand beneficiaries. Do those who call them "fly," any poor neighbors have? In fact, because many of those who call it, only the jacket they wear does a lot more. It is a given, ladies and gentlemen, that thousands of our fellow citizens with the 580 euros will make the winter with oil heating. We've forgotten 2012-2013 smog. I come to the development issues. Overcoming the objectives achieved in the previous two years, but also the targets expected for the current 2.4% surplus compared with 1.75%, have contributed to restoring international credibility to Greek public finances and have created the best conditions for returning the country to international markets. On the contrary, with previous governments, we have exceeded predictions and exceeded the target of revenue. But for us, growth rates are not enough. We want social development. We want growth in a completely different model than what we inherited. And here is our difference with what Mr Mavrotis said earlier, that the development we want, the way in which the policy will be distributed, and we will move on, has nothing to do with a previous model of settling and more general consensus. The previous policies were known and led to this point. There is a great deal of talk, and in particular the opposition press is dealing primarily with the issue of overtaxation. Really, who's talking about overtax? The ones who saw and see the taxes only as a case involving the under-weeds in question? How many years have we said that expression? How many years has this policy been implemented? We therefore clearly say that taxation is a tool for redistributing wealth. At the end of the memorandum, next August, we believe that there is room and time for a fairer tax policy. It is no coincidence that all the neoliberal forces around the world are generally speaking about lowering taxes. Really, what taxes are they talking about? Did the pain catch them for the middle and low social strata? Of course not. They just want to speculate more without sharing the wealth they have accumulated. What citizen does he really think that the New Democracy can make a fair tax policy? The New Democracy talks about cuts in public spending. So you're fired? Otherwise, let us say: will eight and a half thousand cleaning workers be hired to the municipalities and their hostage be stopped? Are there badly appointed to the hospitals and other successors of the SAP of the previous decade and some of the previous century? Are firefighters being permanently permanent? Let's go out and tell these people what they're talking about. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, please. I want to raise the issue of tax evasion. Really, if the New Democracy had agreed on a 4.2% target instead of the 3.5% we agreed on, where would taxation now be? What overtaxation is the New Democracy talking about? For the one we have with the present government or the one Mr Mitsotakis would move on? Does anyone still believe in the New Democracy that it can hit the tax evasion? I don't think so. After all, legal and moral offshore is a family sport. [[Mr DIMITRIOS KRIMASTINOS]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that the attack you have made against the government not only did it to appease it, but also to cover your programmable nakedness, ultimately your political inability along with your liberal dogmatism, which naturally led the country to bankruptcy. The Greek people know you not because you are the same persons - who have honoured, after all - but because they know that you are the same incompetent and so unrepentant.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u298	New Democracy MP Mr Kelles has been given the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u299	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, these days we are still discussing a budget of the longest-lived Memorandum Government, a government that would change Greece and Europe. Finally, Greece has changed it - in the hand, however - since it has succeeded in poorening the middle class, even celebrating the distribution of a dividend on the legacy of Greek society and especially the weak. Every day Greek citizens see their incomes being depleted, the EKT abolished - which, of course, the rich do not - the main pensions are subject to multiple reductions, the amount of supplementary pension being doubled, the heating oil allowance for the second consecutive year being halved, VAT and tax rates rising continuously, so does EKA, which, after this year's shock, is going up another year. Every day Greek citizens in this economically suffocating environment created by overtaxation see the risk of losing their first residence and by whom? Of those who said 'no house in the hands of a banker'. You have reached such a point that you accuse New Democracy of protecting the first residence and why he did not auction. Mercy, ladies! Mercy! What exactly do you say to the Greek people today? How will the last Memorandum of Understanding be passed and then with a magic wand, after next summer, everything will be magically, we will return to bliss. You hide, however, that you are fully responsible for the current situation. You loaded the country with two unnecessarily memorable memorials, pledged the country's property to the excess for a hundred years, sold out literally everything that could help to develop the place, put a brake on any serious reform that had begun and all that, of course, brought your signature wide. Recover that he has signed a new pension and tax reduction for 2019 and 2020.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u300	In the memorials, who put us in?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u301	Dear colleague, listen and don't like it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u302	Please don't have a dialogue now!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u303	You did, of course, sign your signature on the sale of war materials in Saudi Arabia, but the sale was broken. Since everything was well burned, as you claim, why is it broken? The Prime Minister himself gave a reply here to the House: 'Why did he go in', he says 'another intermediary'. It is worthy of historical record to support cooperation with arms traders for the sale of military materials to the most indestructible terrorist organisations on the planet. I'm guessing for the left-wing moral advantage you won't dare say a word again. Ladies and gentlemen, in this respect: the third budget for austerity and bleeding of weaker economic citizens. With what magical recipe? Pension cuts, cuts and abolition of social benefits and increased taxes. It is EUR 1.9 billion the additional measures for 2018. What does the budget for the new year provide for? It provides for a reduction in the CSR by EUR 238 million. I imagine this is about the rich. Removal of the deduction for medical expenses EUR 121 million. That's a hit on tax evasion! Increase VAT on the islands of 50m euros. Is this the VAT you said that if you increase, will you resign? Reduction of the heating allowance 58m euros. Are the beneficiaries of this allowance really prosperous? Pension freeze of 328m euros. Who? You who promised the thirteenth pension. Payroll cuts for a hundred and fifty thousand teams. No matter how many people dress up in the khakis, you're no longer believed. Of course, the abolition of allowances for those entitled to social solidarity benefits. Of course, they cannot want them all the poor of their own! You say that you have overcome every expectation, seeking beastly results, Minister of Finance. I'll take it. Can I ask you something, Mr. Juliaraki? Did you get a target? Oh, no. Is the Greeks' available income increased? Oh, no. Were the deposits increased? Oh, no. Was there a tax relief in any sector, a reduction in contributions? Not even this one. Did we catch Joker, and we don't know, you guys, in this country? How have we been surpluses when you assessed growth of 2.7% for 2017 and are officially expected to be around 1.4%, while in 2018 there is a 2.5% growth, when all your forecasts are constantly being revised downwards? Where, then, do these beastly surpluses come from, gentlemen of the government? I'll tell you where they come from. They come from the beastly bleeding of the Greek society and of each Greek family on the one hand and the unpaid debts on the other. Can I ask you something naive, Mr. Juliaraki? When, with such high taxation, you achieve such high surpluses and even a reduced GDP, with what facet will you ask for tomorrow's debt cut? Let me say a few words about education. Regrettably, education is experiencing days of sad regression with full - time tests in absolute darkness. In the morning the Prime Minister breaks them down, the Minister returns them. Is the abolition of the pan-Hellenics going to come about? What year? And for who? What are the changes? Experiments with the new high school and unprecedented slander have upset the entire educational community in the most critical period. Professional high school's broken down. Can I tell you what happened to Larissa? We arrived in November of this month until the Minister appreciates signing the operation of a few parts. But again, some other departments closed down, like the PSA in Farsala. You've turned the universities into asylum-handling ideas into an iniquity asylum. You see them yourself: SEE beatings, professor pre-collapsing, vandalism and so much more. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Give me a minute, Mr President. As for the Greek-language education abroad, it is likely that the children of the indigenous children of a lower god should be viewed as the hammering that you have brought to education sends children away from the Greek schools. Can I say a few words about the health that Mr Papadopoulos said before? Subscribing continues everywhere. However, it seems that the needs of the ERT are more urgent. Sub-financing is increasing. EOPYY from an independent organization has become a simple directorate of the Ministry. Why is that? The waiting lists in hospitals have no end, while the late payments to private individuals have hit red. He said Mr. Papadopoulos before we inaugurated three TOMYs today. Can I ask him something? I can't see him. He's gone. Do these TOMY doctors have any doctors, or is it just the staff and the gardeners? Why you can't question that the offer of doctors for TMIs is below 40% of the required needs, and is commonly confessed. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] And today for your bad luck - it is probably not your luck, it is the Greek people, the Greek people - the newspaper "ELLERIA" has a front page: "Surgeries are being cancelled at the university hospital". Do you know why?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u304	Please, Mr. Kelles, finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u305	We have time, Mr President. Just give me a minute. You sent an anaesthetic to the Ministry yesterday at the Hospital of Lamia and another one on Friday. Can I tell you what's so funny about it? It is the fact that 50% of the surgery carried out at the University Hospital of Larissa is one of the nearby hospitals. So what are you doing? Do you uncover your head and cover your legs? Because I don't think that tactic is very good. And who's making the complaint about the cancellation of surgery? LAG doctors and university doctors, the doctors at the University Hospital. As I see Mr Apostle here, it is an opportunity, Mr Apostleu, to say that I do not know whether I want to laugh or cry with your announcements. You have announced, three times, the abolition of the tax on wine. The other day, the Prime Minister said that the reduction in the tax on wine was being studied. What's gonna happen anyway? Is it bad luck to tell the truth once? Say, we'll abolish it or we'll reduce it or we'll leave it as it is. What's the matter?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u306	The tax...(not heard.)
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u307	Can't you see there's desertion? We're waiting for your answer. And answer something more. The “GENERAL DECLARATION” programme which beneficiaries have been unpaid since 2015, when will you pay it?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u308	Mr. Kelles, please don't ask questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u309	I don't. I'd like to make a reference to the laundry benefits.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u310	Finish it, please. You've reached nine minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u311	Mr President, they have all spoken for over eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u312	You've been talking nine minutes. Time is six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u313	I'm done. Multitudes, therefore, are not entitled to the solidarity allowance, because they are subject to luxury living tax, he says, because they have a car of 1929 cubic centimeters. What are the kids gonna do with it? Put them on the bikes? Chekouri to family allowances in the third blocks, to the multiples. Is there a demographic problem for you? In any case, ladies and gentlemen, the problem of the country is one: you have allergy with merit, with competition, by rewarding every successful effort. You want an equation down, holding this place hostage. The real exit from the memorials presupposes exactly the opposite path, the path of reforms, political change, the path that Kyriakos Mitsotakis shows with the agreement of truth he has signed. This is the only hope for the place, and you will soon be aware of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u314	First of all, I would ask that the time is respected, because when we are all talking nine minutes - I am not only addressing you, Mr Kelles, but to everyone - some will not speak. You can see it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u315	Everybody's gonna talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u316	Not everyone will talk. If everyone talks nine minutes, not everyone will talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u317	No one spoke for me for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u318	Mr President, I would like the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u319	Mr. Juliaraki, wait a minute to announce the school because you have to leave and then I'll give you the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty-two students and students and three teachers attending from the 1st Filipida High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Minister Juliarakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u320	I had decided not to intervene in the procedure for two reasons: first of all, for the economy of the debate and, secondly, for the debate to develop here in plenary in a smooth manner. But since he asked me, rhetorically I imagine, the speaker of the New Democracy, I will only take one minute to answer the two questions he has asked. First of all, he asked if the 2017 budget is catching a target. I would like to say that each budget sets one objective, one single objective, the objective of the primary surpluses. Both in 2017 and in 2016 and in 2015 these three budgets caught the goal they had set and I would say that they first caught him in the country's post-government history. No other government before 2015 had a budget target.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u321	Depends on how.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u322	Did you get him, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u323	The budget is public finances, Mr Varvitsiotis, it does not set a development target, it provides for development. Let us first of all find out why the budget is being submitted to Parliament and then discuss it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u324	Overtaxation!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u325	Let's go to the second question now. The spokesman of the New Democracy responded rhetorically, saying that the over-performance of 2017- I imagine that the same thing is said for 2016- is due to over-taxation. So let's see what the 2017 budget says. The tax revenues, unfortunately, of 2017, were below the target. The over-performance of 2017 is solely or almost exclusively due to the over-performance of the ECA. Secondly, the spokesman of the New Democracy said that the second reason for overcompensation is the creation of due obligations. I will repeat this for a multiplier: when you create due obligations, you are worsening, you do not improve the financial result. I say this, Mr President, for one reason: The budget debate is serious, perhaps it is the most serious debate of the Greek Parliament. So I call on all Members, before they are placed, to take a look at the budget and to know what they are talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u326	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u327	Mr President, I ask for the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u328	Look, there can be no interactive debate, because no colleague will speak. This is not provided for in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u329	The aim of the development was not, you didn't get a profit target.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u330	Mr President, what is this insult? And you can't hear him like that. What is it, the MP teacher?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u331	Mrs Vulture, the parliamentary representative will be placed on what you say. If each Member is placed, there will be no debate, you understand that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u332	When? Two hours?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u333	I agree. Parliament's representative will be placed. I agree with what you say, but not every Member personally. Please, Mr Varvitsiotis, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor for six minutes. I would ask that the time be respected.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u334	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I really do not want to be in Mr Juliarakis's position. I did not want to be in the position of a person who is in the financial service who has promised three times to develop on Greek citizens: in 2015 and closed with a recession, we were told with celebrations that he would close with growth and arrived with a marginal recession. For 2017, Mr. Juliarakis and all the financial staff had predicted 2.8% growth and hardly any of the data you have published so far, three quarters, we will reach 1.3%. If we do not understand that this country's main problem is the growth deficit that it has and we are so many years in recession and crisis, and we do not see the budget being used to cope with this development deficit, then I am sorry about the financial staff, because it is far from reality and away from the consequences it creates for Greek citizens. Large investment, small investment, business facilitation has not been made three years now. And, unfortunately, the Greek citizens really feel that these are the three lost years, which deepened the recession, spent money that was there and we have not seen in any case the bulldozers, as some colleague and betoniers said to be released, but we have never seen in any case a glimpse of the fact that in 2018 we will be entering this well-famous growth on solid bases. What happened, Mr. Juliarakis, the goal of getting into the quantitative relaxation program? Last year was the national target. Your Prime Minister here said 'national goal'. We are discussing a budget a year later and you have not been able to enter, but you have now said that the objective is not serious, it is not important, it is not essential. In fact, if this debate were to take place on the budget and on the course of the country and a third person, who could understand Greek, would say that we are living in two different worlds. Those who really celebrate, however, citizens with all the polls show that they do not share these festivities you set up and the reasons for the festivities you are making. On the other hand, there is a serious criticism, in detail, with figures, with specific forecasts to which you have come out, into concrete commitments that you have made and have not made, to which you are not giving an answer. Because my colleague, Mr Kelles, has referred to Mr Apostleou, since April 2015, Mr Apostleou, you have said that you will bring the country's productive reconstruction programme, national planning. Since April 2015 we have been waiting for you to bring him. When are you gonna get him? Probably when you're in the opposition and I hope it's too soon. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not just Mr Apostle who says things like that to say. Unfortunately his colleagues who have been through and from this step a few hours ago, such as the always sympathetic to me, Mr Balafas, said that the opposition does not know how to read, when criticizing the government about how it does not use the funds for refugee and immigration. And the SYRIZA Members convinced that their Minister has actually read it all and we are the ones who are undisputed. I have here, ladies and gentlemen, the October Bulletin of the European Commission for the allocation of financial aid to Greece in relation to immigration. I will submit it in the Minutes, because I want you to find me a number, a record taken from the Greek state in 2017. [[At this point the Member, Mr Miltiadis Varvitsiotis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] If you find her, tell me I don't read the numbers. Please tell me that from the 850 million you have absorbed even one state as a public service, as a Ministry of Migration Policy, as a Ministry of National Defence, as a Ministry of Health, any service within 2017. Not one. If we do not read the evidence, does the Vice-President of the European Commission not read it? Is he also so inconceivable, Mr Timermans, who says 'incomprehensible why Greece does not make use of the great funding for the refugee'? The Dutch Ambassador says the same. I'm putting these in the Minutes too. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Miltiadis Varvitsiotis, presents for the Minutes the above documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I think you've finally lost contact with reality. They're locked in thousands of people on the islands. All international organisations, the UN, the High Commissioner for Refugees, UNICEF, the Council of Europe say that you have created a new humanitarian crisis, unacceptable conditions and that Greece is reported on a daily basis. All non-governmental organisations, whether financed or not, are also denounced and you say 'we have done it, we have shown the face of humanity'. Mr President, I sincerely have never observed a greater number of falsehoods than Mr Kurublis said last night, who appeared at the Step of the House, and it was the first time that the country had acquired Minister for Maritime Affairs. He told us he went to London's Lloyd's for the first time. What was the Minister of Shipping to go to Lloyd's London? Why does he go and trade with the biggest insurer? What's he doing? Is he sitting in the country? Is any business connected with Greek interests? Oh, no. He's going to make his trips. But at a time when he needs to be here, he is not, because Mr Kourublis, like his predecessor, if he had done something, would have absorbed from the hundreds of millions who have even a euro to strengthen the Port House. Getting one thing, ordering a ship, a lifeboat, something. Within eighteen months we received two large ships, three high-speed, twelve inflatable, ninety cars, sixty motorcycles, VHF and GPS for all the port, antipollutant equipment, x-ray machines, trucks. We have received and exhausted all the European funds available to us, 100 million euros. In three years, SYRIZA, they have not been able to absorb one euro of the money available to them, so that our authorities remain without the necessary means, again our people on the islands to suffer from the new waves of illegal immigrants and refugees coming daily. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately for you, there is no room for today's budget to be voted on from our side, but I am sure that your own policy will not be voted on by the Greek people at that time when the time is coming. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u335	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u336	Mr President, can I have the floor for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u337	The Minister, Mr Apostlelos, has asked for a one-minute intervention. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u338	Mr President, Mr Varvitsiotis said that last April I promised to present our strategic plan for rural areas. The least I can say, Mr Varvitsiotis, is that you have not been informed. Not only was there a meeting of the relevant Standing Committee on Production and Trade only on this issue, and since some days forward all the parties had taken the relevant form which was detailed in our proposal, but I will make you displeased - on the basis of your position - if I may tell you that your resignation saw that the specific rural area plan was in the positive direction.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u339	Mr President, I would like to have the floor on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u340	Mr Varvitsiotis, please, there can be no interactive debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u341	I just want to say something simple. I want Mr. Apostleo to tell me what bill he brought to the House and what measures he has introduced to bring this project into operation. We're full of ideas. Tell us what he did in practice.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u342	We shall proceed with the next speaker, Mr Güleka, Member of the New Democracy for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u343	Ladies and gentlemen, I had prepared a speech with the budgetary figures, but by listening to a number of previous colleagues in the ruling coalition, honestly, what I want to say is that we need to reinstate things a little bit on their real basis. You've been ruling for three years, if you don't understand. You obviously didn't understand, because all you're doing is talking about New Democracy. We're telling you that in a month you've been running this place for three years and entered the fourth. Of course, what a tragic irony to discuss SYRIZA's third budget, which brings new measures painful, new tax raid on Greek citizens, abolishing the CSCE for a hundred thousand pensioners, added to the other hundred and thirty-five thousand who have already lost the CSCE. In other words, the bonus you hold, as the government of SYRIZA - ANEL, for the Greek people, amounts to about EUR 1.9 billion new burdens. Of course, the previous bonuses amounted to about 7.5 billion euros. And you celebrate that we are moving towards growth and a clear exit from the memorandum. What exit, ladies and gentlemen? And from what memorial? Outside the third, which you have brought, in order to enter the fourth Memorandum already adopted by you with measures of EUR 5.1 billion, with a new reduction in pensions and a reduction in tax. As for the social sensitivity you said, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, the tax goes from EUR 8,600 to EUR 5,600. Do you think industrialists and shipowners will be hit by a tax reduction? Do you think all the small-scale pensioners, low-paid people will get away with it and pay for it by the people who own and possess it, by their predecessors, ladies and gentlemen? You, the left government, are voting for two or two memos. You who would abolish the Memorandums, HNPH, would bring a third pension, would take the basic salary to 751 euros. What was all this? You've told us that. Ashotumba, we'll tell you. You overthrowded everything, ideology, programs, promises or rather revealed that all of this was gross lies in order to come to power. And since you've been here, what are you doing? Just the opposite of what you said to the Greek people. Where did the famous Thessaloniki Program go and those 2 billion euros, which would you allegedly give for social assistance? Where did the pompous statements and the 'I'm not paying' movement go? Now you do everything, but everything, to keep your chairs a little longer. What is all this up to? The greatest political fraud in Greece since the Migration to date. What did the place of you, ladies and gentlemen, know? A tax storm, a throat of cuts, measures of unnecessarily, continuous failures. You've turned us too far back. You have dug us in the recession with your famous negotiations, from the baroufakia to this day. Now, are you trying to bring back the country where? Date of birth: (a) Approximately 1964. Who pays the bill? The Greek citizens. In fact, the economically weaker ones are being hit harder. Why don't you tell me and don't talk to me about social sensitivity again. Not in the words, but in the plays. Unless there are samples of social sensitivity, MATs and tear gas in the courts through the auctions, MATs in the Ministry of Education against students. You'll tell me, these are left-hand MATs. It's not a right-wing MAT. So, they're good MATs and tear gas are good tear gas. Same for the MATs at the Ministry of Health. If these are susceptibility, if electronic auctions are sensitive, if the first residence of thousands of our fellow citizens coming out in the hammer, why have you abolished Article 2 of the Samara government's Article 2 of Law 4224/2013, which fully protected the first residence up to the sum of EUR 100 000, what am I supposed to say? Today, what are you doing? You protect the properties of the highly indebted households that have been subject to the Katseli law. In other words, those who have not been subject to the Katseli Act lose their real estate regardless of amount. This is your famous sensitivity and this is the famous sensitivity you are showing mainly to our economically weakest fellow citizens. We're waiting for the rest of your government's samples. Because we have heard the unimportant news that - supposedly - the auctions are socially fair, and that they are necessary - now, you discovered this as a government, but you said as an opposition - to support the banking system. Of course, I should like to remind you of the results of your policy: seizures to about one million of our fellow citizens, more than a hundred billion private tax debts and more than a hundred billion red loans. We're waiting to see what you're doing with work. For the right to strike, you have brought an amendment and you have taken it back. We're waiting for you to bring her back. What are you going to do with PPC? Yes, ladies and gentlemen, what are you going to do with PPC? As your MPs say, you're selling it. And there are these MPs who go to the protests this morning, who protest against the selling of PPC by your government and at night they come to Parliament and vote in favour of the sales of SYRIZA - ANEL government. Are we not seeing the project again, as we saw it with TRAINOSE, which you once screamed at, why was the bad New Democracy government selling OSCE and today you sold it bair rather than for forty-five million euros? So much'sensitivity'! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. So in closing, I'll remind you of some evidence. And the data I will mention are elements of the 'ERGAN' system. You know, it's not ours or yours. From "ERGANI" they come out. November 2017: negative record on the labour market. We have 60% flexible forms of work. Full-time is 40%. And not to blame you, it's 41.9% with 58.4%. From EUR 751 in basic salary, we came to Alexis Tsipras' generation of EUR 360 a month. This is the sensitivity and achievements of SYRIZA - ANEL and Alexis Tsipras. They lose two million citizens their discount on medical expenses. This is a sample of SYRIZA sensitivity. Increase VAT on the other Aegean islands. What we've maintained, islandity, you're completely abolishing it. This is also a sign of sensitivity Alexis Tsipras, Government SYRIZA. You reduce the benefits of multitude families and third families, also a sample of your sensitivity. You are cutting about half a billion euros, 561 million euros, from public health. And that's your achievement. You increase insurance contributions for thousands of free professionals with the new budget. That's the banquet we were talking about. And that's your achievement. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I shall end, please. Reduce the heating allowance half. Let's shout from here: "Neuroscope wards, Florina, Pindus, you hear and see how sensitive Alex Tsipras and the current government are? You are reduced to half the allowance you received for heating.’ Ladies and gentlemen, I come from Thessaloniki and today the Prime Minister opened the first, one of the twenty-five TOMY Local Health Units, which he said would be in Thessaloniki. Finally, he says it's gonna be three in total. By 2017, we expected twenty-five - the Prime Minister said it, we were not talking about it - and two hundred and thirty-nine all over the country. So far nothing has happened. Let's send you the account for when and how all this will work. I imagine that, of course, you will not be able to apologize, because it will not be your government. What you can really do to help the place is leave an hour before. If you're incapable, it doesn't mean we're all incapable. And if you failed, it doesn't mean that everyone else is doomed to fail because Alexis Tsipras and the SYRIZA - ANEL government failed. Of course, there is another way to go through reducing taxes, attracting investment, by speeding up reforms. But all of this for your own ideological policy is unknown fields.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u344	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u345	Mr President, can I have the floor for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u346	Please, you have a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u347	A few minutes ago, Mr Varvitsiotis submitted in the Minutes a press release from the respective European Asylum Committee, stating that Greece has not absorbed one euro of what the European Union has given. Yes or no, Mr. Varvichiotis?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u348	You didn't listen well.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u349	I didn't hear well, everyone else heard. This press release that really exists writes in what the European Union is already saying to the various Ministries and NGOs and the High Commissioner has given EUR 398 million, which have been spent, and I can speak on behalf of the Ministry of National Defence and has also been given an account of this money and this account has been accepted by AMIF and ISF. At least let us talk and have arguments about the real and not the impressions that everyone wants to make.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u350	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u351	Wait a minute, I'm sorry, Mr. Varvichiotis. Minister, because you have the time as Minister to speak, there is no interactive debate, because Members are asking for it after the speech and then the others will not speak. Mr Varvitsiotis, for the same reason I would ask you not to insist, because there is simply going to be an interactive debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u352	I have no intention of getting into any such dispute. What I tabled and asked colleagues and Mr Vitsats to find is to tell us in 2017, not in 2015 and 2016, which government body absorbed even one euro. I was very clear about what I said. In this document too, there is not one government body - government, not NGOs or an international organisation - which has absorbed even one euro. You forget that last year you recommended for the better functioning of a new ministry that just acquired a presidential decree, one year later and has not even been able to absorb a euro. Mr. Vitsa, you better look at the evidence. The data related to your Ministry is 2015 and 2016.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u353	2016, so you don't get confused.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u354	All other ministries are 2015 and 2016. But here we are talking at the end of 2017, and I want you to tell me and, if you have it, to present it - and I hope you have something that the Commission does not have at its disposal - even one euro that you have absorbed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u355	Impressions are being created! The ministries and absorptions of 2017 shall be entered in the corresponding report in 2018. But it was clear what you said, Mr. Varvichiotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u356	It was clear what I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u357	Mr Paul Paulakis will have the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u358	Thank you, Mr President. Because in the last few days I have some public dialogue through the social networks with some representatives of the Church, I have to tell my previous colleagues that you need to get it, at last, that other priests have come and other papers are begging. Why am I saying that? I say this because at the end with the headlines made by the newspapers of Marinakis, the former band Labraki, the "PROFILE" of Mr Anastasiades, who still brings the 5 million million, you will believe that this is the reality in Greek society. You are making an opposition, which is opposition to paid headlines, people who have lost access to power, to public money, to big jobs and have been ravaged. So do as if you were the executive bodies of this procedure. To speak with evidence, not in general and in vague terms, not air towels, to say what we have received, what we have done and what we are going to do. I will thus speak on the health field, because I have followed the criticism, which is conducted in various ways in the public sphere, but also in the budget debate, which is another episode of the "destructive and left-hand parentheses", "define everything", "you've pushed the world into poorness", "mothers cry at night" and it doesn't get together. Let's go to the health field. What did we receive from you? We received a medium-term, which said this: in 2015 hospitals and health centres can buy supplies and services of EUR 1,498,000, in 2016 they can buy EUR 1,514,000, in 2017 they can buy EUR 1,5300,000, and in 2018 they can buy EUR 1,5300,000. The market threshold is the ceiling on expenditure that the public health sector can buy as services (health material, medicines, reagents, orthopaedic material, outsourcing services, ancillary staff payments, etc.).). You agreed this thing: a sum of hospitals and health centers. We were renegotiating this medium-term, and we have agreed, and so far we have implemented the following: instead of EUR 1,498 million in 2015, the hospitals bought EUR 1,706 million. Instead of 1,514,000 euros in 2016, hospitals and health centers bought 1,804,000 euros. In 2017, instead of 1,530,000 euros, they bought 1,804,000 euros and in 2018, which you are talking about reducing the cost limit - because you do not understand them rather well, and that is why Mr Juliarakis might also tell you to read better - instead of EUR 1,50,000,000 that you agreed, the hospitals and health centres will buy 1,826,000 euros. In the four-year period, this means EUR 1,068.000.000 more expenditure on the public health sector in the country than you agreed. Already the 700 have been implemented, no will be done, they have been done. That is why it has been possible - and because we are not stealing - to cover two and a half million uninsured people who had thrown them out of the way, and to delete the debts under the second regulation - EUR 150 million - and to abolish the five-and-a-half-means from the hospitals, no longer lacking health and medicine and reagents from the hospitals, because we have been able to increase and increase the expenditure limit in this way. One inmate, then, for this critical size. That's where the memorial hazzar went in and still came in, but for six to seven months, because it ends the well and we go out into the clearing. It's 1,068.000,000 more. Now we're going to the real money terms. Why all of you say, mainly from the right, but also from the left, that "the state expenditure is reduced, i.e. the money that the state budget gives to hospitals and EEAS". Now listen to talk about real money: What did you predict to give the hospitals? You planned to give EUR 1.25 billion and EUR 90 million to health centres. We have increased this amount and provided EUR 1,250,000 from the General Accounting Office for three years. From Mr. Juliarakis' money he goes to hospitals 1,250,000,000 euros. What made the big difference? They did not make it the same income of hospitals, which have also increased, because we rented houses at better prices owned by hospitals, we made better use of the legacy, we did not, unfortunately, dismantle the afternoon hospitals, as we wish. The 90 million own resources have been made 120 to 130 million, although we have lost 20 million of the five-year-old we have abolished. The big difference is what EEAY gave. And I have the evidence with numbers. In 2014 you gave the hospitals 80m euros from EEAY. In 2015, the year of negotiation and all the evil panic that had been done at that time - because elections were held in September - do not always compare with February - we managed to give the ESA 51.927,000 euros to hospitals. In 2016 we gave the ESY hospitals EUR 400 594 000 and by EUR 31-12-2017 it is planned to give - what I am saying is that the warrants are cut - EUR 616 000. And - be careful - these are not all to the EEAY, because they have given in 2015 to military and university hospitals, to the "ONOSEIO" and to the "Papagorgiou" 90 million, in 2016 it has given 173 million to the same hospitals, in 2017 it has given 183 million to these military and university hospitals. So this explains - and here is your great pain, because you cannot understand how this thing is done - that the insured people who receive care are growing do not have any shortcomings in the hospitals and that we have the following effect: In 2014 the hospitals closed down with a 'net position' of EUR 701 million. Net position means what I owe from the past, what I bought the year and what money I have on my fund, that is, I add what I owe from the past, what I bought the year, and I say what money I have on my fund on December 31st. That's the clear spot. They had 900 million debts, 210 million in the funds, closed with 700 million debts. We in the first year, in 2015, closed with 935 million euros, because it was the whole year of the turbulence. In 2016, for the first time in the history of the nursing establishments in the country, the net position of hospitals was over €35 million and in 2017, with figures of October and with a reduction in the year - because we know what has gone, but we do not yet know what they will have paid - the forecast, which is strong - I am not saying air words, as you know, and especially with financial - is that hospitals in 2017 will be closed in a clear, cash surplus, having theoretically paid what they owed from the past and what they have bought this year, EUR 312 million plus 60 million from the Health regions, the Ministry of Health. In other words, they will have a net position of EUR 370 million. That is why the General Accounting Office of the State does not need time to give the amount that he gave to hospitals this year. We do not want to do 'Mega Banca' hospitals because they cannot. And take it, they won't spend it, because there's the limit. And after August 2018 we want to renegotiate some things, because we need to meet needs that we have not met until now, the restoration, and also to cover other things that are not covered today. The public sector is not strong, because you have built twenty-five JCCs and we have worked for a certain period of four, five, which must work. We must also cover a number of other public sector activities, develop structures. We must, of course, start returning to the workers who have put their backs to support the system, some of the wage losses they have had in previous years, and that must be done. So that is - I think - the final answer. I see and leave one, everyone, there won't be any human left at the end of the Civic Opposition. [[Laughers from the wing of SYRIZA]] Because when you talk to evidence, it's different. They come out and they say, as if it's a news release, "destroys..." and so on, they find no needle missing, they'll have Giannako dancing with three, four others - let's say - and they think that's the reality. So, to get this over with, that's the reality. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] Let us say two, three elements - I want your tolerance, Mr President - because I think that should be heard by the Greek people, because we have heard too much at this time. I'm going to another issue concerning EPPY. I'll tell you numbers again, so we don't talk about air talk. In 2015, EEAY took 3,48 billion euros from insurance funds and 525 million from state funding. 2016 took EUR 4.124 billion - real money is this - plus 525 million from state funding. In 2017, 4,768 billion euros will be reached, and so will the year, in 2018. For this reason, the EEAY need not need any more and they lowered what the General Accounting Office of the State, because the EEAY also has certain purchase limits, which are the pharmaceutical costs and the costs of open or closed care it pays to the private sector. So, be careful now what great success is, and here too I must congratulate the services of the EEA, because they have lifted a huge burden: the money benefits we have delayed have been passed by the IKA, but the situation is normalized for the insured. In 2015, we received the EEAS with 2.2 billion debts due. On 31-12-2016 EOPY had 1,135 billion outstanding debts. In 2017 it will reach - with the projection we are making - between EUR 400 and EUR 420 million. It practically zeros them - doesn't it? - to explain and not to get us wrong. This is a huge success of this government, of the SYRIZA - ANEL. It's a huge success! And next year, we're entering another base. It does not create new debts since 2016, because it makes 100% of the deposits. It has paid too many providers over two months and will come to pay to everyone. He's signed contracts with another ten thousand providers, so the patients don't get to pay first and then go get them from the EOPY. These are huge, historical successes in relation to our insurance funds and their course. And I think they show a way to move from now on and to the synergy of the resources we have achieved. [[At this point the closing bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing again and again.]] Mr President, I need more time. Thank you for your tolerance. I want to say a lot more, but I'll say a couple more words. Newspapers, overtime: Other crying there: "We will not have...". What did we receive? The 2014 newspaper budget and by you the forecast for 2015 was EUR 297 million for all, hospitals, health centers, EAW. How much did we do it? We did it 336 million euros. And in 2015 it became 326m euros and in 2017 it became 336m euros. In 2018 it became 353 million euros. We fully cover the growth of the night by 10% and the increase of 6% of the newspapers to doctors and the increased number of doctors already inside. Also, of course, I will not forget that we have given 57 million euros to on-call and overtime staff of hospitals that you had not paid for in the previous years, in 2012, 2013 and 2014. That's why the staff recognizes it, and that's why they don't follow the circus in the mobilisations. And to say two words about the recruitment. Although it's numbers, I have to say them. I cannot say it because I cannot hear the criticism that is being made. Since we sat on the wheel of the country until yesterday, three hundred and ten doctors - permanent staff - from old invitations that we unleashed, four hundred doctors from the notices we made, which so far have been a thousand hundred forty. There's a delay. It's the mechanism. But that is the reality. A thousand five hundred fifty permanent staff from the 2016 4K and 5K notices and the rolling table. It is 186 and 93 permanent staff in the EKA, 130 in Santorini. Two thousand eighty-seven nurses - out of the four thousand we have announced - have taken up the OAED programme and now the ministerial decision to extend their term of office is being prepared for another year. They are two thousand adjunctive doctors from 2015 to 2017, in addition to the five hundred we received from you, five hundred eighty-five other ancillary staff, in addition to the four hundred eighty we received from you and who are prolonging their term of office until today because we need them. They're four hundred doctors and nurses at the CDC for the ICUs. That is why the four hundred thirty couch beds that we received from you in January 2015 have become five hundred sixty-five today and if it had been completed and the last notice would have been opened. Four hundred and seventy-seven places for a programme in refugee from the CEDEFOP. Two hundred and thirty-five positions for the needs of the eastern Aegean, which are different categories, doctors, nurses, all of which are in the health system. Nine hundred and fifty since the 1998 ADP notice. The ones I read so far are ten thousand five hundred. It is in the process of taking office: eight hundred fourteen permanent doctors from the notices that have already been made. Two hundred and fifty of old notices that have been frozen. Thousands of six hundred sixty-six permanent staff from notice 7K, as finally accepted the ASP, with the rate of crippled turtle turtle that goes, to make out - the interim results have taken them out for a long time - for the seven hundred finals. We think the rest will be over soon. In addition, two hundred fifty-seven technical and other personnel from 5K 2017. Thousands of thirty-five take over from the OAED because the competition took place again for the rest. One hundred and eighty-two for the special jobs programme by the Ministry of Labour for the Ministry of Health - multitude, MEDI, etc. Six hundred doctors taking over at TOMY and two thousand remaining staff and a hundred at the Papageorgiou Hospital. These are seven thousand four for which the notices have been made, they are completed and they are in the process of taking office. There are still a thousand five hundred permanent doctors, five hundred of whom will go to LAGs, four hundred fifty in primary school and five hundred more for the needs that the hospitals will tell us. Also, forty rescuers for the EKA and five hundred to be reopened for the TWGs. This sum brings out nineteen thousand six hundred nineteen. Such an injection to the ESS has been done since it was made. That's the reality. That's what we've done. I'm stopping here. I could say a lot about both the EMCDDA and all that we have achieved so far and about various others. But I've been over time a lot longer than I can see. Thank you for your tolerance, Mr President. I mean: in July 2015, we signed a decent compromise. We didn't bow down. We have backed up so that we can get the country out of a well in which you have thrown it, with a strife and a decay economy and a client state that has been dredging in that country for over thirty years.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u359	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u360	Despite what you say, despite the'recruitment', despite the 'disasters', the country is coming out of the crisis and will be a dalle at noon. It'll be August. And then everything will be renegotiated, otherwise, for a Greece, which is really free, which will be democratic, which will have democracy, which will put other productive bases, which will throw away all the state-owned suppliers, who will throw away all the state-owned media that will be able to call back and bring back to work and produce wealth for our children, who have pushed away like the shells. We'll make it. The Greek people recognize the effort we are making, because you can't even catch us in so much! As you have seen, there was no mention in my speech throughout the history of the paradox and the scandals. We will have a lot of meetings in this House and soon to talk about this.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u361	Finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u362	But we on this side are, that's what we're going to do, the people recognize it and in 2019, where the elections will take place, don't have dreams of summer night coming back. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u363	The speaker of SYRIZA, Mr Pavlides, has the floor. I repeat the request that the time be respected, so that we do not have to be forced to ruin our hearts.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u364	Because you are all accusing us, ladies and gentlemen, of the fact that we are all talking about New Democracy and not about our own policy, I shall begin with it. I think that in 2015 we could not create another alternative political proposal within the European Union. In such a given political environment of strong neoliberal policy, with strong negative political ties and a very poor economic situation in the country, there was no alternative political proposal, which was economically viable, socially viable and politically feasible and much more approved politically by society. I think this dilemma was definitively answered in September 2015 with a Program III on the table. However, we have implemented what every credible and socially accessible government should do. What's that? What are these five things you need to do, implementing a specific programme? The first is to implement the program, to respect your signatures, to shape the terms of the financial adjustment and the conditions of growth. At the same time, to implement a political programme that keeps society alive, strengthen health, strengthen education, have a strengthened social policy. Third, pass the tests-- evaluations. Fourthly, you try to do test outlets on the market so that you can regain confidence in both the Greek economy and the country as a whole. And fifthly, get an exit from the memorials and programs so that you have a change of mixture, don't have a credit line, and don't have any new measures to close the Memorandum. What are we doing, colleagues? Let's talk about it. Firstly, we have implemented and implemented the programme with budgetary responsibility. We are within the objectives, forming surpluses - and I will say below - and we are dealing with the sizes of the economy in the terms that we have to deal with, sign and implement the reforms - some were positive, some were necessary and some were necessary and some were not our political choice, yet we are recovering the credibility of the Greek economy and the confidence of the country, we are forming a weaker fiscal adjustment, which has instruments and difficult measures very clearly. What are you doing? Now I'll come to you. In 2014 we received from New Democracy and from PASOK: In addition to all the budgetary targets, the country had to be 1.5% and you brought a surplus of 0.2% at the end of 2014, seven times below the targets, a budgetary gap of 1.3% of GDP, that is, 2.2 billion euros. The program was completely derailed. I think the IMF report in April 2014 is clear. He says the author of the report that the programme in July 2014 was completely derailed. You have brought surpluses in 2015-2018, 3% for 2015, 4.5% for 2016, 4.5% for 2017, 4.2% for 2018. Overall, it is 16.2% of GDP, i.e. EUR 29.2 billion, when, in our negotiations, the surpluses corresponding to 0.05%,-0.5%, 1.75% and 3.5%, were a total of 5.5% of GDP, that is, EUR 9.9 billion. We have managed to free a budget area and save close to EUR 20 billion. What are we doing with these? It is precisely the second task that we should have done. We strengthened social policy in 2015 with emergency humanitarian crisis measures of 100 million, in 2016 with a pilot application of the social solidarity allowance to 270 million, in 2017 with full implementation of the social solidarity allowance at 720 million and in 2018 the social solidarity measures and measures to combat poverty at 1 billion plus 300 million euros last year. Of the 100 million to 1 billion. Taking into account also the studies on child poverty, we are bringing forward the positive countermeasures in 2018 with school meals, the extension of day-care facilities, and dominating the increase in family allowances of up to 40%. There will be an increase in family allowances in six hundred thousand families, of the eight hundred thousand, in three areas of income criteria with popular, classic characteristics, making the benefits possible from the first child possible. Secondly, we have employment intensity, employment support programmes and growth thresholds, thus setting three quarterly steady growths in the country. At the same time, the OAED makes public service programmes by bringing unemployment from 28% to 20%. We are ambitious in 2018 to fall well below 20%, clearly with all the terms of employment relationship and with blocks and stable conditions. I don't want to extend to that. With regard to health and education, we have strengthened structures and staff and, at the same time, incorporated two million uninsured into the system. Because these are not very easy to hear, that is to say, realizing the size of the cost of this story, because you very much love the free professionals, I would remind you that with EUR 5,000 debt to TEBE you were sending the free trader to the self-help. The majority of free professionals are insurers, they are not employees. The freelance professional, with an AMCA number, goes and takes the medical care he is entitled to. These are to understand the difference in our relationship. We have a stable social dividend yield for two years. Above all, we have strengthened those who have actually been affected by the measures and have the least resistance to the crisis today and are the low-pensioners, the unemployed and the employees. With regard to the surplus, I would like to say the following. Obviously, we have told you again that the country's tax policy is reflected in the surplus. At the same time, however, we have the undeclared income, which yielded EUR 711 million and the EBRD's return to EUR 1.1 billion, requiring less absorption than the state budget. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. I have heard Mr Kelles say about the overtaxation created by the surplus. The relevant Minister replied that the outstanding debts - not to say those who do not know from finance - do not, firstly, support the surplus and, secondly, in 2017 from the programme's medium-term objectives we had a reduction in direct revenues from direct taxes of 1.2 billion plus a 2.2 billion tax refund, thus EUR 3.5 billion. It's close to 2% of GDP. That money either didn't go into the cashier or they went in and they got out. They didn't stay in the cashier. So the surplus is not a case of overtaxation. It is also a matter of making use of public spending, namely rationalisation, but also of EKKA's return. We have successful evaluations. Let me remind you that your evaluations have frozen. You had election benefits in 2014, in mid-2014, before you see what financial result you will have at the end of 2014, when we bring dividends at the end of the year, which is the actual performance of the system in both dead political time and not in elections. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will not be late, Mr President. I'm done. I won't talk more than the others. Finally, we have a net exit from the memoranda at lower borrowing cost, close to 8.25% in 2015 and today at 4.5%. I don't want to extend to them anymore. I have heard from Mr Teddy and Mr Koutsouko, the two main rapporteurs of the Opposition, in a crisis of catastrophe, talking about a Armageddon from the SYRIZA - ANEL government. Obviously, I am going to accept a criticism and I am obliged to accept it as well. There is difficulty in the market, shops are closed, the balance is not going well, it is the society. I think no one will deny that. But listening to Mr. Teddy with a style of theater talking about the rich or the poor, saying 'you bring so many taxes and taxes' and repeat them with a popular style of cafeteria, I think he does not honor anyone. We had an obligation to increase revenues in public funds, from taxation, by 1% of GDP, i.e. 1.8 billion. Whether to do it with a tax or a hundred taxes on society doesn't matter. However, tax sharing in more tax fields favours more a popular household. He has to understand that. The logic of the repetition of tax debts makes no sense. I also heard Mr Koutsukouko talking about free professionals forgetting that they "killed" the free professionals. But speaking of 25% of the professions, he forgets the other 75%...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u365	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u366	I shall conclude, Mr President. He forgets the other 75% of the free professionals, who favoured tax and insurance, because he pays 167 euros in the month, when he pays the two-month EUR 800 and 900 euros in the TEBE and knows it very well. 25% of the free trades are compressed. We do not forget this at all, and we owe it very quickly, based on the growth clause, to restore it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u367	Please, Mr. Pavlides, complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u368	I shall conclude with that, Mr President. But since, ladies and gentlemen, you do not have the numbers, I can tell you what your policy reminds me of. Your policy reminds me a little of the words of a Scottish scholar, who said that static science and figures for some people are about like the column of light for the drunk: it is not to be illuminated but to be supported.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u369	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u370	I am saying that, in my opinion. I would simply suggest that you meet in your political criticism and respect the figures that come to Parliament more.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u371	Mr Pavlides, colleagues are protesting. You can say in two words everything. At a theology conference one said: "But I do not have the time to develop the Bible whole in five minutes". And the other said to him: “Say the word Jesus Christ and say it all.” So say what you want in five minutes, because we don't have time. Mr Papatheodorou, Member of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u372	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am obliged to begin and stand at a point in the speech by the honourable President of this House, who spoke more, in my view, as a Government representative. Of course, we have a different view of the functioning of the institutions and that is not bad. I think he fought us. He blamed us. He accused the opposition of doing an anti - SYRIZA front, therefore against the government. I would like to say to that, because it is very serious, that I think there has been a story among us, a story that you have been developing for three years. You started at the beginning with the bad lenders, the bad foreigners, who fought you and would throw the government away. Suddenly some of them became very good friends along the way. The second, according to the Prime Minister, was the media, which wanted to overthrow the government. With some, of course, it was fine for a very long time. Then and always were the interests, the great interests, which are hostile to the government, see it as parentheses and opposition simply enjoys the trouble of these media against you. So what we are hearing today is that the opposition is making a front against the government, a front instead of - SYRIZA. I imagine he meant democratic opposition. The truth is one. As a line of defense you have chosen for three years to build enemies. One of them is the Opposition. And it is the Opposition, because we do not, as I have said, have the same conception of the parliamentary function of democracy. What does that mean? Opposition is to oppose. The opposition is to criticise the government's policy. And the opposition wants to overthrow the government's policy, along with the government. That's democracy. That is why I told you that I had to say that we cannot take this as a serious criticism on the part of the President of this House, who should just preserve the role of counter-population, which is against the government. Otherwise it would be condolence. However, this account, ladies and gentlemen, no longer convinces citizens that citizens live their everyday lives and the consequences of the policy you have chosen to implement. We may be against it. The citizens suffer, like all of us, the consequences of this policy. That is why I am telling you that we are against this policy in the Democratic Reconciliation, Opposition, against this policy we want to confront with you and this policy we want to overthrow. Speaking of the budget, I should like to say this. Austerity constellation for the 2018 budget. As the Minister said earlier, it is a budget adapted to the requirements of the Memorandum commitments, according to which 12 new measures have been implemented since the beginning of 2018. The taxpayers will be faced with new tax burdens, which are close to EUR 1 billion, of which EUR 478 million will come from direct taxation and EUR 473 million from indirect taxation, the most unfair tax, because they are for the rich and the poor. The draft State Budget of 2018 continues its fiscal adjustment to achieve the objective of a primary surplus of EUR 7.7 billion. The dramatically predicted increase in investment by 12.6% is actually moving in the field of government imagination, because if we have so far had no growth, and in one year we should have this growth, which you say, as you can see, has no real contact with reality. Essential, unfounded optimistic, but also fiscal, is the budget proposed by the government, as it includes new taxes, resulting from the cumulative impact of the government's budgetary measures, with high expectations - as I said - on growth, where an economic growth rate of 2.5% and a primary surplus of 3.5%. As we all see, this budget can only operate in real terms, as it reduces spending and increases tax revenue. The persistent pursuit of higher objectives and the country's primary surpluses' commitments obviously entails excessive austerity, which negatively affects growth. So there is no incentive anymore, there is the problem, there is no incentive to work, there is no incentive to entrepreneurship, there is no incentive, when companies emigrate abroad with young people. The middle class is crumbling, and the poor are getting poorer. The growth prospects seem to be being canceled. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] So, from what we see in the budget, the government's argument for a redistribution policy and social justice by imposing new and additional taxes and cuts, as you can see, goes beyond logic. In many areas, such as education, health, public policy, social welfare, immigration, we see that the budget figure is negative. And once the Deputy Minister referred to these, which have been absorbed by the government in the field of the refugee crisis, I would only make two references, which he can verify, because they have been published: On the one hand, Mr Stylianides, the Commissioner for the humanitarian crisis says that EUR 500 million remains undisclosed and Greece has not absorbed them. On the other hand, it is said that 600 million from another fund, not from the AMIB, are those which have not been absorbed. That makes us 1,100,000, 000, which at the moment have not been absorbed, remain available. What are we talking about? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I would like your tolerance for half a minute. On the other hand, the budget figures reveal additional budgetary measures, mainly by imposing new taxes, which make the economy difficult. This is therefore an undevelopmental and inefficient economic and socially unjust budget. With the enhanced tax burden, citizens will continue to accept tax incursions, wage reductions and pensions. Only for the one-billion package for 2018, there will be twelve tax measures, abolishing the deduction of medical expenses and income tax, reducing half of the heating allowance, increasing the VAT rate to thirty two islands, abolishing all other benefits for beneficiaries of Social Solidarity Benefits, increasing the contributions for freelance professionals by not recognising the expenditure of contributions as an exit. In this way, the government is consciously ignoring that exit from the crisis passes through structural changes, through reforms and not through taxation. That is why, because he is unfair, ineffective and certainly cancels any prospect of growth, we will vote against this budget. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u373	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty-two students and students and three teachers attendance at the Second Chance School of Kalitheas. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs Stamatakis, Member of the SYRIZA, has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u374	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, following the agreement with the institutions and the closure of the third assessment, the political climate has changed. The country has begun to regain solvency in the international political and investment environment and a note of optimism for Greek society. The third assessment has been closed, without further budgetary measures, which means that the way out of the committee is opening. Furthermore, we should mention that, in the third assessment, we have positive measures of EUR 300 million, which will be given to programmes to combat child poverty, family allowances for family support, nurseries, school meals, disability benefits. We also have some non-economic positive measures, with the top of the reintroduction of the employee privilege, which will receive compensation in the liquidation of a company bankrupt before any other creditor. Ladies and gentlemen, the social protection system was characterised by complexity, lack of uniform design, poor targeting, multiplicity and complexity, from inequality of resources and benefits, from opacity. All of this has led to strong administrative problems for insurance and welfare operators and services, but often to the exclusion of our fellow citizens from allowances, which were entitled, due to lack of access to incomplete information and information, to a clear field for customer, rousphetological practices. Ladies and gentlemen, we broke these practices. We have ruined your streets, the building, the foundations of this state, which you have created, and that is what you do not like, and that is why we have not heard a positive proposal for the budget for these two days. And not only that, but you are moving our hand and charging us every lawlessness that you have created and devoured. We therefore, with a number of actions, are now moving towards building a modern and transparent welfare state that replaces the system of pluralism and evil. The 2018 budget, which we are debating today, is the last of the memorial days. It wasn't us that brought the memos back to the country. We in the last two years and at the sacrifices of the Greek people, in an unfavourable international environment, through a hard comitology and negative opposition, are slowly pulling the country out of the memoranda. You don't like to hear it, but you'll hear it until you inspire it. The fact that it is the last budget for the memoranda does not mean that he is as fair as we would like. There are still restrictions that are defined by the European and international economic environment and by our country's position within it. But within these limitations we have the possibility of choosing who we will support and where the burden will fall. Since 2015, which this government has undertaken, one of the first laws we have introduced has been the law to deal with the humanitarian crisis. From 2015 to 2017 we doubled our welfare expenditure from EUR 780 million to EUR 1.57 billion. The Social Income of Solidarity, originally given to thirty municipalities in the country and then, since February 2017, throughout the country, provides support to hundreds of thousands of our fellow citizens who were on the verge of extreme poverty and helped them to stand on their feet. We boosted primary health care. We don't cut ribbons in the void, ladies and gentlemen of counterpopulation. We upgraded the health centers with technological equipment and nursing staff, saving resources from an EOPY 'big food'. With the abolition of the five euro ticket to hospitals and one euro per prescription, we have restored access to health services for all insecure citizens, refugees and immigrants. The Social Income of Solidarity needs to be extended, so that it can work even better, to link it to other benefits and to OAS programmes, so that the situation of the beneficiaries is not consolidated so that those who are unemployed can get out of the labour market and become active members of society. This is one of our main objectives, and we have achieved it in part, and this is reflected in the reduction in unemployment, little but real. Ladies and gentlemen of the Officership, and not only, I understand your agony, but in vain you are trying to become prophets of bad developments. Society recognises the effort that is being made to modernise the public system and to have single criteria and more transparency so that everyone who deserves access to benefits and services as citizens and not as clients, does not have to be personally involved with any authority. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I would like some more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u375	I'll give you another minute. We can't afford more.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u376	The 2018 budget is a budget with a positive social profile, it strengthens those mechanisms that are impediment to standing up for society, but we do not stay there and take the first steps towards development policies. As I come from a constituency, including the islands of Argosaroniko, from Agistri to Antikythera, I would like to stand by the recent bill by the Ministry of Trade Shipping and the measures taken to strengthen the security system for the inhabitants of the islands in order to support their economic development. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand your concerns, but in vain you are trying to become prophets of bad developments. The country has entered the way back, exiting the memoranda, on the path of stability and security. We'll make it. We'll get out of the crisis with our people standing. That's what's of interest to us. That's why we stay and don't stay for the chair. This is your wish and you'll have a dream. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u377	Thank you very much. It is now up to the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mrs Papanatsiou, to speak for ten minutes. There are two Members, and then the Minister, Mr. Apostolos. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u378	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, with the completion of the third evaluation and the submission of the 2018 budget ends for our country the cycle of memoranda, which we inherited from New Democracy and the PASOK. For the third consecutive year we managed to catch the budget targets, and this year we give the social dividend to the most needy citizens. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy and of PASOK, where you stand and where you are, you characterise monstrous goals that we have accepted for the primary surpluses, i.e. 3.5% from 2018 to 2021. But let us see what goals you were committed to, which now seems to be a high level of 3.5% of GDP. Because it is short of your memory, I will mention that you accepted 1.5% for 2014, 3% for 2015, 4.5% for 2016, 4.5% for 2017 and 4.2% for 2018 and then, in the penis. The 2015 negotiations, which you so obscured, achieved lower targets and also made the fiscal adjustment milder than it would have been if the targets that you had accepted had been remained. However, 1.5% of GDP, i.e. EUR 2.7 billion for 2014, you accepted it, but you did not get it. You have delivered a surplus of only EUR 77 million, which is practically 0% of GDP. That means a difference of EUR 2.6 billion. Part of the measures that we had to take were those EUR 2.6 billion, which you had to have taken, and you failed to do so. You left them to us with all the other things you left us. Nevertheless, despite your repeated inability to achieve your goals and inability to have good forecasts, you insist on the theory of lost GDP. We have heard today for EUR 30-35 billion or as much as you wish to imagine every time, for a two-year period. Here I have some news for you. In 2014 you took the country's GDP to EUR 178 billion. The forecast you put in the medium-term three years earlier placed it at EUR 243 billion. Lost GDP 65 billion in just one year. I do not need to add the lost GDP in your own logic of 2012 and 2013, because you will get dizzy. So I return your argument, which once again turns boomerang to you. The unavoidable financial adjustment was imposed by the objective conditions. It wasn't our choice. Of course, these conditions had been created in previous years by the PASOK and the New Democracy itself. The New Democracy and the PASOK with their deadlocked policies caused the 2009 crisis. They then treated the citizens of this country in an even worse way. They collectively invented the citizens with the notorious motto "we have eaten them" and tried to rescue the elites of the country, at the expense of the workers and the middle class, for which they are now supposedly cut. Ladies and gentlemen, you have broken the middle class with the recession you have caused. You deprive her of income, and now you're talking about overtaxation. In taxation in 2013 you reduced by 10 percentage points the maximum rate for high-income professionals and increased the minimum rate for lower incomes. At the same time, you abolished duty-free. Don't cry now about the middle class, when - I can say - you changed her lights to favour the big incomes. With the reform of our tax and insurance system, 80-85% of professionals pay less taxes and contributions. What's the middle class for you? 5% of the civilians? One percent? You're a little confused. Ladies and gentlemen, the world does not forget that as soon as things have come to an end, the New Democracy and PASOK colleagues have had to pay those who have suffered and the well-being of those who have suffered. You have thrown, gentlemen, the burdens of one side to the people's layers and the workers and to those in good times who even saw their incomes stagnant, the prices in all kinds rise, the fat being provoked. You blamed those who listened to growth and saw unemployment and cruelty in industrial relations even before the crisis. That's not what people forget. In five years, 30% of GDP has been lost with your policies and unemployment has gone by over 25%. That was your job, and that was what we stopped. We put a brake on the impoverishment of the populace and balanced the economy. This is our work. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, tax, together with tax evasion, was key tools with which New Democracy and PASOK imposed one-sided austerity. It is no coincidence that some in the New Democracy are on the channels and say that tax evasion is not immoral. They encourage and heroize tax evasion. Because tax evasion is carried out by specific classes and professional groups, by the classes you are constantly plundering, by the classes that didn't want to pay even when prosperous, when they had great profits and incomes. We saw them at Paradise Papers, we saw them at Panama Papers and all the "listers" and the international revelations of recent years. With the account of overtaxation used by the Opposition, it attempts to memorize those who were used to tax evasion no longer able to do so. Because despite the obstacles and the trillions, despite the communication storm of counter-population, the reality is that we have had a significant success in the fight against tax evasion. And we will have even greater success. The fight's not over. The opposition focuses misleadingly on the number of checks and fines. But what matters is to see the final purpose, which is the compliance of the debtors. And what is clear is that our policy as a whole already bears fruit. Improving VAT compliance is spectacular. In January-September 2017, VAT revenues amounted to EUR 11,63 billion from EUR 9,69 billion in the corresponding period of 2015. Over these two years, thanks to the political will, which we have shown with audits and with the promotion of electronic transactions, VAT revenues have increased by almost EUR 2 billion or 20%. This is also certified by the studies of the Bank of Greece and IOBE. We have given a last chance with the voluntary disclosure programme of undeclared incomes on strict terms and conditions. It was not tax ambiguousness, as they used to do before governments. As a result, taxes amounting to EUR 711 million were incurred. Because those responsible know that we have the means to catch them. We have the cross-checking program for deposits and incomes. We have an extensive network of agreements, an exchange of tax information with countries within and outside the European Union. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address a number of other issues, which I think have been addressed, because some speeches have been heard. As regards smuggling, we rushed to issue all the necessary implementing ministerial decisions, as the Samara - Venizelos government passed laws on the eyes of the world and then left them inactive. We are moving on to targeted controls based on risk analysis and we are starting to have the first results. With regard to late payments to the public, the opposition insists on reading the data backwards. The situation is gradually improving. The great increase in the dues took place between now and 2014, i.e. with the policies of today's Response, which is now on the table. Currently, the rate of increase in outstanding debts has been limited while, on the other hand, there is a significant increase in outstanding receivables in 2015 and 2016 compared to 2014. While the debts in 2014 had increased by EUR 11.7 billion, in 2016 they increased by EUR 7.4 billion, i.e. by 35% less. At the same rate it will probably close - and in 2017. Despite the hard war we faced and confronted, the 2018 budget ends the cycle of monuments that we inherited from New Democracy and the PASOK. We manage public money efficiently and fairly to meet the needs of society today and with respect for rights and future generations. In conclusion, I would like to stress that your scenarios are being broken down. So since the left parental work ceased to sell tickets, you discovered overtaxation and subtraction of the economy. The truth is, public finances are entering order and the state is housed. Transparency, which is a unknown word for you, is our priority. We will therefore inform you that we are taking the burden of our commitments primarily to the people and we will cope with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u379	Thank you, Mrs Papanatsiou, and especially for your compliance with the time, which you have not significantly exceeded.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u380	Mr President, I would like the floor for a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u381	I'd like the floor, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u382	Do you have a personal issue?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u383	No, as a parliamentary representative, I ask him.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u384	Mr Loverdos has asked for the floor earlier. I'll give you the floor right after. Please, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u385	When they hear you, Mrs Papanatsiou, the citizens do not think about the theories you have said about the middle class. They also heard Mr Juliarakis and Mr Tsakalotos say what they did in relation to the middle class. And where there are elections to free professionals, recently to the lawyers and Mr. Vervessou's election, he doesn't even detect the radar!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u386	Is that the question?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u387	Please, your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u388	My question is this: When they hear you talk - you in particular - most people react, I have had such reactions, and I take them to you, for the hundred and twenty doses. The hundred and twenty instalments with the delays of 100 billion are a matter for you, after all. Do you intend to make any such arrangements? The forecasts for the beginning of next year make the deadlines at 120 billion. Do you have anything in mind to say to the House?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u389	Mr. Stavura, do you want to ask me a question?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u390	No, I, as a parliamentary representative, want time for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u391	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u392	Madam Minister, you've been a little confused by the numbers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u393	Not at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u394	You said something about the 2013-2014 development. I would like to tell you that, from the beginning of the country's accession to the Memorandums to date, the only two years that we have surpassed the development objectives were 2013-2014. I will submit the 2012 and 2013 budgets, for 2013 and 2014, which show that we predicted in 2014 a recession of 4.5% and the recession was 3.2% and in 2014 we predicted a growth of 0.6% and growth was 0.8%. Therefore, you received the country in development, returned it to the recession, kept it in the recession in 2016 and failed the targets of 2017. You are therefore the only negative development surprise in the past three years throughout Europe, according to the International Monetary Fund. Secondly, you said about the primary surplus of 2014 and said we left it. Let me remind you that you ruled for a month.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u395	In 2014?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u396	In 2015 you ruled a month that is financially going in 2014. Unless you're telling us that in the budget you're writing in and saying about the 2018 dose you're going to 2017 you're lying. So you should know that the first two months of each year go budgetaryly in the previous year. And the wide divergence in 2014 took place in January and February 2015 in revenues. And it's all the evidence here of the general government, your government, Minister. Until November, he has the evidence of how they were going. I'll testify. You said, Minister, the middle-class is not taxed. I think this is the shortest joke anyone has heard, not to say a joke. I will present here the last two reports from OECD and Eurostat showing the overtaxation you have submitted to Greece over the last two years. And if anyone wants to talk about social injustice, I'll testify to the Minutes on page 60 of your state budget, which shows that the relationship...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u397	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u398	I can finish then, if you want, take the floor, but - if I may - with information and texts in the Minutes. Mrs. Fotio, if you have any evidence, please testify now. Indirect and direct taxes: You have been saying from the Chairs of Anti-Population that indirect taxes are socially unfair and have reached the worst point since 2011. I'll submit page 60 of your budget. I hope you've read it. Finally, you said something about tax evasion. Didn't you say 'three billion dollars of tax evasion in six months' and you've caught a hundred million in two and a half years? With the information you have submitted to me, you have admitted that the smuggling in fuel is 1/10 of 2014, with the information you gave me for the summer receipts. Do you have any new evidence to tell us? Two million to 28 was. If you have any evidence, please testify. Finally, tax evasion you said in VAT. There is a famous indicator, if you do not know him: 'VAT'. It says how much you collect from VAT, relative to how much you should collect. Greece reached the lowest point - therefore, the lowest tax evasion in VAT - in 2014. Why? Because it was the first and only year that the taxes were reduced then and the economy went back to growth. Since 2015, due to your taxation, your overtaxation has increased the ‘VAT acquis’. So tax evasion has increased. So you continue to be uragua in the fight against tax evasion and a champion in overtaxation. Be well!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u399	Mr President, I would like to speak, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u400	You want to answer now?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u401	Sure. I have to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u402	Mrs. Papanaceu, how much time do you need?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u403	One or two minutes, please. I don't want more. First of all, as far as VAT is concerned, it is not our evidence. I told you in my place. There are elements of the Bank of Greece as well as of the IOBE. We had 20% more VAT collection. Why don't you admit it?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u404	From what? Taxes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u405	No, of course not. It's not from the taxes. It's from the citizens' compliance with the plastic money we've brought. These are the findings of the Bank of Greece. Why don't you want to admit it? Why didn't you do that earlier?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u406	Put it in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u407	Check it out.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u408	We're on. Of course, we'll testify.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u409	So testify to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u410	Check it out now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u411	I don't have anything with me. Do I have to have evidence with me now? I didn't know I had to have evidence. [[Noise in the Chamber]] My speech and my speech state exactly that. Are you questioning the figures of the Bank of Greece and IOBE? Alas! We're on. Let me see if you will question the figures of the medium term, which you yourself have brought to the House and you have voted on. Estimates of the mid-term training period 2012-2015. It was adopted in June 2011.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u412	In 2011?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u413	Yeah. Can you hear me a bit? 2012 was 228.400. In 2014 it was 242,900. In 2015 it was 251,900. We're on. There is a new estimate in the tenth month of 2012 for 2013-2016. It's coming down to GDP. We arrive in 2014 with 182.682. A new estimate with the medium-term, voted in the fourth month of 2014 was 182.231. With ELSTAT’s accounting data, according to ELSTAT’s latest publication for 2014 was 178.666. From there are my elements, Mr Stakoura, and you can find them very easily and you know it very well. If you want to talk the same way that you spoke before and told us about the money lost, in the same way we answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u414	Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u415	I asked you something, Minister, and you didn't answer me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u416	You forgot to answer for the hundred and twenty doses.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u417	Please be quiet. Mrs. Fotou, wait a minute. Do you want to answer, Mrs. Papanatsiu? Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u418	One hundred and twenty instalments are available for professionals and for those who have bankruptcy and for those who do not have bankruptcy, according to the extrajudicial compromise. From there on, what else do you want, Mr. Loverdo, let me tell you? Most of the dues in due time are from entrepreneurs. They will be included in the extrajudicial compromise and too many issues will be resolved. That is why we have activated the extrajudicial compromise.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u419	Mrs. Fotou, do you want an intervention?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u420	For a second, I just want the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u421	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u422	Mr. Stavoura, all ELSTAT's figures are 2016 with incomes of 2015. You know that well and these are all the posted details of ELSTAT you invoke. They are therefore not relevant for the last two years, 2016 and 2017. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u423	What are you answering now?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u424	You said earlier that ELSTAT's evidence shows what's going on...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u425	Please, Mrs. Fotou!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u426	I didn't say anything about ELSTAT!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u427	What are you talking about? I heard very well about ELSTAT.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u428	There's a minister in charge to answer that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u429	For the middle class, Mr Stakoura, I have listened well. I'm not deaf yet! To end the smuggling of ELSTAT's data by the New Democracy and the Democratic Partnership! They use all the investigations and data from ELSTAT 2016, which are with the revenues of 2015, to say that this is all happening in the last two years, in 2016 and 2017.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u430	Ask your Minister!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u431	Mr. Stavura, I'll give you the floor. But not to have an interactive debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u432	My response is exhausted in a proposal: the due debts of individuals to taxation and insurance funds amount to EUR 130 billion, 50% increased compared to 2014. This is the result of the exhaustion of the tax capacity of households and businesses!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u433	Thank you. Mr Kedicoglou, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u434	Please, be quiet, Mr. Papadopoulos! Hold on a second. Mr. Kedicoglou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u435	Thank you, Mr President. I do not usually comment on previous speakers, but unfortunately, the Minister's speech was full of gross inaccuracies, and I say this kindly, Minister, because I do not want to use the expression 'hot lies'. For example, the surplus 4.2% was only for 2018. From that point on, we're done. And goals are always a function of development. And how much you cost us, don't listen to us, but to the Community officials. Mr. Regling has cost you 100 billion euros to the Greeks. But let us come to the budget, which, as you know, is the roadmap of a government on where it wants to direct economic and social development. And the 2018 budget is the full confirmation that your governance is characterised by an unprecedented and unfortunately disastrous combination of inability, ignorance, outdated perception and fatalism, to stay in the most prestigious characterizations. How else can I explain the fact that you insist on the same mistakes, despite the painful consequences on Greek society and the enormous damage to the national economy? Why do you insist that you increase taxes when the Greeks’ dues are increased every year? As a matter of fact, every month is growing boldly. Only last October increased by 1.2 billion, Minister, and instead of understanding the mistake, what are you doing? A string confiscation! They've been over a million this year. What is more, this year you are reintroducing new tax increases! And say we didn't tell you? Last year, in the debate of the previous budget, from this Step I was warning you that 'without a severe tax storm, you cannot believe that you will have a growth of 2.7% and an increase in investment of 9.1%. Unfortunately, I verified: growth is barely half - 1.4% - and investment is just 5.1%. And all this at a time when the rest of Europe is looting. And don't listen to a minister again saying that the only objective was the surplus, which you secured thanks to the wild tax and the payment stop! More than 3 billion was the "hole" in the revenues of the previous budget and yet in the new budget nearly 2 billion were involved from new tax increases and pension cuts and benefits. And all this, after two years, to which you have imposed twenty-seven new taxes, in addition to the multiple increases in taxes and contributions. Since the time of "I don't pay" you have come a long way, ladies and gentlemen of the government. And of course, you gave us another sad first after the curse on our competitiveness tables and the prospect of our economy. Greece is the first to tax increases among thirty-five OECD members. And yet, we heard SYRIZA's rapporteur telling us that the Greek economy's problem is not overtaxation, but undertaxation! I admit we've been speechless in the first place. Honestly, we were concerned about the contact of the government rapporteur with reality, but then we heard him smack about increasing wage spending and we began to understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u436	Well, now, Mr President, we have to answer that question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u437	Your disastrous policy has not happened, it has succeeded. Your goal from the outset was to bring the economy and society to a level, the violent equation downwards and even below, creating your party army in the State. You do not care that the level of life of the Greeks is constantly falling, which poverty is spreading, which disappointment is dominating. It is not your concern that you led the country into two unnecessarily memorable memorials and permanent austerity. You do not want to promote the necessary reforms and privatizations for the recovery of the economy. Even those with whom you agree and which you vote, you never apply them, because you don't believe them, because you're stuck with the past. You are not interested in bleeding the market from the state's posture to private individuals and from the substantial non-existence of the Public Investment Programme. And let's not talk about the lowlifes. - absorptions of funds from the NRP, clearly because of your inability. You don't give a damn about the tens of Greek businesses and the hundreds of thousands of free professionals who stopped the job. ‘Different’ means workers of EUR 360 and pensioners of EUR 180. You are ignoring the consequences of reducing the social budget by more than EUR 1.5 billion in the weaker strata. "Fly the ball on the platform" for the auctions, you calling "no house in the hands of a banker!" You do not care about the enormous damage you do to the entire Greek society and especially those who believed your election lies. No surprise! You do not care for the loss of all moral stipulations here, with the unrelenting and indifferent support you have given to your government partner in the unpleasant case of arms trafficking. The supposed moral advantage of the Left became the new sooner joke. You are doing all this easily and relentlessly, because all you care about is staying in power, and that requires the levelling-up of society. The disappearance of the middle class is your declared goal. After all, it was one of the few cases that we heard sincere words from ministerial lips. But you do not stop there, you do the poorer ones too, believing that they will need more your charity. You take the carbs and believe that you will have them satisfied with "with crumbs". [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Give me one more minute, Mr President. At the same time, you are loading the public with inappropriate recruitment of thousands of “days” at the expense of the rest of the Greeks. Forty-eight new bodies you have built up, up to the Farm Movement! Are these the priorities of the Greek society, the Greek economy?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u438	What's wrong with the museum now?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u439	You are creating a party army, believing that this is how you ensure your political survival in a flattened, poor Greek society. That's your plan. Your policy has not been achieved, but your objectives will not be achieved. The Greeks have taken you! I am sure this is your last budget. The next budget will have the stamp of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, it will be a budget of economic realism and social sensitivity, to restore credibility and prospects in the country. And you know, our main opponent is no longer you. You've eaten your breads, no one believes you anymore. Our great adversary is despair, in which you have plunged our country. We have a duty to regenerate hope, to believe that the Greeks can believe that we can do better, because we surely deserve much better than today's curse. And we will be able to achieve it, with truth and honesty, with the integrated programme of the New Democracy, with Mr Mitsotakis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u440	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u441	What's the matter with the museum?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u442	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u443	Please, what's this about?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u444	In Mr Kedicoglou's report on my statement of undertaxation.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u445	Are you asking for the floor on staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u446	Of course, I ask for the floor on personal grounds. Let me make something clear to Mr. Kedicoglou and those who do not know about my statement. Does Mr Kedicoglou ignore the fact that the country has produced deficits and therefore debts, until it entered the memoranda, why have the deficits stopped from there? So, obviously, my report was for that time period. Does he ignore Mr Kedicoglou or does he not want to explain to us or honestly tell the Greek people that there were indeed social groups very high incomes, which were never taxed, to the extent that they should have been taxed, thereby creating an incredible social inequality and paying the usual burden of this and, of course, a piece of money directed to banks abroad, offshore? We will see, then, which part of the money was legal and what was illegal. In order to be absolutely honest and to respond to Mr Kedicoglou's accusation of incompetence, I personally declare incapable of closing the ERT tomorrow morning!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u447	Thank you. Please, Mr. Igoumenides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u448	I'm sorry, Mr. President, just a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u449	Mr. Kedicoglou, there can be no interactive conversation.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u450	Wait a minute, Mr President, on a personal note. He mentioned my name. I shall simply refer to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u451	There will be no interactive debate. You'll make a statement.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u452	For the problem of taxation, I would ask you to see the OECD figures. Champions, you did us the tax! You've taxed hard. You scratched all the Greeks!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u453	It was overtaxation, creating deficits and debts. You can't understand what time I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u454	Read your words.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u455	That's enough!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u456	Mr Igoumenides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u457	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, we are told by the Members of the New Democracy: 'Three years you have been ruling'. And that's where I agree with them. Not in what they say, in the undeniable, that is, reality, but in what they do not say, that their first political assessment, the first New Democracy political account of 'left parenthesis' is for the basket of unusables. And I agree with them in the second, which also does not say, by participating in today's debate, that today, when we are discussing the budget, their second estimate that we would be discussing the cut is also a political assessment of the basket of useless people. Let us keep this for the rest of their political assessments and go further. The truth is, ladies and gentlemen, that much has happened in three years, in education, in health, in social policy and in our efforts to relieve the weak and those in need of unemployment. I think the President of Parliament has completed all this work that we have done. The list of three years and the time available is long. I think the first conclusion to which we must conclude is that today our people are choosing and must walk on the left, on the basis of the experience of three years, the difficult path of effort, to get out of the crisis with society upright. Our people reject the conservative policy of exiting the crisis with the destruction of their country's productive forces, all to get out of the crisis. I come to the second conclusion, Mr President: the exit from the crisis is not self-evident. The crisis has no expiry date. In this three-year period we met the left-wing project. Our people saw and lived the conflicts of the left and inside and outside the country. Our people have seen and lived - they have experience of this - the determination of the Left. In this sense, we are choosing the way out of this crisis, and we reject, with the experience we have - because it is not just a plan on paper - this inaccurate acceptance of any proposal from the Troikas, which we have known to the Samara - Venizelos governments. We reject this model, which in the disaster of society saw an investment magnet. Thirdly, because our lives are not just financial elements and figures, we want this attempt by society to tackle the crisis to be a course and an effort to foster respect for the people, confidence in the forces of the movement, and social solidarity will be further developed. We reject the model of atomicism, the model of personal decoy, the model of atomic success, based on the ruins of broken social cohesion. In other words, in this effort, which society is doing to gather its pieces, we want and choose to walk on the left the road that society will cultivate democratic consciousness in the world and reject the model of society that will hatch the snake's egg. Below: We live in a blessed place. As a joke, we live in the place that God had chosen for himself. In this place of meeting ancient cultures and cultures, at this crossroads of energy and trade, in this region, where transport and tourism play a special role in the global economy, we choose to walk with the Left for our country, as a force of peace, as a force of stability, as a force of security and respect for international law. We reject war drums, reject any opposite voice. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that the reflection of liquidity, which exists in society in general as a result of the crisis, is also the liquidity that exists in the political field. Let's not go too far. Let's see this Chamber. Different was its composition in January 2015, otherwise we moved in September 2015 at this time, otherwise it is the composition of the parliamentary groups today and otherwise it will be September 2019, in the next elections. I am especially aware of this House that a point of the mobility of some is the culprit of their personal political survival. But beyond that, the truth is that this political liquidity reflects, to a certain extent, the mobility that exists in society. In this respect - and I am closing with this, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance - I would like to ask some questions to those who are talking about the Left, to those who define themselves in the field of the Central Left or want them to be designated in this area. My questions are as follows: Firstly, we are forced by our creditors to implement in some cases physical, anti-development and conservative measures. How will we mitigate the impact and impact of these measures on society? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, your tolerance. I'll be done. Secondly, can we also stir up the course of destruction of productive forces? Thirdly, how do we keep open the way for the implementation of a left-wing programme in Greek society? What is more: will we apply the simple analogue as a permanent and stable electoral system? If you want, I hear people talking and planning about the Central Left. SYRIZA, in these plans, where is he? Where do you put him? Do you think of a strong centre-left polo capable of playing a decisive role in developments in Greece, without SYRIZA, or, if I judge by the positions of some, much more against him? If you want, it is your right not to answer these questions. Your right to ignore this concern of society. Your right to continue with a phrase, addressed to your remaining party audience. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. I'm hanging up. However, in September 2019, if you go on like this, you'll be looking for what magic Tsipras did again and pick up the world again. This is not a matter of people, gentlemen - and I am ending with it - it is not about any magic vagina or any rabbit from the hat. It is the Left, which has in its DNA respect for the people, confidence in the forces of the movement, the policy of broader social alliances and political unity and cooperation. It is the Left, which - take care of it - either with others or by taking from others, but always with unified politics, synchronizes its pace with the fighting social forces. That is why, in my opinion - and I am closing with this, Mr President - today from whatever point of view that we want to unfold the bucket of Greek reality, from international developments to any question of the everyday life of our fellow citizens, for our people, there is a choice, especially for the poor and the weak, and it sounds like a one-way road with Left and SYRIZA for a new Greece. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u458	Thank you. The Minister for Rural Development and Food, Mr Apostleou, has the floor for ten minutes, as the Rules of Procedure say, now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u459	First of all, Mr President, I should like to put forward the Minutes from the Committee on Production and Trade's meeting on the draft strategy for the rural area to be used by the Members of the New Democracy. I will simply tell them that, starting with the rapporteur, he has said that this is a worthwhile text, which approaches reality in Greek agriculture with real data. It concludes, ladies and gentlemen, by saying that we consider the things described in the draft to be effective and feasible, in spite of all the difficulties that we are all experiencing, and as citizens and in general farmers. So we believe that there is a need for this regular cooperation within the committee. These are, in order to answer the minutes of the committee to Mr Varvitsiotis. [[At this point, the Minister, Evangelos Apostolos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the resources of the rural area come from four main sources: the value of production, the aids to the common agricultural policy, the subsidies to the Rural Development Programme and, of course, in specific cases and following the approval of the European Commission, State aids, the PESA type and de minimis. So let's see what we did and what we're planning for all this. First of all, we have protected agricultural income through the introduction of the individual tax-free limit. You were talking, ladies and gentlemen, about tax latitude. What do the evidence show? In the first year of the application of the tax rules, that is, for 2016, the main professional farmers, five hundred seventy-seven thousand farmers, on the basis of what they have said, paid a tax of EUR 70 million. While, if your own law were to apply, the New Democracy and PASOK law, Law No 4172/2013, which provided for taxation from the first euro with 13 %, would pay 173 million, that is more than double. If the demand of the institutions for taxation with 26% was not accepted, it would be up to 346 million, i.e. five times that. So we have protected farmers from these worst of these things. Don't lie any more. I have heard speakers raise the subject of HUNGARY. There's no such thing as that. Why do you bring it up? Indeed, we have a problem with regard to the taxation of cooperating farmers, and it is an issue that we have promised that, with the first possibility, we will deal with it. As far as insurance is concerned, once again, it must be understood, especially by farmers, that a national pension has been introduced for their own account, when we all know that this benefit, the pension they receive, has been reduced to zero, and when they know, now, that the premium, which they pay will also be in return for the national pension. Also, what did we do about the backup? We have ensured their smooth payment by householding all the old loose ends even since 2018. They have been paid for 2017 to date about 1.6 billion and will still be paid 1.2 billion. If we do not add the social dividend, which corresponds to the rural world, then in total for 2017 we will exceed 3 billion. That's a reality. You should also not ignore, ladies and gentlemen, that in the three years of your country's governance, we did not have one euro fine and one euro indictment when you know that we found 3 billion in front of us from your own mismanagements. I'm coming to the Agricultural Development Programme 2014-2020. With the completion of two years since its adoption, we positively appreciate its implementation. Based on the excellent cooperation we have, in particular with regional government, which we have allocated 37.4% of resources, we are planning next year as well. We managed in 2017 to activate the largest and most important part of it. Overall, new notices and ongoing projects have committed 62% of resources and exceed EUR 3.5 billion, with payments at the end of the year reaching 1.4 billion. In other words, in just two years the absorption has reached 25% and, together with the advance payment that has been invaded in the country, it reaches 29% Our targets for 2018 are equally ambitious. I will only focus on the activation of measures which will help to develop basic support structures for producers. I am thinking of the structures for technical and scientific advisory support from geotechnics and other scientists in the area, the cooperation structures for knowledge transfer and the promotion of innovation through the creation of partnerships and the enhancement of the quality of our agri-food products. The funds allocated to these interventions exceed EUR 200 million. In the Ministry, we have launched a titanic effort to remove the squatters and bad texts in fishing. Our most important tool on this route is the Operational Fisheries and Sea Programme of EUR 389 million, which, with the national contribution, will exceed EUR 523 million. Our objectives also include the activation of financial instruments, which will ensure the necessary support for own participation, in order to facilitate the realisation of investments in the Rural Development Programme. That is why we are in cooperation with the European Investment Bank, which draws up the relevant study on the diagnosis of financial needs and the selection of appropriate financial instruments, so that within 2018 we can set up the corresponding investment support fund under the Rural Development Programme. In the same direction, radical changes and the necessary modernisations we have attempted, such as the rules on grazing land, with which we have dealt with two main issues for livestock farming: firstly, the eligibility for aid of EUR 550 million, by changing the definition of pasture, which we have achieved at European Union level, with an additional 8 million acres of eligible areas. Secondly, sustainable management, through the management plans currently drawn up, of 60 million hectares of woodland that are now grazing. The introduction of the Farmer's card, which has found a great deal of response to the banking system. Everything shows that we have secured a low-priced funding to farmers for basic aid. We are planning to extend it to 2018 and to 'creaming'. We proceeded to serve our strategic choices in animal production, by extending the associated aid from 63 million to 124 million. In other words, we have more than doubled the associated aid. We have introduced a mistress in the rural economy, and, in cooperation with the relevant ministries, we will extend it to poster workers entering our country for the purpose of seasonal work. Our plan for the development of aromatic and pharmaceutical plants already finds a great deal of response. We started with its implementation from Kosani, giving young farmers the countryside a thousand acres. In February 2018, and the bank of domestic genetic material in Thermi, Thessaloniki will begin its operation. We have put clear rules and transparency on the milk and meat market, institutionalising the compulsory labelling of the milk and milk products sector. This is a very important intervention in support of the livestock sector. As also, we have strictly penalised the compulsory payment of up to sixty days in the majority of agricultural products, so that the Greek farmer can stop being the main creditor of the wholesaler and of the stores. No more that we sell end products seven days and are paid with cheques seven and ten months. We move to the beginning of 2018 to the start of the operation of DIAGE, which will make use of public rural property, designed with priority to young, unemployed and collective actors. We are preparing, at the same time, a regulation on the salvation and performance of agricultural activities, through DDIAGE, the agricultural property of cooperatives that have inactively been or are being wound up. We must keep this particular agricultural property at all costs. With the new law on cooperatives there was a great deal of response. A number of sound reasoning - such as cooperatives, organisations and producer groups, interbranch organisations, COMESC - can now be used in any production, processing or trade. I will say a few words, ladies and gentlemen, to close the common agricultural policy, because it has already started a public consultation at European level and of course the debate on modernisation and simplification has already begun in our country. Today we can say with a certain degree of certainty, despite possible reactions, that there are conditions for intervention in the course of convergence, in the direction of justice. As regards post 2020, all developments at European level are open and our participation in this debate is essential. The greatest challenge we will face is not only to ensure adequate resources, but also the balance between the resources and the commitments that both the common agricultural policy and our farmers will make. That is why we need to approach the future in terms of not only economic but also social terms, in the context of a holistic approach concerning the future of the European Union itself. I close by reminding you of the consensus we had in the Committee on Production and Trade, which, in particular, the common agricultural policy, the review after 2020, will indeed be important if we adopt it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u460	Thank you, too. We continue with the MP of SYRIZA, Mr. Skourico. Please, Mr. Darkness, you have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u461	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, in top parliamentary procedures, such as this budget debate, extreme positions are unfortunately not avoided, usually by those whose political account is disputed. What does the government say today? He says this is the government's third budget. It is a budget within a restrictive framework that you have inherited us, but it is the budget linked to the end of a painful period for the country and the people. Obviously, that is something opposition cannot accept. With desperation, ladies and gentlemen, you find that the period that began with that idyllic television plan in Kastelorizo, when PASOK put us in a paranoia tunnel, is over. A tunnel that was subsequently extended by the New Democracy and extended even further with the New Democracy - PASOK - DIMAR, until after 2015, with painful compromises, the economic progress with the SYRIZA Government - ANEL has now made the exit from this nightmare visible. The sources of one for this claim are all those who played in the setting and management of this nightmare tunnel. They are now forced to recognise that we are on the way out. Who? But first of all, Gerun Dieselblum, the Philly Shoeble, is also forced to shine, he, Donald Tusk - you will remember his oldest statements - and so many others. They're your political friends, they're not ours, they're not left-wing people. Of course, with these developments, it spoils your account. Clearly from your speech, you are in such despair that many of you, even though serious people are commonly professed, resort to insurmountable, common lies. You don't deserve enough of you. But it is worth in your political choices, like those that introduced and justified the memorials only to save the banks, as your loved one, your Ground. So you poored the country 25%, you left behind a million and a half unemployed, you know it and the Greek people know it, they know it. As you know your sensitivities and your reward to those who took their wealth out of the country to offshore companies and tax havens. Alas, your people are friends and relatives. You called the government sometime a waste. This is where you really finished it. The wasted SYRIZA - ANEL government is being called for because it spends meals for a hundred and twenty thousand students, for it takes care of the one million disabled, living in that country, because it spends on pre-primary benefits, for it facilitates households’ repayments. Yes, it wastes 760 million for beneficiaries of the Social Solidarity Income - they are citizens who have reached this situation - and they are still wasted on child protection and youth centres. Let me inform you how you have managed child poverty to be greater than that of the elderly in our country. I understand, of course, that all of this tells you nothing. For you it's useless waste. That is your political view. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the House is occupied by Mr. SYRIDON LYKOUDES.]] In the field of culture, you did not have to do much at the time of the crisis. You had taken your measures several years earlier, loyal to your political view of the slightest social welfare. The preparation for this disaster began very early, since 2000 with PASOK, where the first discreet steps were taken. After 2004, when the New Democracy took over the government of the country, the then Minister of Culture attacked the entire range of theatres, orchestras, dance bands, cultural events and anyone in the arts field had the least support of the state. With popular extremism against the state-run culture he put in the same basket, he smacked the panic with the worthless. Of course, their unworthy people continued to take money. Grants, which have never been analogous to an average European state, have been reduced until they have in practice been abolished in the theater, in the book, everywhere. The crisis found civilization broken up. You just cut him off. You dismantled, you abolished collective agreements. You condemned my fellow actors at an hourly rate of EUR 3.5 per hour with EUR 7 a performance and without the rehearsals being paid. How many crocodile tears have you shed in this Chamber on today's working conditions and part-time, the conditions you have charged us with? After August 2018, collective labour contracts are our first concern. Until then we have done what we had to do, that is, we signed collective working contracts with the state theatres, with the State Theatre of Northern Greece and the National Theatre and with actors and technicians. After years, then, the elementary support for culture, which a modern state is obliged to provide, returns with transparency - I repeat, transparency - and legality. If it matters to you the numbers, let me tell you that we have stopped the free drop in grants and the 47 million of 2014 become 75 million in 2018 and the best they come, they are in front of us. The government's here, they're standing up. In the weekend in Megara and Elefsina, the Western Attica Development Conference with the entire government, with the Prime Minister present, will discuss and deal with the great problem of Western Attica, which you loaded it in the last decades with tens of the evils. The rapporteur for the Officership on the first day of the debate closed his speech with certainty - other colleagues have said so, I heard it - that this is the government's last budget. You said the same thing last year and last year, every year, like tradition, like many years. I think that the Greek people, ladies and gentlemen, for years will send you to the headquarters of Anti-Population, "walking" you for all the suffering you have given him. So I urge you to vote on this budget, which marks a future better, a future optimistic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u462	Thank you, my colleague. Mr Dimitrios Sevastakis from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u463	Thank you very much. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] In a very violent way the average productive citizen has changed from a saver to a debtor. This great displacement, this distortion occurred in a productive ruin, and the loan was chosen as a substitute, the credit expansion. A market economy was formed, which had no production reference, no production roots. What has happened many decades ago, this distortion, this degradation of the country's productive fabric, gives defects that are binding both on today's reality and also underscoring in a way tomorrow, our reference to the future. Under these conditions, and under these difficult conditions, the debate is unfolding, which, unfortunately, instead of having the creative features of solutions and solutions, resorts to the war opposition, extremely close and highly predictable. On the pretext of an issue that has a lot of popularity, the status of reduced VAT on the islands of the eastern Aegean, I would like to express some thoughts on how taxation can find its good and smooth relationship with production, namely how an extremely multilateral economy such as the Greek economy, with different productive identities, with different geographical features, with different traditions and cultural impulses, can be attributed to a fair, equitable and justified tax platform in the eyes of the people. This question has not been resolved. The ratio of production and taxation has not been restored. It's a bet much more complex than the lymphs or the rhetoric I hear from the area of Antipolitics. This question, how does it specialize? So how can I get from the multiple specific features of production from the islands, from the mountains, from the mainland, from the large urban centres and do those specialties that will suit the economic and productive profile of each region to give tax justice, but not tax simulation, not tax levelling? This is a question far beyond the budget debate, but the budget debate can also take place on a pretext. Another element of specialisation, which I would like to highlight, is that we are certainly gaining a political quality in the summer of 2018. It will not be summer 2018, at least according to visible and distinct forecasts, as in summer 2014, summer 2015 or summer 2010. It won't be. It'll be something else. We will enter a time of political self-action. You'll be able to decide, formulate strategies with greater freedoms. And this, apart from convenience and good, is also a huge responsibility. And we have to co-decide on this responsibility, not to play the defects that we find before us again, not a wasteful reproduction of a policy of benefits or of an easy healing of wounds, which may at first instance facilitate a political audience, but at the end they reproduce our productive delay. We need to see how this freedom will become a tool for rationalising both public administration and public finances and also, finally, for the future. Because so far we have been managing damage, defects management, legacy management. I think it makes sense that these thoughts have been covered by excellent colleagues. Many areas of the problem of the draft budget have been covered. Many of the good colleagues have covered different areas. I think we can with greater certainty and greater security and perhaps with more secure anticipation tools to organise our future. However, it may be a difficult budget, but it may be the first draft budget that allows reference to the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u464	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. My colleague Mr. Vassilis Tsirkas from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u465	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now facing a new reality, as we can now talk about positive growth, about increasing foreign direct investment, about launching the number of tourists, about a real reduction in unemployment. For the first time, we have completed an assessment of the third, without a new package, without any budgetary burden at all. And this is due to the recovery of the country's prestige and credibility, which this government has achieved after serious and systematic work. Those who do not have bumpers see the positive course of the Greek economy. International media mention optimism that returns to Greece and a clear exit from the memorials in the summer of 2018. Everyone sees the positive course, except for the Securitised Opposition and all the systemic media that live in their own reality, because they are afraid of the reality that is constantly improving. They poison public life with irresistible complaints and a toxic opposition tactic, while the government continues to prepare the ground for the definitive exit from the crisis and recover access to the markets in August 2018. For the second consecutive year, the government has gone on to distribute social dividends, twice last year, to millions of citizens who have been hardest hit by the crisis. The social dividend is part of the over-recruitment of revenue, as a result of hard negotiation for lower primary surpluses, but also because some who have had a peculiar immunity for years now go to the fund, as was the case with the revenues of about EUR 700 million, which the voluntary disclosure arrangement for undeclared deposits has brought, - collecting results that the previous governments have never brought, in contrast to undeclared deposits. From there came the social dividend, but also the increase in income in insurance funds from employee contributions due to the reduction of unemployment, the increase in employment and the fight against undeclared labour. By negotiating for the third assessment, the government managed to provide an important package to support families, increasing the budget by EUR 260 million for family allowances, expanding income scales for the weakest, and equally important is the increase in expenditure on the expansion of nurseries. A positive financial event is also the increase in state funding to self-government by about 5.34% compared to the 2017 State Budget. It is a budgetary proof of another democratic perception of the role of self-government. The difference in perception is, therefore, visible and clear in all sensitive areas, as the budget forecasts in other areas, such as health, education and justice, since the expenditure, despite the difficult budgetary circumstances, allows for the proper functioning of their structures for the service of all citizens. You're accusing us that things are going worse. Things are going better. The proof is that the 2018 budget is the last one submitted under the macroeconomic adjustment programme and signals the country's entry into a new period of economic stability and regularity. It is the budget that can stabilise the development process, as both the funds made available from the Public Investment Programme and from the ESRB and cooperation with the European Investment Bank change the climate in the economy and investment. But it is also the budget which reflects our commitment to improving the daily lives of the citizen. In the first half of 2017, three hundred thousand new jobs were created. This is a tangible example. Three hundred thousand people have experienced the change of passage from unemployment to work. Is that indifferent? Call it if it is. With the end of the programme in August 2018, the country's economic and political sovereignty will be largely restored and the dividing lines between the country's political forces will be clearer. By that time, your pursuit will have been completely revealed, which is no more than the pillaging of family allowances, the dissolution of the social state, the exhaustion of the poor and the middle class. As much as you're trying to present another picture of misery, defeat, things are different. However, as long as there are our fellow citizens, who make it difficult, we certainly cannot celebrate. But we are creating a different environment that allows the Greek people to see with another eye the prospect of better life. And this government has shown in fact that it has the will for deep political areas and achieves objectives that are to the benefit of society. And all this is reflected in the budget. For us, there remains the main objective of changing the country's productive and social model, supporting labour rights, employment, the enlargement of the social state, fair taxation. The citizens understand that we are giving an increasingly difficult and great struggle to alleviate the consequences, to create recovery conditions and to support people who have been on the margins all the previous years, to ensure the necessary financial space to extend aid to social protection and to implement significant reductions in household and business tax rates. The results are already felt in large groups of the population, which, when it comes to the time being to judge who they want to govern this country, will decide on the basis of their own interests. We have two years in front of us to ensure a dynamic recovery of the Greek economy that will work for many. New Democracy and PASOK have put the country in the memoirs. We're the ones who'll get the country out of the memoirs. And this is the nightmare of counterpopulation, that the people have called the left to the hardest, and the left has succeeded. For all these reasons, the 2018 budget is not another Memorandum of Understanding. It is the last difficult phase of the great social effort, which our people have chosen to lead to getting rid of the Memorandums and the Committee. Just a little bit more and we'll make it. A little more to get across to the opposite antimony, memorial bank.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u466	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, twenty students and students and four teachers from the Second School of Occupation (Second Chamber). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Charilaos Tsakalis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u467	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the annual drafting of the state budget is linked to the specific economic, social and political circumstances prevailing at the time of its retirement and is therefore part of a given environment. The 2018 budget is part of a country's comitology environment, budgetary constraints and adjustments and exclusion of the country's borrowing from markets as early as 2010. In these circumstances, the 2018 budget seeks the best possible result, and in particular seeks to lead the country to the exit from the Memorandum with society and the economy standing. The softest financial adjustment achieved in 2015, 2016 and 2017 with the smaller surpluses enabled the Government to increase social benefits funds, especially for the economically weaker. Of the 750m euros received in 2015, we go to 1,830,000 euros for 2018. For example: Funds were secured and committed for the social income of solidarity at the same level as in 2017. The aim of the family is to combat child poverty, which for the government is the second biggest social problem following unemployment. In particular, family allowances are increased by 40% and a new structure is structured for them, mainly benefiting the weakest and families with one and two children. In the same context, school meals are included for about 30 thousand primary school pupils. In addition, the number of nurseries is increasing by four hundred new units in 2018 in order to create another ten thousand jobs. After negotiations, disability benefits are not affected. At the same time, the electronic disability file is being launched, which will put an end to bureaucracy and relieve disabled people of stress and suffering. The objective is to deal with all outstanding annual pensions by June 2018. The budget for education is increased for the second consecutive year. Of course they must be credited to the Government and some changes in various sizes, mainly economic, such as the surplus in the ECA, the single social security institution, amounting to EUR 1 100.000 000, a result achieved by prudent management and the reduction of unemployment which is slow, but which is steadily falling. It is not negligible for the second consecutive year to increase the arrivals of the country's visitors and thus to increase the revenues from tourism. It is not negligible to complete the construction of the major road corridors within 2017. They have been frozen for several years, which the government has completed in record times and has benefited from the renegotiation of EUR 765 million. They were works with a clear development mark which, among other things, primarily creates a sense of security for drivers, saves lives and does not cause heavy or slight disabilities. It is not negligible to create local primary health units. Today the Prime Minister inaugurated the first one in Thessaloniki and then the other ones came in. The institutional overthrow achieved by restoring the privilege of labour requirements, in the process of forced execution and bankruptcy, is not negligible. Ladies and gentlemen, the main issue in the years of the memorandum is the establishment of a financial area, namely the establishment of funds, a very difficult procedure, making every memorandum of non-law and, where necessary, discriminatory in favour of some social strata. Nor is the budget of 2018 as fair as we would like, precisely because of the lack of financial space. We are, however, committed to the removal of the injustices, which have occurred in the years of the memoranda, mainly at the expense of the middle class and the free professionals by finding funds after the Memorandums and the country's waiver from the tight comitology. The resources secured, for example, for the social dividend in 2016 and 2017 were secured by prudent financial management, namely by avoiding unnecessary and, above all, deliberate waste. The avoidance of deliberate waste, ladies and gentlemen, of counter-population, is a product of ideology and of a life-saving attitude. Of course, in the years of your own government there were surpluses. But you did not distribute them as a social dividend. You distribute them in the form of loans, to the media, to the parties, to the business and not only the elite, in the form of purchases of uncompromising vaccines from the CEDEFOP with loans, in the form of distribution of undue advertising expenditure again from the CEDEFOP, in the form of recruitments, etc. If our own governance is characterized by ideological and incompetent governance, how do you characterize it forty years? Have you ever considered that the taxation of Greek citizens over time is largely due to the tax evasion of paradises and not just offshore, various papers and lists? Have you ever considered that EUR 400 million of your party loans would not be missing today from the state funds today? Ladies and gentlemen, in the last few days many foreign newspapers have referred to the credibility that the country is recovering. Proof of the interest rate of the last bond below 4.5%. We are sure that the debt decision is followed and then the memorial planning for the country's progress with a progressive and developmental sign will be laid down by this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u468	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Christos Dimas from the New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u469	Thank you, Mr President. Without screaming, but with arguments, I will try to break down five government myths of the budget and very simply to capture reality. First myth. We come out of the memorials and it's the last austerity budget. Indeed, in August 2018, the funding for the country expires. But do the obligations for the country end? No, they don't. You, the MPs of SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks, have voted for further austerity measures amounting to EUR 5.1 billion, reductions in pensions from 1-1-2019, further reductions in duty from 1-1-2020, possibly even further ahead. Also, your government has agreed on the medium-term programme 2019 to 2022, in which you will vote until May for primary surpluses of 3.5% for both 2019 and 2020 for both 2021 and 2022. So it's not the last austerity budget you bring to Parliament. But we hope that this will change with a new government. Second myth. You are allegedly strengthening social costs. This budget has reduced social costs by EUR 1.6 billion. I would remind you that you are moving forward in reducing and gradually abolishing the EAEC, that you are reducing the benefit of heating oil by 50%, reducing the cost of health care, abolishing family allowances, poverty benefits, unemployment benefits, and also increasing VAT on the islands. Third myth. Efficiency of the Greek economy. On your own days twenty-seven new taxes have been imposed, you have twice increased VAT rates, you have increased insurance contributions. Over seventy - seven thousand businesses have been closed on your own days. Over the last one and a half years they have booked over a hundred thousand free professionals, and also, on your own days, the overdue debts of private individuals to the State - what we owe, that is, we in the Greek public - now touch 100 billion. And it is worth telling you that with every month of governance SYRIZA - Independent Greeks, 1 billion is added to these debts. Moreover, 1/4 of these debts of the Greek State to the private debt has been made on your own days. And it's no coincidence that more than a thousand seizures per day are made. Over a million taxpayers have been subjected to enforcement measures, whether they are foreclosures or asset commitments, and you are, of course, going on to auction the first home. I should like to tell you that at the same time the state has become the largest malicious contributor. On your own days, Greek public debts to private individuals have reached 4.3 billion, which is 39% higher than what you received from us. Fourth legend. The budget is supposedly developmental. Let me tell you first of all that for this year, for 2017, you had estimated that we would have a positive growth rate of 2.7%. Ultimately, it's gonna be almost half-a-half, 1.4%. We all hope that the growth rate has been even higher, but unfortunately your policy and forecasts have been completely unstable. You had voted and had budgeted for this year's budget that we would have increased investments by 9.1% in 2017. Finally, you agree to a 5.1%, another very large failure! But let me also tell you about the competitiveness of the Greek economy. The "Doing Business" index of the World Bank has recently been published, according to which only in the last year we retreated by seven positions. Similarly, the Global Competitiveness Report indicator of the World Economic Forum shows that we are in the eighty-seventh place from a hundred thirty-seven countries. What, however, is the most shocking element in the effect of taxation on incentives for business? Of the thirty-seven countries we are last, ladies and gentlemen! And the effect of taxation on working, of the thirty-seven countries being the last. You say the budget is developmental. If it were development, I suppose you would have estimated more money in the Public Investment Programme. At the same time, someone will tell me, and budget the money in the Public Investment Programme, this year you have spent on development, not even half of what you had budgeted for the previous year. If the budget were to be developed, I suppose one would also talk about the absorption of the ESDP funds. Last year, according to the statements made by the Ministry of Economy and Development itself, in relation to what was provided for in the budget, the absorption of the NRP was 30% lower and I have not received any response from the Ministry of Economy and Development. I suppose they're accepting it, too. Fifth legend. Returning to normality. Back to normality we will have when the capital restrictions are lifted, when we stop having so high and so large debts in the insurance funds, when the flexible forms of employment cease to be the rule, but it is the exception, and when we do not have so much brain drain. We will also have a return to normality when we do not have the raw interventions in justice, as the President of the Council of State recently made the complaint and when we do not have the corruption issues. I would remind you, for those of you who do not know that about 75.8% of our fellow citizens consider that New Democracy's complaints about the Tsipra-Kammen scandal to sell the missiles in Saudi Arabia are a scandal. So only when we get through all these things, we can talk about a real return to normality. Therefore, as you can see, there is no way of voting on a budget which is in the wrong direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u470	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Nikolaos Paradiseopoulos from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u471	Ladies and gentlemen, I will refer to the previous speaker and congratulate him on saying that he will speak without screaming and he has indeed spoken. I disagree with the information you have given. I'll try to give some different evidence, Mr. Dimas. However, you are speaking in a way that makes it very easier for the debate, contrary to an early morning speech that came to my mind. I won't say a name, but you'll recognize him right away. He is the MP with the voice of tenor and with the most decibels of anyone else who screams saying that the SYRIZA MPs are screaming, who are, of course, rather low-speaking and, in any case, I don't think anyone has a similar voice. The State Budget for 2018 is a synthesis of objectives and needs. Needs relate to the primary surplus that we have to have, which determines the final levels of funds and, of course, is due to the country's commitments resulting from overcompensation, corruption and the uplift of its debt. We are, of course, constantly listening to the political leaders responsible for this overcompensation today and to criticise them. But this criticism requires that their own responsibilities should be safeguarded for these debts and that it is usually based on an argument which is misleading, namely that the SYRIZA Members have been saying in the past when it was not a government, something quite different, which has now been disproved. The fact is that the contract on which this government is based has been signed in September 2015 with the elections that were then held in the middle of the country's difficulties. And the promises - which were not, if you like, exactly promises - and the announcements that had been preceded by the elections by the SYRIZA in the past in 2013 and 2014, were not to be silenced, they did not even stress that, in order for them to be fulfilled, a conflict must take precedence over them. In other words, they were honestly said, stressing that there is also a risk of fulfilling them really, since there would be a conflict and conflict is never a certain outcome. However, we are reaching the needs today, in our efforts to meet the needs. This effort is made by the government on very different terms from those who promise the future of the Opposition. Opposition obviously favours the overcompression of labour costs and the shrinking of prosperous structures, but that is not the government's policy. Of course, in so far as these do not appear to be promoted by today's policy, i.e. the lowering of labour costs and the enrichment of social infrastructures, opposition is being destroyed. Destructiveness is disproved and disproved by numbers already in existence which relate either to growth rates or to the progress of unemployment or to other figures which are already recorded. But among the other elements which are being given and which are being disproved, I would like to dwell on something. I have heard today that, among other things, investors in our country do not find a suitable scope and in terms of security. And the colleague, who said so, said that we have a robbery in our country a minute. I have to say that I do not like to talk about lies, I prefer to talk about unfounded facts, but in any case here I can only talk about terminology, because we have no robbery in the minute. We know how many robberies we have, there's evidence. The total annual figure is less than five thousand. I have the record right here. For the whole year 2015, the total number was four thousand seven hundred seventy five robberies. The records were made on the basis of police evidence. In some cases we may also have ex post acquittals. Of course, this figure leads to a reality which is very different from that resulting from the reference to a robbery per minute. And you know, these reports don't hurt a party, they don't hurt a opposition party or a opposition party, they do evil in the country, because if anyone believes these numbers, they may have a concern about the investment they would want to do. What makes our country attractive for investment - and our country promises a better future for 2018 - even within the framework we have, is that our country is distinguished by economic and political stability, which is important to the economy and to investors. In addition, our country offers a satisfactory environment in order to carry out economic activities. This environment includes both the independent authorities and all the other institutions, including the statistical services, which are being strengthened and enriched now, which give a safe ground for economic development, for a fair development, such as the one which tries to vote in favour of the draft budget which I propose. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u472	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Vassilis Kikilis has the floor from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u473	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, in the same tons of modesty and wisdom, I would like to tell you that it is a challenge that you go up to the Step and comment on Civicism, because, unfortunately, those years and pass, despite the real elements of the Greek police, forensics and common sense in this country, no one can forget your incredible first law and the SYRIZA - ANEL government that abolished the C-type prisons in the Domokos and opened the rest of the prisons to be out unfortunately criminals from the brutal criminal law, terrorists, so that we live in our daily life as a Greek society terror, fear and feeling that the Greek Police can do its job well and arrest them from the other with your own laws again and illegally. I really feel sorry for that. But let me come to the budget. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately for the Greeks, the evil has been compromised. It is the third in a row of SYRIZA - ANEL, with new increases in taxes, insurance contributions and reductions in social costs. Let us not forget, this is a left-wing government, which cut down by the CSCE, EUR 283 million, which cut off the heating allowance, EUR 58 million, which reduced hospital subsidies. And all this together is about EUR 1.9 billion. You're swinging the finger in society and talking about supposedly a clean exit from the memorandum. The only clear, however, is the additional measures that are to be imposed since 2019. This is a cut in pensions and tax-free allowances, for primary surpluses of 3.5% by 2023, for permanent austerity by 2060. It is the fourth memorandum, ladies and gentlemen, which also has the signature of Mr Tsipras and Mr Kammenos. It's the memorial of the government majority. At the same time, you - I listen very carefully - in this Chamber of Parliament, in plenary, in the budget debate, are celebrating either by a courage or by ignorance or by both. I think you really don't understand what's going on. You have declared a payment stop to the Greek State. You don't pay anyone private. You've drained the market. You've exaggerated everyone. It is like stopping paying PPC, EYDAP, rent, and at the end to celebrate because they didn't take his house, with the following shocking, that you have broken the shorts because you get people's homes and even by electronic auctions. Ladies and gentlemen, it is the third in a row of budgets, in which of course you neglected to anticipate the implementation of the decision of the Council. on the payment of the remaining 50% of the retrospective members of the Armed Forces and the Security Corps, you, who have been in power with this explicit commitment of your colleague Mr. Kammenos that the decision of the Symphony will be implemented immediately. I read: "A prerequisite for the Independent Greeks to participate in government is the immediate implementation of the decision of the Board of Directors". In fact, Mr Kammenos spoke about the collapse of the constitution at that time. I have the impression that the works and the days of the civil leadership of the Ministry of National Defence will be a case study for several years and, as always, in the post-population, political decisions are specifically judged in the painful Ministry of National Defence and in the deceased it comes to judiciary being dealt with. Let it be like that. Ladies and gentlemen, it is your conscious choice - you have said so - overtaxation, which leads to the dissolution of the middle class, the impoverishment of low incomes and, of course, the generation of 360 euros. This is the generation of Tsipras - Kammenos, the generation of 360 euros. You're ruining every new man's dreams. Anyone who can leave abroad. Anyone who cannot stay here to watch you say that the evaluation is over, while you have already finished the real economy and the ability to find a job. Ladies and gentlemen, we will not let you build Greece of the poor. We say 'works - jobs - jobs' and we have a way to bring them. We are voting against your 2018 budget, in my opinion, your last budget. We have as a core of our policy the jobs for young people, the reduction of state spending, the complete reduction of taxation and the veil of despair for the well-being of the dreams of young people that you have brought to your governance, a sunshine of hope, but only through the truth and through a simple, simple, unmistakable and understandable vision, Minister, not that of a communist bell ringing in Wall Street, but that of a representative of citizens who through a difficult road can and can all drive the country out of the crisis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u474	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Stavros Arachovitis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u475	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u476	Here you go, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u477	Mr. Kikilis said that I am not entitled to speak, because I am responsible for a law that abolished press III prisons and let criminals go out. First of all, I would remind you that with the abolition of type III prisons, we had no escape from our prisons and that our prisons over the last two years have spent a long period of time without insurrection, which is unprecedented for their history and also, without murders. Because murders were also in 2014 in prisons and were also in the beginning of 2015, before the new policy was implemented. He also accused me of redundancies, of the decongestive law, called the Law of Friday. I can simply say that thanks to this law our prisons ceased to be bottlenecked to an extent for our country and for our culture, which had also led to a public declaration by the competent committee of the Council of Europe, the CPT, and also to a body of convictions. Furthermore, it has also led to safety, because, after the policy of decongestion, we have not had an increase in crime. We had a reduction in homicides, as shown by police evidence, no evidence of an increase in serious crime. Success doubles, therefore, due to an improvement in prison conditions and an improvement in security. Indeed, something will be after me all my life, as Mr Kikilis said: yellowism and populism. Because they know I'm dangerous, well he's chasing me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u478	Thank you, Mr. Paraskevi.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u479	Mr President, I am sorry, but I would like the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u480	Mr Kikilia, there can be no dialogue on this right now. You said something, answered Mr. Paradise. Let's not go on with this.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u481	No, Mr. President. Excuse me very much for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u482	Here, you have the floor for thirty seconds, if possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u483	I'm going to get over Mr. Professor's irritation. As to the arguments on populism and yellowism, I do not think so, because I did not speak with that look up there. Anyway, Minister, there are relatives who have lost their people under this law because the criminals have gone out of prison. There is your statement a few months ago that you are doubting your own law after the pressure of your colleagues and there is, of course, also the vast majority of the Greek society that has dismantled you from your law. I emphatically declare that the New Democracy will do the first thing that, when it becomes the same government, is to re-establish the Third Press Prisons in Domokos and abolish your unacceptable law. It is a promise and commitment to Greek society. In any case, we are in a crisis, Mr Minister, with memoranda and problems. At least people can live safely. By your law alone, this has not happened. I've been expecting more honesty than you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u484	Good. Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u485	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u486	Mr Stavros Arachovitis has the floor. Is that possible, Mr. Paraskevi? I invoke your logic now. There's a report that's been made, there's been a debate five minutes now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u487	Just a minute. I cannot answer that, Mr President. I'll be a regular.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u488	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u489	Firstly, I was not referring to yellowism and populism. It is clear, I think, but at any rate, that I am clarifying it to him. Secondly, I should like to say that my reference to the fact that this law, which we have been saying in the past, does not mean that it should be abolished at all - it is obvious - that when it was taken - we had the congestedness of prisons - it should not have been taken. I said that the law should be abolished as soon as we have a new Criminal Code under other conditions of application. As for the relatives, we certainly all express our grief. Unfortunately, there is relapse after release on all continents, in all years, and some relatives are always grieving. They have our support, we grieve with them and we do everything we can for more security.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u490	Thank you, Mr. Paraskevi. Mr Arachovitis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u491	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the 2018 budget that we are debating is a critical budget, because it is the one that will lead the country out of the grotesque memoranda in which you plunged the country in 2010. The budget also reflects the strong social elements of social justice for farmers. With a number of interventions in the tax system, we have built a protection net for the small and medium-sized farmers, who have been most affected in recent years of the crisis. We have achieved a significant reduction, in fact halving, of the average tax paid by producers as a whole. In the tax figures for incomes 2016, the average tax is EUR 150 compared with EUR 305 for 2015. I would point out that last year the tax law of the New Democracy and of the 2013 PASOK, which we managed to save the 12,000 tax-free allowances for subsidies, was still being applied. The most important thing, however, is that 89% of the main occupation of farmers who declared incomes in 2016 to 9 000 euros, that is, all small and medium-sized farms, only participated with 8.3% of the taxes in their category. Look, the total tax of all those who declared agricultural income for 2016 was EUR 125.5 million compared to EUR 175.9 million last year. The total income declared by the agricultural business activity for 2016 was 1.6 billion compared with 1.2 billion last year. In other words, this year, farmers paid 50 million less, while the declared income was 400 million more. This has been achieved by three areas which we have legislated and established. Firstly, we have introduced duty-free allowances of up to EUR 12 000, for connected and greening. We see it in the tax expenditure table on page 32. Secondly, all the subsidies under the second pillar of the CFP and all the allowances from the ELGA are not counted. Thirdly, we have introduced the tax deduction, the tax exemption of up to EUR 9,550, for taxpayers who are mainly professional farmers. We see it in the budget tax table on page 31. Farmers should not forget that the previous government of PASOK and New Democracy with Law 4172/2013 imposed tax on agricultural income from the first euro, including subsidies and agricultural allowances, while the advance payment of the tax had also been voted on. But it is not just the tax regime that we introduced to protect small and medium-sized farms. There has also been an urgent need for intervention in the farmers' fund. This is because the OGA was excluded as an insurance agency by Law 3863/2010, which meant that farmers would not receive basic benefits, since it would go down gradually by 2026, which would be completely abolished. Also, the OGA had suffered a PSI haircut of more than half a billion. With the interventions to the insurance system, we have achieved the following: first, there is no reduction in the basic pensions paid in the GAAP. Secondly, the farmer will now enjoy the same benefits as the other insured. Thirdly, the national pension of EUR 384 will be not the lowest, but the basis of calculation on which the total pension will be built. As a result of the interventions in insurance, therefore, with the connection to income, it is 90% of farmers today to pay the minimum, the minimum premium of EUR 87. I would like to stress, however, that, alongside our interventions, the performance of the EPC is such that it should be undeniable from the whole political spectrum. That's the reality. Here I would like to ask the New Democracy, which appears on the side of the weak farmers, but with clear arguments, what will it do for farmers? Will it abolish the three categories of tax that we have introduced? Will it restore Law 4172 and tax everything from the first euro? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] With all the tax and insurance regulations, therefore, which have become social justice, farmers are also being founded, as 90% are benefiting, which is backbone and small and medium-sized farms, small and medium-sized producers. At the same time, all payments in the rural area have entered a classroom and a normality. A characteristic is the example of organic farming and livestock farming. Not only the payments of the entire previous programming period have been in a series, settled and paid, but in November the farmers who joined the new programming period for organic farming saw the advance payment being credited to their accounts. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Give me one more minute, Mr President. Order, apart from payments from OPECPE and programmes, we also have allowances from the ELGA. Here there is a normalisation of compensation, which is an important factor of stabilisation and security for farmers, but also the driving force for the continuation of their production process. Ladies and gentlemen, the development dynamics in agriculture have already been recorded in the accounts for the last two years, but it is also reflected in the 2018 budget that we are debating. In any case, we are neither celebrating nor reassuring, and much more we are not talking about success story. The problems in primary production that have accumulated are too many and require immediate and radical solutions. We are constantly and unequivocally in the fight for the further relief of farmers, which goes through the fight against tax evasion, not only the tax evasion of the cheese pie, but the tax evasion of offshore and of big capital. With knowledge and vision, we are engraving the next day in the primary sector with a plan for the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u492	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Dimitrios Gatis has the floor from SYRIZA. Abstentions. Mr Dimitrios Kyriazides has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u493	Thank you, Mr President. The debate on economic content, such as the budget, concerns a country of course also its people. And while he would expect every citizen to think, serious, responsible, even with a vote of remorse, you will come here today, but also with an apology for what you have committed yourself to doing and to do quite the opposite, of course, at every level, you also ask for the change without shame, without a trace of tea. In fact, you're swinging the finger, unfortunately, most of you, as we saw in the morning by certain ministers, demonstrating and without being blushed in particular, I would say, aggression. Three years of governance you have voted for two memoranda, with unfavourable measures and the next government. I remember you these days during the budget debate three years ago as a counterpopulation, leaving this Chamber and making the known figurines with your "indignant" in the Syntagma Square, you were returning to this room by finding us, while Athens was burning from one end to the other. And as it is next, to remain in power, you will alleviate with the devil. And that's exactly what you're doing. You have confessed that you are crooks, later liars, and now you prove that you are also thieves. 80% of Greeks today, society says that this issue is indeed a scandal for Mr. Kammenos's equipment. And of course, 15 posts have been posted on the global corruption classification page, our country - fifteen posts, Mr Marda! - while in 2012-2014 our country in this table was 25 places below. The only element that distinguishes you and keeps you tied up is power. As barbers of politics you have made the resalto, you have understood the ship of power - and you have started the plaiting - as, as you say, this has been an historical necessity, a right. You are trying in every way to become a regime, that is to say, by abolishing independent authorities, by controlling the media, by intervening in a total and perception of the functioning of justice, by releasing hundreds of barbecues. Of course, you are also intervening in education, in the educational community, threatening and removing obstacles. There is also no bill that contains no new addresses, new secretariats, with hundreds of recruitments, appointments, by way of derogation from any provision and legislation. This is also the case with the award of millions of projects. The aim and purpose is to demolition and demolition of the state. As a political contributor, that only unites you. And of course, the prevalence of a distorted left ideology, with a society that is flattened, poor, with piles, coupons, social medicine, pharmacies, grocery stores. Well, everybody in line. On the other hand, you as the new regime were the nomenclara of the regime. What internally happens in the country and what happens is not of interest to them outside this country. What they care about is the service of their interests and very willingly you as a subordinate to the lenders indisputably accepted and accepted everything, mortgageing the country for ninety years. Neither a deletion nor a withdrawal of Members of this Parliament from the unholy alliance of this government. Unique concern to maintain your status, to survive personally. And each time you invent new parallel tales, such as the parallel program and so forth. You have, to date, imposed twenty-seven new taxes and twenty-one reductions in pensions and social benefits. You've reduced your tax rate twice. And all this was supposed to be of particular pain. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] There's a mouse proverb. In the evening you go, eat with the wolf on the sheep and the other day in the morning, go and cry with the chop. This, unfortunately, is the harsh reality. And, of course, there are fifteen new taxes, cuts in fifty thousand uniforms, into Armed Forces and Security Body, and that goes on in the next few years. As a new officer I was listening - because a few years I served in Athens - "three and sixty take the world and beat the world." And here is the punishment of the story now that you have actually done - in three years' time - a generation of 360 euros and of course you are resenting this world. These, unfortunately, are the harsh reality. On the other hand, of course, we also have what we have said before. Unfortunately, this is the harsh reality. You are making fun of society, you are mocking in particular people with a special duty and mission, such as workers in the Armed Forces and Security Body. In 2015 Mr Kammenos here assured us that the amount of compliance with the Council of State's decision has been guaranteed. In 2016, Mr. Juliarakis said that this was guaranteed by the Minister of Defence, so these will be attributed. I'm filing out all the lies you've been saying all the time and all the time. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitris Kyriazides, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Stenography and Practices of the Parliament.]] And of course, the new payroll with new cuts is coming to get a worker in the Armed Forces and Security Body a six hundred with a mere night. That is where you have come up with these people, who are many times, and today you have a special need for them because they are protecting you too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u494	Mr. Comrade, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u495	I will end in a minute, Mr President. And I come to this cut-off drama. Forgotten, isolated. Three years not a project: neither the vertical axis, the public IEKs are closed, the disabled, the children with problems are removed from the social structures, the oenology section is threatened to close. As far as health is concerned, the Medical Association, as well as the doctors, are constantly protesting. You neglected Nerokopi in the sense that there was a special regime, but you abolished that. And of course a few things were left in Drama, like wineries. You have, of course, also taxed wine, with a variety of difficulties. Since April this year, the Ministry of Finance has been waiting for the approval of a project, an expense for the Fallar Ski Centre, but you have forgotten that too. And in prisons, which were delivered to you at 92% of their function, three years of doing nothing. It is simply to contractors that the taxpayer is obliged to pay, because of your own inadequacy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u496	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mrs Vayonakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u497	Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a difficult but hopeful, I believe, budget. Hard in the sense of a high surplus of 3.5%. I would remind you, however, that this is clearly less than 4.5% by 2030, as predicted by the medium-term of the New Democracy and the PASOK. But this is also a hopeful budget in the sense that it is the last budget within economic contracts. And as much as, ladies and gentlemen of Anti-Population, you want to underestimate this fact, the exit from the memorandum is a milestone, for two obvious reasons. Firstly, because the committee is stopping and we are therefore going to recover part of our independence, and secondly, because the way is opening up to the development and implementation of a strategic plan for productive reconstruction in the country, not by returning naturally to the counterproductive past, but by signalling a new production model, starting from today. And as much as monotony the Opposition breaks the same and the same arguments, an important part of the citizens are already discussing how the future will be in the memorandum era. I personally believe that this is where we will be dealing with both as a government and as a parliamentary majority, namely whether we are going to move on to productive reconstruction and whether we will be able to redistribute income in favour of small and medium-sized enterprises and reduce the gap between rich and poor, which has been widened in the years of the crisis. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the 2018 budget, which of course takes place within the financial constraints imposed in 2010, is trying to balance three things: Firstly, to balance public finances in a soft fiscal adjustment and through a smooth return to markets. Secondly, to move even more firmly along the path of growth, which is predicted by 2.5% in 2018. Thirdly, he should be as fair and redistributive as possible. I think that the 2018 budget has all three elements, because no one - mainly abroad and less, where micro-partyism does not allow a sober and objective analysis of the data - no longer bets on the disaster and everyone sees the exit from the tunnel. After all, this was best certified when we came out of the excessive deficit countries months ago. The government's plan comes out thanks to the sacrifices of the world of work. Interest rates go down every day and market access seems certain. The government's attempt at the 15 billion-dollar pillow, which will come by 9 billion from the ESM and 6 billion from our outlet on the markets - we already have 1.4, is creating another hindrance for the future. I would like to say that for no one was easy and, above all, it was not easy for us to take budgetary measures. But I wonder about the hypocrisy of New Democracy and PASOK, which in the years 2010-2014 took measures of the order of 63 billion, to blame us for fiscal policy, pension cuts and all that we hear every day, when the measures implemented and implemented are in the order of 14 billion. That is what you said earlier, Mr Stakoura.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u498	Right, 14.5. Most of the second memorandum.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u499	That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about a soft adjustment. I'm one of the positive sciences, and I know 60 is not equal to 14.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u500	From the second memorandum. You're messing with it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u501	So don't make comparisons and we're not so hypocritical. But the budget also has a developmental nature. We support the fact that the growth rate of the economy will reach 2.5%, and we believe that this is a realistic objective, and that is based on increasing private consumption by 1.2% because of falling unemployment and increasing employment, increasing gross fixed capital by improving the investment environment, improving the deficit in the balance of goods and services due to increased exports. In all this, I would add the fact that the country's production capacity has fallen by about 10% in the years of the crisis, so the recovery margins are much higher. This has also happened in other countries which have been in adjustment and recession programmes and have emerged from them. So we are well-founded in terms of growth rates. In addition, other indicators make us optimistic, such as the absorption of the NRP. I remember that for the first year it was 7% and we went to 11% and I think that in the second year we are over 20% and it is possible to reach 22% as well. It is also an increase in funds in research and technology and, finally, a reduction in unemployment for the first time, which reaches 20%. I arrive at the redistributive nature of the budget. Since the first day we took over the country's governance, we have tried to create a social protection net. So, in 2015, in times of budgetary suffocation, we legislated the humanitarian crisis measures of EUR 100 million. In 2016, we implemented the humanitarian crisis measures and piloted the social solidarity income of EUR 270 million. In 2017, the social income of solidarity amounting to EUR 700 million was fully applied. In 2018, we are fully applying the social income of EUR 720 million, but we also add EUR 315 million to the fight against child poverty, that is, over EUR 1 billion. In essence, a programme, which will also be extended in 2019, has been launched since 2018, based on the countermeasures that we voted on last year. I would like to end this in 2018 will have a positive sign for my country, Crete. Because 2018 begins to implement the effort for the northern road axis, the most important infrastructure project in our country after sixty years. It therefore enters a realignment, as in 2018, the roadway from Chania to Agios Nikolaos will be auctioned, according to what Tsipras, comrade Tsipras, as well as from this step, the Minister for Transport and Infrastructure, promised at the development conference. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u502	Thank you, my colleague. My colleague, Ilias Cameroon, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u503	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I disagree with all my fellow Members and colleagues who are addressing the opposition on one point and then, of course, on the other. Because in here we're supposed to be having a dialogue. However, it is not possible to dialog from one point to the next. Because while we have repeatedly answered many issues that go through, the opposition comes with the same things, as if we were talking about a wall, as if he heard nothing. He doesn't have a dialogue. For example, it tells us again and again that we have charged EUR 100 billion to the country, that nothing has been absorbed from the Juncker package, etc. I do not want to go further because they have been said very well and thoroughly, and the President of Parliament and our parliamentary representative and many colleagues and colleagues have said so. I am addressing those who are listening to us and want to tell them that all those who have referred to above are hypocritical. Hypocrites, what's he gonna say? Others say they mean more. As much has been said, I will try to prove that by one example only from the VAT on the islands. The abolition of the reduced VAT rate on the islands we all know that it was in Hardouvel's mail and that it was planned to be made by the governments of the New Democracy and PASOK. He was in the Yunker proposition when we were blackmailed in the summer of 2015. Remember what the Opposition said to us: Vote the ravine. We had a referendum, they were in favour of 'yes', they struggled to vote on it. What was in there? Was it not the abolition of the reduced rate of VAT? And they are now coming and complaining and they are accusing us of abolishing the reduced VAT rate? We were imposed on us in 2015, we know how, as well as many things, through the programme that we agreed on, we voted in the House and the opposition voted, those who are now abducing and protesting. In the second assessment we were told that we were delaying and that we had to vote on it, not creating problems, etc. You remember very well that we extended the reduced rates to the third category of the islands, the thirty-two islands, and this was done with one-sided energy, as was the distribution of the dividend. We have been accused of having failed to reach agreement with the partners. Is there more hypocrisy? The perpetual fact is that the Democratic Assent now brings in a proposal to suspend the abolition of the reduced rate of VAT on these thirty two islands. I would ask, if I were to ask them, what they mean. Without consultation with the institutions? What do they mean? Shouldn't the third evaluation be closed? Why not go and finish the story on January 22nd and move on, according to the schedule from the summer of 2015? It is therefore hypocritical that they are interested in VAT. Finally, let us not forget that if we are talking now about the fact that there is even in the thirty-two islands a reduced rate of VAT, we are talking about it because we have a government of SYRIZA - ANEL. The rates would have been abolished much earlier than the previous governments. Even - if you want, and in the summer, when we had the tough negotiation, the SYRIZA - ANEL government was the one who put a ban on three groups and didn't put it out. I'll actually get in for the VAT. We know that it is a measure, which was adopted in 1986, which was implemented in 1987 and has so far been the only measure of islandity. Have the problems of the islands with this measure been solved? Are the communication problems solved? Is the coastline undone? Is air traffic undone? Monopolies were created on board both ships and aircraft. I say this on several occasions, that there is a EUR 600 container coming from China and that it wants EUR 1500 to get a truck to an island, for example, in Kos. Have the problems of services been solved? They have been without employees all these years, especially small islands and small municipalities. They booked services, like taxes on islands. Are health problems solved? The small islands were without doctors. The hospitals were without doctors. It was reduced budgets in hospitals, contrary to what our government is doing today. Are the problems of education solved? Is development solved? We know that all these years of over-concentration of development, particularly tourists, has occurred only in hotels on large islands, with all the problems that have arisen in the development of the islands this distorting way of development. Was that their island policy? Was that their concern for the islands? Even the reduced rates of VAT they have retained so far did not apply them as they should, but distorted. I will give you an example for those who do not know it: it is assumed that the reduced rate of VAT has entered to balance the mess with increased transport. Do you know that also within this scheme with the reduced rate of VAT, transport VAT is 24%? And it was supposed to be transport. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In a minute, Mr President, I shall end. Do you know that in electrical appliances and in all of this there is no reduced rate of VAT in this scheme? You know he doesn't have a cell phone? So the question of VAT does not replace the issue of islands. What do we do? We're seeing it more than that. We are implementing an overall island policy. Soon we will have the transport equivalent. This is a clarification for those who don't know it or don't understand it. It will be applied in such a way that the cost of transporting people and products from one place to the other in the sea is as high as it costs a corresponding distance to the land. We are ambitious that this will be implemented in 2018. But it's not the only one. Cheers, hospitals have been strengthened. Health centres have been strengthened. They've been agricultural doctors on the islands. We established that military doctors can do their duty with their farm, and right now, we have doctors on small islands we didn't have. He goes to a doctor once a week on islands with fifteen, twenty and twenty - five inhabitants, who didn't go. All schools have teachers and teachers, and indeed, on time. We're working on a tele-education program and a strengthening teaching program. Services, police, port, etc. There are very few gaps, up to nothing while we've had gaps for so many years. OTAs have been strengthened in both staff and finance, especially in the islands. Developmental incentives are provided for the NSRF, special incentives for development law, for farmers in particular. I could say a lot, but I'm committed to finishing. I conclude by saying that a question arises here at this time. Because voting for the budget is like giving the government a vote of confidence. For all that we are accused of, is it worth bringing back those who have been responsible for the situation we have been in? The dilemma that comes in is: Who will care about the wrongdoer? Who will care, as SYRIZA does so far, to restore a balance for fair growth? And because I don't have time...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u504	You don't have time, Mr. Kamaterre. We're at nine minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u505	I'm done. The answer is easy to understand from what all the speakers have said.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u506	Thank you very much. My colleague, Dr. Dritsa, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u507	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Stavoura, if you're kind enough, stay in the Chamber because I'm going to start with your own intervention. You don't have to, but if you want to, stay. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the budget is indeed very serious, topical, it requires an analysis of all the expenditure and revenues, but always in conjunction with the state of the country's economy, as well as the targets pursued by each budget. I believe that our rapporteurs also did so by the Ministers in the area of their responsibility and many Members in detail, I do not want to tire with numbers, but not selectively. Here I would like to tell you, Mr Stakoura, that you tabled the Minutes of the House, but I have had it since the date of the publication of the NAYTTERMORIC front page on 24 November, the OECD table on the overtaxation that has taken place in Greece. Indeed, there is between 2015 and 2016 an increase in the tax burden on the Greek economy by a percentage of GDP. Accordingly, in three major countries, Sweden, the Netherlands and a smaller Estonia, there has also been an increase in only one, Austria, a slight reduction. In all other cases, there has been little increase or the same rate of taxation on the gross national product of countries. But that is not the main issue. The point is that Greece, with 38.56%, is tenth in a row, with a little more, three and a half points above the OECD average, when - notice - first in a proportion of taxes on gross national product is Denmark. How much? With 45.94% of taxes on gross national product. And follow France, Belgium, Finland, Sweden, Italy, Austria, Hungary, the Netherlands and then Greece. And with little difference in percentages, Norway, Germany and Luxembourg follow. What does that mean? That Denmark exaggerates and eliminates its population and operates in real terms? Of course not. It is the biggest demonstration of this table that taxation works in relation to productivity, with the prospects of planning the next step and cannot be a gruesome process of income collection, and that is precisely what our government is doing for the first time, including the steps of taxation until we get to the point where we want and we will get to by the end of 2018, in such a way that it has social and productive results. And now we say that the budget actually has hierarchies, and for us it is very characteristic that the first hierarchy is its social character, its social identity. And when we say that it is the last Memorandum of Understanding that the Greek Parliament is voting on, this applies and it is because all the data show that the expectation is correct that we are completing this programme which has many negative and adverse consequences for the world. We're finishing up and going out in the other phase. We come out with forces, with possibilities, with prerequisites, that can give us real and solid possibilities to reassess the perspective of 2019 and 2020. This is part of this budget as it was in the previous budget. For us, the Memorandum, apart from inhibition to pursue social policies, is an instrument as we have seen it, because in the circumstances of the memorandum we did something that no government in Greece has done in conditions of prosperity. We are organising a step - a step forward in all the co-legislative ministries - and economic and social welfare and health - the re-establishment - I am modest, I am not going to say the establishment, because it is actually the establishment, but I am going to say the re-establishment - of the social state. That is step by step. Where? Under memorial conditions, in crisis conditions, in bankruptcy conditions. All the designs there tend. And where? When the "blooded" surpluses, as it is said, are indeed intended to be treated and respond to the debt, as has been regulated by this correlation between the powers of the lenders with political objectives, with political purposes, with forced labour, etc. Here, too, we need to have a clear debate. In order to get rid of or to reduce the famous "blooded" surpluses, we must have systematically gone to questioning and demanding the renegotiation of the debt. We have done so and, in fact, has grown since the closure of the third assessment, the serious and well-founded start and resumption of this debate on debt renegotiation, on the other hand - we must say - of unilateral debt decommissioning. However, as the act in history, which we have never tried this way, has shown, but there have been issues of demanding another policy - and in 2015 - and redefinition of debt, international conditions have shown that it is easier to overthrow global capitalism than to open up the debate on debt restructuring in 2015, much more the debate on his unilateral question and his unilateral deletion. If nothing else were to happen, there would have to be a soviet! Isn't that right? That's not how these things happen, because a government wants it. So, in this direction, we are restoring injustices, we are supporting social wages, we are balancing the constant austerity until we reorientate it and stop it in connection with European developments as well. From this point of view, our social policy is not charity, because the introduction of the allowance for the first and second children, which is the norm for the Greek family, school meals, insurers who have health care and many others, are not isolated and fragmented. They are integrated into a comprehensive plan of organisation and support for the new social state in Greece, which will be a great conquest with the exit from the memoranda and the exit from the economic crisis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u508	Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u509	I have one comment to make, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u510	We're at nine minutes. Please very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u511	I know, but because I have also received a personal insinuation from the former Minister of Shipping, Mr. Varvitsiotis, I will reply to him with my announcement in the next few days. But it can't be taken care of what he did at the Ministry of Shipping. Of the four ships we were able to save from a bankrupt shipyard, from which he ordered, we saved the two. For the other two, we have had to take down the company, and at least we have not lost much else, which I can mention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u512	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u513	Mr. Stavura, what do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u514	Would you excuse me for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u515	Ladies and gentlemen, I just want us to respect a little bit of time, because our colleagues who follow, not now, but in the next few days, will be brought to the four-minute and five-minute. Let's respect the time. Here you go, Mr Stakoura, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u516	Mr. Dritsa, because you referred to the evidence I gave and said that it was selective, I would tell you that I did not give any selective evidence. I have given the OECD report, I have given the European Commission's report, the figures from the Ministry of Finance, in order to highlight and demonstrate three things: overtaxation, the exhaustion of citizens' tax capacity and the fact that tax evasion has increased because of high taxes. In this report, which you mention and you speak about the percentages of other countries you do not see that the report itself says that Greece, since the fifteenth place that was in 2015, has gone to the tenth place in 2016. So the tax burden was increased. Also, in the study by the European Commission, which I have also tabled and which you have not touched at all, Greece is the first country in Europe to increase the taxation of households and businesses in 2016. Thirdly, you have not mentioned the enlargement of tax evasion, as the European Commission says. And fourthly, you said nothing about the evidence from the Ministry of Finance, which says that the late private debts have exceeded EUR 100 billion, with a million seizures for citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u517	Mr President, I too would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u518	Mr. Dritsa, the Rules of Procedure do not allow two speeches to be made. Because two speeches are now being delivered. Mr. Stakoras has been seconded, you are seconded.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u519	I am a parliamentary representative, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u520	Here you go, Mr. Dritsa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u521	Mr. Stavoura, you refer to Greece's fifteenth place on the 2015 OECD list. In fact, you are talking about 2014 and the previous years, when tax evasion and tax evasion were blossing. That is why Greece should be fifteenth. And you knew very well that these were the policies that led us to the Tartars and the cliff. There is no serious country to blame, because otherwise nothing is being organized. From there on, I have referred to a table showing that nine rich OECD countries are taxing much more than our country. That's what the painting says.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u522	Mr. Drizza, thank you. Mr Spyridon Lappas has the floor. He's absent. Mr. Cavadas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u523	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the budget that we are debating today reflects the government's inability to invest in the restructuring of the economy. Unfortunately, we have an anti-development budget, which moves to the logic of taxes, cuts and cuts, in the logic of the left-wing, the so-called philosophical government, whose economic policy is exhausted to taxation and cuts in incomes, without any planning for growth and exit from the crisis. The absurd, ladies and gentlemen, is that the government no longer cares where it will claim almost EUR 1.9 billion additional measures next year. It will remain as a historical mention that the Minister of Finance, Mr. Tsakalotos, proudly states that the overtaxation of the middle class last year, of the order that was kneeled over his own government and with him, was kneeled by the whole real economy. This time, however, SYRIZA’s so-called philosophical government is looking for them by the poorest, the weakest and the most troubled of all the years of the crisis. It seeks them from those who claim to protect and strengthen its policy. She's asking for them from the vulnerable groups. I wonder, Minister, if the hundreds of thousands of retired people who lose the CSCE are in the vulnerable groups. Two million citizens, of whom 10% of medical expenses are no longer deducted and are mainly the elderly and our weakest fellow citizens, do not belong to the vulnerable groups? The third parties and the multitude, to which the allowances are reduced, do not belong to the vulnerable groups? Do the inhabitants of the islands not need our support, since in the new year all the islands of Greece will have an increased VAT rate? Does our tourism not need support, our only hope, to which a tax on stays of up to EUR 4 is imposed? Once again, we have an increase in insurance contributions for freelance professionals. We have new payroll cuts, especially for about a hundred and fifty thousand teams, and at the same time that you still owe them 50% of the rest of the retrospectives. We have a 50% reduction in the heating allowance, which will of course cost the mountain areas expensive. At the same time, despite the Prime Minister's announcements to abolish, you insist on maintaining the failed measure of excise duty on wine, which not only did not produce the expected revenue, but on the contrary dismantled the trade, depriving the industry of significant revenues and harming the capacity and extroversion of healthy businesses. Gentlemen of the conflict, you are proud and glad to return to the weakest of the EUR 700 million this year and EUR 600 million last year. You are trying to convince us that the surplus distributed is the result of the dynamics of the economy. Unfortunately for you, everyone knows that the surplus is the result of overtaxing all incomes, cuts, wages and pensions, debts that are not repaid from public funds to private individuals. It's money missing from the citizens' pockets, which have come out of their own sweat. Citizens pay for the government's austerity policies and the two uncompromising memorials they signed, policies that have devastated Greek households since 2015, have plunged Greece, kept it entrenched in the recession, unemployment and have led thousands of young children to leave our country. It is a government that puts continuous obstacles to any investment in our country, from Greek to Skouria, but also to smaller investments. And not only that, but it is a government that cannot decide for important infrastructure projects either. Let me give you an example: the Minister for Infrastructure canceled last year with his decision the work of the submarine link between Lefkada and Ioannina and a year later, a few days ago, the Prime Minister announces from Corfu again the same work. Is this a serious government project? And I am glad that the Minister of Education is in the Chamber, because even in education, while you are planning an increase in expenditure, you are excluding Lefkada from the unification of the Ionian University with the TEI by abolishing, Mr Minister, as it seems to have been, the two sections that operate on our island. With what reason do you leave Lefkada outside of higher education? Why should Lefkada not participate in the Regional Ionian University? Isn't Lefkada part of the Ionian Islands? The Lefkadadians expect that the education provided on the island is not degraded, that higher education remains in Lefkada. And Lefkada will fight for it. You cannot gold the pill with two years of study programs that are not higher education. So we tell you to keep and upgrade higher education in Lefkada! This is your obligation! Ladies and gentlemen, the Greek economy is going from bad to worse, not even 1 euro from the ESRB has yet reached a final beneficiary. The available income of consumers has been further reduced. Tens of thousands of businesses have experienced seizures of their bank accounts. And that's because SYRIZA - ANEL colluding doesn't want to and he can't get the country out of this dead end. Ladies and gentlemen, the government in three years has lost the moral advantage. And with regard to the issue of selling the war material to Saudi Arabia, ladies and gentlemen of the government, you are still exposed to Greek citizens, since 75.8% of the citizens, according to a survey, believe that it is a serious scandal. Amongst other things, the MRB's poll states: "The noteworthy indeed is that it has 36.8% of SYRIZA's voters and 45.2% of the ANEL voters, who also consider that the same scandal threatens the government, despite Mr Tsipras and Mr Kammenos's obvious efforts not only to degrade it, but also to cover them. Ladies and gentlemen, the country needs a government that recognises as the engine of economic and social development the least of the taxes, a government that can support investment, which can support the business initiative in order to produce wealth, which is determined to bring jobs and keep its children in their place, which will bring back to Greek citizens the dignity of their daily life to the Greek pensioners. This can only be achieved by a New Democracy government. Another way from New Democracy and Kyriakos Mitsotakis does not exist. All Greek citizens know that. Of course the New Democracy is also voting against this budget. Thank you very much for your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u524	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u525	Mr President, can I answer because I was asked a personal question?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u526	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u527	The good colleague, unfortunately, is not informed and I understand all the reasons for local consumption, but I would like to inform him of the following: Firstly, we need to have full respect for the findings of committees, which are exclusively academic criteria. The politicians won't replace their academics. Secondly, especially on the issue of Lefkada, there has been a decision by the committee. We had a very systematic discussion with the mayor, and we decided: Lefkada becomes the centre of the two-year studies of the Ionian University. It is also founded "Research Institute Nikos Svoronos", in the name of the history and library that it has left in Lefkada. Thirdly and importantly, until May, when it will be decided to set up the new departments throughout Greece, Lefkada presents a proposal for a section of university shipping and after the study carried out by the University of Piraeus. So I say that these are probably showing an incredible upgrade rather than a reproduction of shapes, which have been deadlocked for so long. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u528	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u529	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u530	Mr. Kavvada, I invoke your logic again. There is no comment on the speeches. They're not responding. The Minister has given some clarifications. Let's not have a dialogue. Mrs Theophevette has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u531	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, as other colleagues have said, the third assessment is being completed in the General Eurogroup and the debt debate is starting and a number of technical and economic issues that will lead the country out of memoranda, without a precautionary credit support line in the summer of 2018. Even the hardest critics of the country, the international media and representatives of institutions, recognize the efforts of the government and the sacrifices of the Greek people. This is reflected in international markets and in international rating agencies. The loan interest rate in the 10-year bond is at the height of 2009. The country is located for three consecutive quarters in development, for the first time since 2006. Coming into the final straight, it is obvious that the country's economy is beginning to recover. The previous policies based on public lending and creating deficits, but also debts, have not only brought about an economic crisis and extreme poverty, but have highlighted the total absence of basic structures for the development of the country and the protection of the weak. The crisis, that is, was not just economic. It was and is a multi-level crisis of the country's overall model of operation, which collapsed overall, drifting through the domino process and aspects of everyday economic and social life. But it is time for a different plan for the country. This is what we are talking about at regional conferences with local communities and institutions and - why hide it? - by discussing and mainly listening, we learn a lot and start correcting adequate weaknesses and mistakes. This new project wants to give space and potential to the creative strata of society and the economy, which have been in lethargy for years. It is a new concept, which, inspired by prevailing dynamics, can be a method of saving resources and making use of public property, which - apart from the Secretary of State for Finance in the committees that have been discussed in the budget, as far as I have followed the speeches - I think many colleagues have not mentioned. As we know, the Greek state has had a huge building stock, a huge wealth that has been unexploited for years and unexploited by the indifference of administrative leaders, political interventions, the lack of long-term planning and resources, as well as the inadequate database. At last, therefore, an effort has been launched to create a modern and comprehensive policy on public real estate, by recording, protecting and exploiting it, and by simplifying and simplifying procedures in terms of an institutional framework. It is modern in the sense of adopting the instruments available today on the international market for flexible management tools and, overall, in the sense that the aspects of this policy are combined and fall within a single strategic concept of public interest in relation to the exploitation of public property. I would like to mention here as an example the efforts that have been made by the Ministry of Labour to make use of its property and the funds. They are impressively the results of the previous record, according to which there are scattered across the country a thousand and twenty-six buildings, about half of them in abandonment, many of them are kept, while insurers pay great rents for their housing. Also, the use of these first twenty-four buildings in the historic center of Athens in collaboration with the School of Architectures of the National Technical University of Athens begins. A huge building public wealth of a first estimate of 1.3 billion what does it mean for saving ECA resources? What does it mean to save rent expenses? What does it mean for the neighborhood and the upgrading of the area? In the same Ministry, the property of the public institutions is also remarkable. Their recording began in 2015 with two hundred sixteen real estates and through the National Registry today have been recorded around a thousand sixty supervised social welfare bodies. Another new programme of the Ministry of Economy and Development entitled "Old buildings in new use" stimulates the development of the municipalities, in order to make use of properties that are devastated within the urban fabric of the city or the settlement. It brings about seven hundred new jobs and turns abandoned buildings from inertia into nucleus of culture and social activities, contributing in prototypes to meeting needs and highlighting new and important solutions in all fields, cultural, social and, in particular, economics that is our great concern, as our proposals in this budget show. Ladies and gentlemen, as I mentioned at the beginning of my speech, it is not just our view that our economy is recovering, that our country is returning to the markets, that confidence in the Greek public bonds is returning, that we will have a clear exit from the programmes in August. The recent positive estimates for the country of the Italian newspaper ‘IL FOGLIO’, Vice-President of the European Commission Dobrovski, WALL STREET JOURNAL, HANDELSBLATT and Deutsche Bank have not only been analysed sufficiently, but have artificially concealed a large portion of the domestic media. Why is that? Ladies and gentlemen, taking into account the international circumstances and the particularly unstable conditions in our wider region, our country is a force of stability and peace and moves towards alliances, extending the hand of friendship and cooperation to neighbouring peoples to strengthen peace, which is also the great cause in our times, in order to consolidate democracy, solidarity and respect for human rights. Despite the catastrophe that the two previous budgets would not come out, not only were the objectives achieved, but have been exceeded, the credibility of the country is restored, and for the second year it shares a social dividend to those who need it most. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to conclude by saying that the different strategies of the country's political forces are evident for the next day on the organisation of society. Citizens and all the political forces are called upon to put themselves, not by cries, to the questions and challenges which the memorial period urgently poses. No one will be able to hide or avoid them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u532	Thank you, my colleague. Mr Athanasios Papachristopoulos, Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u533	Thank you, Mr President. I was just listening to a confrontation that the former Minister of Justice had with Mr Kikilia. I heard Mr. Kiklia's passion that he'll rebuild the press prisons that Mr. Paradoxopoulos had abolished. So it came to my mind that the lecture I was listening to two days ago at the "Aliki" theatre from an old acquaintance to the old, the new ones don't even remember her, Angela Davis, who had fought for human rights, feminist movements, has been imprisoned. I'm telling you this girl's been ahead of Martin Luther King and Kennedy's murder. They're two worlds different. So in the midst of the many things Angela Davis said is that she is envisioned one day - no one believes that prisons need - that there are no prisons at all. I'm closing the parentheses. I think we're getting a lot separated. They're two different worlds. I listen very respectfully to a lot of Officerial Opposition MPs. One of them is Christos Stakoras. He always speaks of evidence and doesn't cry. One may disagree with him, but he certainly hears him. So I want my friend Stavros to answer two questions. One is whether it considers a party moral and appropriate to have charged the Greek citizen over 200 million. I'm not talking about PASOK, that's all. He said something at the beginning of his election, Mr. Mitsotakis. Then he didn't talk again. Some have apparently said to him: 'Let it go, don't say it again'. I would like to hear his opinion on this, because selective sensitivity within this Chamber should not exist. Secondly, I have before me a law passed since 1995. It is a law which imposes, does not ask, on channels and radios, on all media, when something has to do with public health - I say these because I happen to be in the Committee on Health Examination - so with sanctions - I have it here in front of me - it imposes messages on radios, newspapers, etc. to be free. I'll say it again, free of charge. Do you want me to read the law? I've got him here. It also says sanctions. It is adopted in 1995. Somewhere in 1997 he writes here. I have a list of media in front of me, the ones who make journalism selective. I can't imagine a band taking 1.5 million, 2.5 million from CEDEFOP, 700,000 from CEDEFOP, 800,000. I also have this list. I must also admit that these people did not steal, they were given the CEDEFOP, that is, the state. I also have a terrible report by a sympathetic but unhappy one - I would say - State Secretary of Mrs Skoulis, which we were examining, which calls for the dismissal of the board of directors, calls for documents that do not give it to her and goes by saying. Three, four years about the Greek State spent, through CEDEFOP - which was not in public accounting, nothing - about 55 million. I have it in front of me. I didn't hear anyone smack about it. I see them aggressive, vulgar. They are being beaten for EUR 15, for EUR 30, for EUR 40, for destruction and all of this. These two examples where they really make you think. Where's that aggression? Just a moment of criticism. In other words, it had to be nineteen years to remember again how the money changed to the Athens Stock Exchange. Nineteen years! One case was dropped after another. No one's ever been punished, unbelievable thing. We know they're gone. But we want to know, and we'll find out. Twelve years for Siemens. One date after another, people who come here with a great comfort. An appointment if I had with Mr Christoforikos or Mr Siekaczek - I honestly say this to you - I would not have had a look at this seat here. I couldn't do it. And other things I could say about justice, how the citations succeeded at one another. What does this have to do with the budget? It's for me, big. And because I don't like to parade, I want to tell you this. I have in front of me, paper and squid, the future. National ID system, e-government. What prevented you from doing it? I am telling you quite rightly that corruption and complexity. Through this, growth is a sign for those countries that have implemented it. And tangible example is a small country that did not exist twenty-three years ago. National system of electronic public procurement, one-stop shops. Six months, two hundred signatures. Electronic prescription of medicines. I have no hesitation to tell you that this was before us and is completed in us. I was one of those people who supported it against people who didn't want to be hurt, what? Electronic invoices, electronic smuggling systems. They are some of the things that are in the 'ura' to be done. Electronic payments, plastic money. Something's changing in this country. I have a list in front of me where all the ministries - when I say all, all, 15%, 20%, 25% - have entered the field of e-government. I tell you the last example, the dividend. No one needs to go either to his own stateman or to his parliamentarian or to his minister. There's an electronic portal and it says whether or not it is entitled to it. I don't do politics right now, I don't do anything. Can I say something? As with the social solidarity allowance, unrelated people may vote from Golden Dawn to whatever they want, have the right as citizens and are entitled to something. Also, all civil servants, over a million, are some money to be returned to them. It is a form of e-government. Really, what kept you from doing this for so many years? For these are decades of conquest in the countries of the European Union, which you say expresses you and want to belong. Today this government is doing it here. I'm accused of paralogy. But what am I supposed to do? I will say about Die Welt - I will say it and I will always say it and it is something that will never be answered - and for a post a few days after the election of this government. 'Die Welt', just so you know, expressed Shoeble. It says: "You will at last tax the 600 billion who are parked in tax havens" etc.Huh? He even criticised a government that had taken over a month. Good, in my opinion. It's good. He was talking about 600 billion. I don't like saying good. I think we should go ahead. But lately I have heard a review of the style of 'Strengthening aesthetic policy'. We want growth." Oh, no, no, Really? Me too! Did you forget that some people were going to the dumpsters? Did you forget what was going on in the arrays of the Church and the schools, which are slowly decreasing? We are obliged to do so because a part of the Greek citizens are still suffering. No one triumphed in this Chamber. I'm watching with sacred commitment. No one said it was all right. And we made mistakes, and they said too much. It is disturbing, however, because since the September 2015 elections it has spent two and a half months and I hear about chairs, chairs, chairs. What people have been ruling for forty years? It's not bad to have a sense of measure. And many have lost it. If you want, you have a regulation not to be the government for four years, to be two, to be one, to be three. Do it. I think you won't. Is anyone in two years and three months? I don't think so. I see nervousness lately, since the arguments of parentheses have not worked, Grexit has not worked, early elections have not taken place, the fires have not come out, the floods have not come out, the oil spill has not come out. An incredible, hysterical, blind opposition: "Go away, go, go." How do you guys get out of here? How? Tell me how! You know, there have been elections, and indeed the September elections, which have become invisible, have been very honest. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Do we or others manage? You. And because the third evaluation is almost over, no one triumphs. And because we do come out of the memorials, nobody triumphs again. We know, it's the road up, but we'll have a breath, a hope of freedom, or you can legislate on your own now, you won't have the surveillance you had when you borrowed. 2007 was the 10-year bond at 4.38%, not in 2009. It was 2007. I will admit that the surpluses - I am not saying for 2018 - are great. I believe there is a negotiating ground for smaller surpluses. I accept that. And I think we're gonna fight it with good intention. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In conclusion, I would like, Mr President, if you could give me a minute to speak with details. Leave my own estimates, it may be wrong, it may be favorable, it may be what we want. But there are some elements which cannot be disproved. I have here eighteen large companies, the first big companies and their 2016 balance sheets. For 2017, I don't have them, because it's not over. I could read their names, "VODAFONE", "WIND", "METRO" "AEBE", "GEN TERNA" etc. We see that they have more than 20% to 30% of jobs. I have the list here, and he's also undisputed. I won't read it to you. Some other labels that we have forgotten have returned to the market: "EXKIMO", "IZOLA", "ALFA", "KATSELIS", "FIX", are a tangible answer, because they say we are banning investment. And one more thing and I'm done, I'm not tired anymore. I have a list in front of me here with twelve five-star hotels. Two may not be five stars. And I explain with names. I hear the center of Athens burns, lawlessness, etc. No one comes to easily invest in the center of Athens, you know, so easily. He will search: "ELECTRA METROPOLIS", on Metropolitan Street. I have before me the "SETER" of Bulgarian. A megawattage is renovated by ‘FOUR SEASONS HOTELS AND RESPORT’. That reminds you of something. We're forgetting about it. It is modernised, the HILTON hotel, like the "METROPOLITAN" of Candri, Syngrou and the former "ATHENS LEDRA HOTEL", is changed almost completely, again in Syngrou. “Megali BRITAIN” bought 43 million from Alpha and renovates “KING GEORGE”, a historic hotel by Ms. Kalakani for those who remember, which had fallen into obscurity. The old offices of the Bank of Work are invested in the House and Kolokotronis Street. A luxurious hotel on Stadium Street. Omonoia Square, too...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u534	Mr. Comrade, we got the fourth one.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u535	I shall conclude, Mr President, with information rather than my own assessment. The 'MIRAGE', the old Chiroglou building on the market with the chain 'Grecotel', the 'ESPERIA PALACE' in Patisia, etc. I have finished saying one thing: the blind opposition, the hysterical one, has left you behind. I think I do not need Wall Street Journal or Deutsche Bank or Dombrovskis, who said yesterday that the debt will be discussed before the end of the programme. All this is positive. I think reality can only prove that something is changing in this country, some people here didn't get in here to get rich. They are determined to have a little bit of a change in this country at last. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u536	Ladies and gentlemen, we had said to continue until 22.30 p.m., but to close this cycle, which is another five colleagues, we will leave from 22.30 p.m., we will go much further. I am doing my best to keep time, but there is no agreement, ladies and gentlemen. What am I supposed to do? Mrs Maria Triantafellou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u537	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to begin a little bit by the last colleague - I do not remember him from Lefkada - who spoke of a non-serious design in the Aetolokarnania-Lefkada projects, since I have a very small part here, of course, in front of me of the professional group in the New Democracy, because we are amateurs. Last Friday, ladies and gentlemen, the Deputy Minister of Sports, Georgios Vasiliadis, opened the second closed basketball court in Agrinio, after how many years you've been saying? Twenty-one years later. This shows the professionalism of loved ones here in all these years. Of course, some works have left us in Haitolakarnania, not only incomplete, but also extremely confusing, as we say, the Aktio - Ambrosia. And said the Minister of SUMEDI, Christos Spirtzis, that the road axis Aktio - Ambros is also being auctioned in January and the Aktio - Lefkada also in the first quarter of 2018. Let's go check the budget. Almost everything has been heard and too many numbers. However, I think that all the areas relating to the budget have been caught by many colleagues. It is of great importance that we always see a budget when it is tabled, at what time and at what time, and I do not say anything original. We live in a period of political earthquakes, in an environment of exacerbation of the capitalist crisis, in an environment of unprecedented economic crisis and attack on our country and our people. This attack has specific features of labour and human rights have been scanned and they are being reinstated. We also live in a geopolitical environment extremely difficult and dangerous, in a daring international reality with imperialist controversies where mistakes are paid dearly and that is why they are not forgiven. So that is what has been said today, another budget for SYRIZA - ANEL - which has proved to be an infinitely better management of public finances, and that is what I think should be credited to it. It must also be credited to it that it has demonstrated greater technological capacity within this specific economic framework. For the third consecutive year there is overstatement of budgetary objectives, there is an attempt to solve problems in years, such as red loans, there are attempts to regulate business debts, etc. It is precisely at this point that there are controversies - it makes sense - and disputes about the mix of policy, on taxation policy, on public expenditure and on other matters. But we must be specific. Greece attempted an adaptation and a change of course and there were indeed reasons why they created the crisis. He tried in many ways to make this adjustment. There was the way of Samaras, i.e. the violent adaptation, the dissolution among the state structures, the "decide and order", the end of democracy, the redundancies, and we were driven into multiple social explosions, destabilization, in a Greece outside of every role in the world. Not only that, but the programmes still did not come out and the budgetary targets could still not be overcome. What did SYRIZA say about substance in September 2015 with the second elections? That no further adjustment can be made in this way. It really needs reforms, but the country cannot withstand more destabilisation. So, alongside respecting the programme for the resolution of the country's public finances, the government is trying and striving to build a social state that will relieve the citizens who have found themselves in the vulnerability of these changes. There is an attempt to relocate the health system and it is clear that to some extent hospitals are now more functional, even in a marginal way. They are staffed, outstanding debts are repaid, operational problems are restored, but beyond the hospitals there is also a clear household and social funds, the EEA, the Ministries, etc. And so in education, with very low, although a little higher than last year, a budget. These are important elements, but they are not enough. It is not enough to reconstitute any social state. There has been a lot of talk about the production model and what perceptions and with what economy the country will come out of the crisis and how it will draw up a way more independently. Here I say: we are very far from what we call productive reconstruction and we have to say it. In principle, the chronic forgery of the concept of productive reconstruction must be stopped immediately, let alone, when the direction of productive dismantling has taken place since 1990, with a specific role of the European Union, the intangible economy, the stock exchange, modernized post-regulatoryism and the 'glamouria'. Today there is an urgent need for productive reconstruction. We're slow on this. It needs speeding up and clearing targets. The country that does not produce, slows down, and we will be surfing, if that really does not solve it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall end with just two words and thank you in advance for the tolerance, Mr President. Where are the SYRIZA and the government in all that we described? They are on the real track of correlations, the management of problems, governance with a view to escape. The Greek Left over time has been outside the flow of events, fearing to assume its responsibilities or underestimate the possibilities of our own people. I will not speak of criminal decisions at all, especially after World War II. It's easy to put maximist demands, but it's hard to make decisions, and while the Left didn't make decisions for all these years, the gear recently and the troika and capitalism worked unstoppablely, sending out one and a half million people to unemployment and four hundred thousand to immigration. Many did not want SYRIZA in government and government, and I also speak of systolics. They said 'Better have our peace'. But we are well aware of two things now: firstly, the struggles, even when they are given, let alone when they are not given, fad out in the eyes of many if they are not accompanied by a strategic proposal for society and only the credits for consistency from the New Democracy and the PASOK remain. Secondly, self-reporting leads to dead ends, leads to frustration, leads to a loss of popular consciousness. The most important task today - and I am ending with this - is to build relationships of confidence. After all, the Left comes out of society. After all, the history of the Left surpasses SYRIZA, goes beyond Greece. In addition, the Left is doomed to originalize. And what is the originality we need today? Not to be afraid of the decisions, to move away from the centre-left, i.e. to move as far as possible from assimilation and integration, to take her as healthy as she is and to respond to what is left today. It is what New Democracy and PASOK can win, that is, neoliberalism and Central Left and, of course, fascism.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u538	My colleague, Mrs Panayota Brandza, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u539	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is customary in the debate on the state budget, but also in many draft laws, that Members' positions are entirely in line with the absurdity, in my opinion, of 'all is right' or 'all is wrong', depending on our party origin. Of course, today, colleagues from Officerial Representation have exaggerated themselves. However, those of us who have contact with society and are active in it know that the overwhelming majority of citizens believe that this practice also forms part of a old-fashioned and hypocritical attitude of the political staff of the country, adopted during the post-multiple process, and most of them contributed to getting where we arrived in 2009. I think it is high time we started talking in this Chamber, in fact, simply, frankly and above all, about speaking politically and not politically. We are talking today about the State budget of the year 2018. Is this a budget that ensures the ideal conditions for the citizens of the country? Oh, no. Is our country, the government, today 'free' to draw up such a budget? We all know it's not. Is there a reasonable man in this country, but who does not wear party blindfolds, who can charge the country's financial destruction to the current government? I'm sure it doesn't exist. I will not go into the logic of mentioning who, how, and how, they led the country to bankruptcy. They have been mentioned by many colleagues, but anyway this information is well known to Greek citizens. I prefer to talk about how these conditions will be created so that healthy productive forces can grow in the country. Of course, in order to solve the problem, we should first of all take stock of it and make it clear. I shall therefore mention a few pathogens in the functioning of the state, which, in my opinion, over time hampers the progress of this country and of citizens in progress and prosperity. You know, in the altar of so-called political costs, which are not political, but they are party and personal, especially the purple-born professionals of politics - most of them are not here today - and their imitators avoid not only greeding, but even thinking about the truth. Insurance: The system reached the threshold of the collapse, because each professional group with access was setting up its own fund and paid for itself at the expense of the remaining insured, but also of the next generations. The industry of the 40-year-old pensioners, the military industry of the allegedly disabled, such as blind taxi drivers, and of course the party of tax evasion, has been set up. The responsibilities of civil servants from the public administration, but also of the extracted citizen, are obviously enormous. We must all find the courage, as a society, to end these practices. This government has attempted and achieved a major reform in conditions and in time and budgetaryly very limited. I'm talking about insurance reform. And it seems that this is starting to work, and so today we can talk about the over-performance of the new body, the over-performance of the EFCA. Consequences from natural disasters: Loss of human life is the greatest loss for a society. The conditions for the recent tragic event in Mandra were created exactly with the same recipe. Politicians who potentially serve their constituents, services that do not work and citizens who seek the easy solution, with all the parties involved to be indifferent to both medium and long-term consequences. Writing: I imagine that I am not the only MEP who has dozens of issues in my office every day, concerning the inability of the citizen to deal with the "father" of bureaucracy. The consequences of this attack on the state, in my opinion, directly and catalyticly affect its social and economic function. Ladies and gentlemen - and I am addressing the opposition in particular - the most serious cause of the lack of investment in time has been bureaucracy, anxieties, corruption and an unstable tax environment. Much lower on the list of reasons is the level as such of the tax burden. Mr. Dritsa mentioned it with evidence. So we fight with all the previous ones. Rule of law deficit. The examples, unfortunately, are too much. We can talk for hours. I would point out, for example, that there are today farmers who enjoy subsidies up to six hundred times greater than their neighbour in the same area with the same cultivation or rearing. Here - the Minister for Rural Development is not here - we must dare. Nor can we have a rule of law when a professional class - and I am speaking about the judges - performs or should perform a function and is one of the three distinct powers of the state, acts in the light of its syndicate interests and party preferences. Evidently, unjust state conditions are being created and confidence in a leading state institution is being lost. All of this - we can speak for hours - shows that tragic mistakes have been made in the country. The experiments, the wrong assessments of the partners and the International Monetary Fund were followed in 2009, which unfortunately also proved to be the inability of the governments at the time. We arrived in 2015. The country was governed by SYRIZA and the ANELs. The sacrifices and labors of the Greek people continued. Today we are a few months away from August 2018 and it seems that the country is ready to leave the board. Of course, the problems are not over. There's still a lot. The major task, however, today is not to try to give up responsibility, because there are the facts, which are also known to us here in this Chamber, but also to the conscience of the citizens. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm going to need another minute, Mr. President. The really important thing, in my opinion, is to make the necessary excesses of small or large interests, of ideas, of strangles and of purpose, so that we can escape the vortex in which we have been in for many years and certainly long before the time of the memorandum. Ladies and gentlemen, the citizens, whom each of us represents, are waiting for more than a sterile confrontation, from lines, splendid expressions, opposition crowns and cries. Because we heard screams in this Chamber today. The whole society, at the forefront of political staff, has shown a proverbial immaturity, creating a self-supporting vicious cycle that keeps us trapped in a miserable reality. I am convinced that the real benefit to every citizen of this country will come only from the overall benefit. Of course, this debate shows that this is not a common place, precisely because we are not all the same. But we must continue. And we will continue with the healthy forces of the country, which are many and are everywhere. That government can. In a truly difficult environment and under suffocating conditions it has already demonstrated significant work with tangible results. We still have a lot to do and a lot to solve. I am therefore voting in favour of the 2018 budget and I urge you to do the same, in view of the good of our country alone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u540	Thank you, my colleague. Mr Anastassios Pakkassakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u541	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the budget you are bringing to Parliament is unfortunately based on the same mixture of failed economic policy that you have been following for three years. You're talking about growth while you're actually bringing measures of austerity. At a time when unemployment is rising, the market is squeezing under tax evasion measures. Immersely cured, you are in your state-of-the-art state, gigantic the party state, besieged entrepreneurship, as well as the private initiative as a whole. The current MRB survey shows that 65.8% of the respondents directly denounces the Government that the social dividend was the result of overtaxation by citizens. At the same time, you continue the "haemorrhage" of our best minds abroad. However, you are concerned only with the appointment of your 'children' to the public at places of view, administration, at any cost. Reading the budget, I'm looking to find out where Evros and Thrace are on his pages. You know, where the Prime Minister went for the regional conference in Komotini a month ago. That's where he made announcements and made promises without a reflection. What part of the budget does Thrace show how to move to a crossroads of production, trade and culture? Really, the vertical road axis of Evros is called a modern highway and you're gonna put a frontal toll on it? Is the ferry connection between Evros and the islands of Thrace and the northeastern Aegean sustainable if it takes place for only three months per year and one route per week? We want the markets of Thrace to be interconnected with the markets of the islands of the north-eastern Aegean and we want to promote our products, but also to accept the products of all the islands of the north-eastern Aegean. In your account where is Samothraki affected by extreme weather phenomena? The paradox is that in order to support the island of Niki you decided to increase VAT, as in the other Aegean islands. You have not even bothered to discuss the amendment that we have tabled together with colleagues from the Northern, Central and Southeast Aegean constituencies to extend the low VAT annually. Have you calculated the amounts owed to the farmers in your budget? When will they finally be paid for the earth forests, for the diesel oil, for the organic crops? Under these circumstances, are you talking about farm-food development? By not operating the sugar factory in Orestiad? By not dealing effectively with zoonoses? What budget code is the autonomy and autonomy of the Dumot Hospital, which all residents and players of central and northern Evros really want? On the other hand, we have the Minister of Education to set a target - he is not here, he has left - with his decisions the Democritus University of Thrace. And recently he proved, Mr. Caesa, his love for our Evros, mobilizing our teachers and teachers on an equal footing with Athens and Thessaloniki. Can you stand it? Please give them an answer now that you're going up these days. You leave the forest unprotected and all the wealth of Dadia, as well as the Evros River Delta, sacking them twenty-two workers who work in the management bodies, to hire your own people. Once again make the Armed Forces stand aside. The DEO only deals with how he will do business with Papadopoulos from Kilkis, blowing the deal with his friend Saudi Arabia. The result was to lose the Greek state of EUR 66 million and not only, that is to say, the first-sized scandal to develop a profitable agreement for the country, as authorised by the Greek Parliament's Committee on Military Programmes. This is demonstrated once again by the findings of the MRB survey, according to which 75.8% of the citizens state that the complaints by the New Democracy about the Tsipras - Kammenos scandal are based, and 55% in fact consider this to be a serious problem with the Government. It is noteworthy that exactly the same view of 36.8% of SYRIZA voters and 45.2% of the ANEL voters. Mr. Kammenos, when he was in the opposition, was a spokesman - and so, when he took over the leadership of the Ministry of National Defence - regarding the return of 50% of the wages of military officials and security bodies, in accordance with the decision of the Council of State. But now he's hidden. He didn't even go to the presidential palace the other day. Nor has he commented on how from the dividend, of the 1.4 billion euros that the government has shared, nothing has been given to the members of the Armed Forces and the Security Bodies, but rather they have further reduced their special wages. The HR's budget leaves many questions with regard to the situation in which the materials of the Armed Forces units have arrived. Have you ensured self-evident for the Armed Forces, i.e. spare parts, fuels, power-driven vehicles, warships and aircraft, so that everything we have is easy and usable? Where is the fatality of the millions promised by the exploitation of the real estate of the Armed Forces? Mr Kammenos's term of office at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will have the signature of a scandal by now and possibly others, an agreement with a strange mediator who sold weapons to ISIS. Ladies and gentlemen, we are concerned by the fact that we come from Evros, and we are identified with the formations of the soldiers in Evros and Thrace. We have no confidence in the present political leadership of the Ministry of National Defence to deal with the structure of the Armed Forces and especially the army in the region of Evros, Thrace and our islands. We have no confidence in him to deal with the equipment issues and manage himself with his company the military material that is necessary for the protection and security of the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u542	Mr Colleague, you're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u543	I'll be back in a minute, Mr. President. In conclusion, seeing this budget of yours, it is clear that you cannot lead the country to an exit from the crisis and from the memoranda. Greece needs political change, a responsible government that will give again the lost hope to Greek citizens. In short, there is a need for a basic government in the New Democracy. He needs Prime Minister Mitsotakis, who is telling the truth everywhere. And that's sure to happen. MRB's investigation confirms the political sovereignty of the New Democracy, as not only the overwhelming majority of society, but also half of your voters will not trust you again. Mr President, we are voting against the budget, but at the same time against the Ministry of National Defence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u544	Mr Georgios Papaphippipou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u545	Mr President, because my colleague has personally referred to me, I would like to speak for half a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u546	In love I mentioned, but give him the floor, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u547	At this hour?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u548	Right now he's been mentioned, what can we do?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u549	Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u550	I know you did it in love, Mr. Comrade. But the question was what I'm going to say to Evros and to whom. At the Sugar Factory, which was closed by the New Democracy, and we've been running it for three years now? That's what I'm gonna say. The Hebrews know, of course, that SYRIZA once again operated the Sugar Factory.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u551	How much does the Greek citizen pay?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u552	We're paying for it. We're keeping it. You booked the Sugar Factory in Orestiada and SYRIZA since 2015, 2016 and 2017 at the cost of operating it. And we operate it because we give farmers a job, because farmers produce beet and beet, and we have a move.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u553	The cost?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u554	Yes, Mr. Comrade. This was clarified for the Sugar Factory.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u555	Second matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u556	You're not paying anything. People pay.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u557	Please. I didn't interrupt you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u558	We are not giving the previous speaker any answers, Mr President. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u559	But he personally referred to me...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u560	The clarification was made for the Sugar Factory.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u561	The second issue is for the bodies of the Park of Dadia and the Delta of Evros, which the New Democracy interrupted the contract in 2013. We now bring them back, unify them and give them more powers. The third issue for the Army is not to raise it, because it is a sensitive issue. All the Jews are related to the Army and have direct experience and I think it is very dangerous that the colleague should be concerned with it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u562	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. That is a delicate matter and we should not go on. Mr. Papaphippippi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u563	Mr President, I would like to make a clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u564	Mr. Prison, with all due respect, please. Respect the President-in-Office as well - I honestly did not want to say that - which is three hours here. My shift's over. Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u565	I asked for the floor to clarify to the Greek people who are watching us.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u566	Mr. Papaphippippi, you can start.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u567	Ladies and gentlemen, before I enter my main speech, I would like to give an answer to what Mr Prussakis said about matters relating to Evros and Thrace. First of all, they do not concern the budget all the issues you have raised and secondly, too many answers were given at the development conference which took place on 13 and 14 November and you can be sure that the commitments that were made by the Prime Minister and the relevant ministers will be implemented. Ladies and gentlemen, the 2018 budget will be the last Memorandum of Understanding, since next August will successfully complete the current programme and our country will come out of the memoranda and strict surveillance and comitology. The exit will even be clear, without credit lines and new programmes. This claim is not a godly desire for me and our Government, but for certainty, accepted by the institutions and the valid international press, based on the following elements: Firstly, the implementation with absolute success of the budgets of the previous three years. In fact, the budgets for 2016 and 2017 have exceeded the targets and so it has been possible to grant social dividends of hundreds of euros to our millions of fellow citizens who have been hardest hit by the crisis. These dividends have been and will be particularly reassuring for those who have received them and will also receive stimulants for the market. This has led to economic reliance on the institutions and international markets. Secondly, the successful closure of the third evaluation, for which a technical agreement has already been reached and will take place next January, without any additional financial measures being taken. Thirdly, the successful exit to the markets twice this year. The yield of ten-year bonds was below 4.5% and reached pre-crisis levels. They are provided for in this budget and new outlets on the markets before the end of the programme, with the aim of creating a secure capital stock - 'cushion', which will secure the country's unsecured definitive exit to the markets after the expiry of the programme. Fourthly, the three continuous quarters of growth this year. We are sure that growth will continue in 2018 and that the 2.5% target will be achieved. In addition, the interest of foreign investors is very strong, due to the normalisation of our country's economy, internal policy and geopolitical stability in a region particularly upsetting. Fifthly, the increase in exports of goods and services by 7.6% in the first nine months of this year and the increase in industrial activity by 5.3% in the first seven months of this year. Sixth, the forthcoming further restructuring of the debt by taking long-term measures. The debate on these will begin after the third assessment has been completed. Exiting the country from the memoranda will have beneficial effects, in addition to recovering the national sovereignty which it entails in the following years, the growth rates provided for in the medium-term programme 2018-2021 and which can be achieved are sufficient to create new jobs and even full-time, increasing the remuneration of employees and creating a financial space to allow for measures to strengthen social protection, strengthen education and health and reduce the tax rates of natural persons and businesses. Of course, the Vice-Presidents of the Opposition and, in particular, the Officerial Representation again appear as masters of bad and dangerous men and are questioning the exit from the memoranda or linking it to new programmes. But did they really learn from their celebratory disapprovals in the past, from the forecasts, for example, for the 'cutter', not to complete the first and second evaluations, failure to fail the budgets of the previous years? The New Democracy colleagues should understand that the above greedy forecasts will be disproved in August 2018 once again and their appreciation of an early fall of government will be another summer night dream. As I said at the beginning of my speech, the 2018 budget is the last Memorandum of Understanding, but unfortunately it does not cease to be a Memorandum and as such obsoletely obliges us to reflect on it the burdensome commitments we have made towards lenders and which, under normal circumstances, would not exist because they do not express our party, the SYRIZA, that is to say our Government. The above commitments, which, unfortunately, are absolutely essential to our country's exit from the memoranda, which were imposed on the sole responsibility of the previous PASOK and ND governments, include, among other things, a surplus of 3.5% high tax on natural persons and businesses, less than the wish to finance sectors of the social state, etc. In this respect, of course, there is ruthless criticism from the opposition parties - which is not based on real elements - and which characterise the budget as anti-developmentist and social unfair. But the parties of the New Democracy and PASOK forget that when we took over our country's rule, they literally handed us over a well-determined economic, social and political country. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, please give me one to two more minutes. Besides, I'm one of the last speakers. As to what was the situation in our country in particular, it has been described in detail by fellow Members and ministers and it is not enough for me to repeat it. On the contrary, the situation in which our country is present today, after about three years of its governance by SYRIZA and ANEL, is considerably better and it has also been exposed by fellow Members and ministers, and due to a lack of time I will not repeat it. And it is certain that many of the negative elements of the 2018 budget will disappear in the coming years for the reasons I mentioned. In their hopeless attempts to degrade our budget and government, of course, we were described as charlatans, incompetents, arrogants, dangerous and robbers. Comparing, however, the situation of our country in January 2015 and today, the question arises: Who are these qualities and insulting adjectives characterised? SYRIZA and ANEL or the New Democracy and the Democratic Partnership? The Greek people, who have memory and crisis, gave the answer to the elections in January and September 2015, and they are sure to give the same answer to the elections that will take place in the autumn of 2019. It goes without saying that I am voting in favour of the budget.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u568	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights has forwarded to Parliament under Rule 86 of the Constitution and Law 3126/2003 on the criminal liability of the ministers, as is the case, on 13-12/2017, a criminal case for the former Minister for Finance, etc. Evangelos Venizelos and Ioannis Stournaras. Mrs Eleni Raptis has the floor, the last speaker for today.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u569	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, taking into account the budget, one seeks in particular the development and social justice which should be reflected in his financial figures, because that is what the country needs. So to get you out of the search, I tell you that there is nowhere in the text. Do not seek unfairly. Instead, if you look for taxes, you will find them in different forms, in every line of the new budget. This is a government obsession, despite the fact that 2017 revenues will be EUR 1.23 billion reduced in relation to the medium-term objective, because quite simply Greek citizens have no other tolerance to pay taxes. We, for example, reduced VAT on focus, excise on oil, insurance contributions, the solidarity levy. Can the government also tell us a tax it reduced in the two years it governs? Let one. Or is he going to tell us about the well-known social dividend that is the greatest political hypocrisy of a government that takes from a hundred citizens and returns one of them to him. Should society celebrate that? But in a few days the one who got the social dividend will pay oil with the excise duty on heights. He'll pay for traffic charges. He'll pay a dose of ENVY calculated with twice the value of his home. Does the government consider that there are now naive Greeks who think that the money he shares them has printed them on a machine? He thinks they don't know they're theirs? Let's go a little to growth. What big investment did it come to Greece? None. How many left? A lot. The Greek is still talking about it. "ELLENIC FRAMEWORK" is gone. Investors listen to Greece and spit their nuts. And the Prime Minister's trip to America brought investments for others! Absorption in entrepreneurship programmes: only 7%. And the government wonders about the Brain Drain that threatens our country, about the children who have left and what they are about to leave. Business: In two years, SYRIZA closed seventy thousand businesses. Do you know what that means? Revenue losses of at least EUR 350 million. From one employee to each firm, there would be seventy thousand fewer unemployed. But we did work for neighboring Bulgaria! All we lose from here, we give them there. I guess that's what the government means as an employment policy. Tax and insurance policy has also succeeded in closing their block at a hundred and twenty - thousand professionals. That's a huge success of the government! He's out of official service a hundred and twenty thousand professionals who are now working, but they don't say. Lost taxes, lost employment conditions, lost insurance contributions. Another EUR 300 million loss is lost. A total of EUR 650 million. How will this deficit be replaced? How many people will be invited to put their hands in the pocket to pay for the government's curiosity, without even taking into account the ever-increasing migration of businesses in Bulgaria? Unemployment: Here the government deserves a place in "Greece, you have talent"! It is the only government that is trying to convince us that it has reduced unemployment when it is impossible to happen in a recession environment. And here, however, there is the known trick: we are increasing part-time work of EUR 360 a month, reducing wages, making rotating recruitments. And that's how the miracle happened! We're making the numbers as they suit us to have something to say in public. Only in October, however, 98,420 jobs were lost. Who now makes the generation of 360 euros? The social policy of the budget is like what we say about the Thessaloniki metro. There isn't. 63% of those consumed by a household now have 24% VAT. The housewife, who goes to the supermarket in every 10 euros she spends, loses 1 euro. The CSCE is falling, one of the most important tools for supporting the weak has been mutilated. The heating allowance is cut by 50%. Of the EUR 210 million that we provided in 2014, only EUR 50 million will be provided in 2018. Such sensitivity! The Greeks no longer have the right to warm up. Whoever's cold has to pay! Medical expenses: it reduces by EUR 350 million, which means that we will now pay the drugs ourselves. Unemployment benefits for new entrants on the labour market? That's it. Confiscations to a million citizens and first home auctions are progressing properly. That's normal. I wonder what happened to the slogan "no house in the hands of a banker", called by SYRIZA until he became a government. While the big question in budgetary matters is to reduce state spending and operating costs, the government is doing exactly the opposite. Ladies and gentlemen, I have left the best for the end, the part in which the government has a unique ability to abolish all relief and tax relief and to impose taxes. Twice an increase in VAT rates, i.e. an average annual charge for each household over 1,500 euros, a reduction of reduced rates on the islands, those that SYRIZA promised would remain the same, an increase in legal persons - for the bad capital it is time to pay - a reduction in tax on duty twice, which increased the resources in each Greek family, an increase in rent tax, an increase in deductions and an increase in advance income tax, an increase in insurance contributions, an increase in HPAI, which would once abolish, a tax on coffee and wine, a fixed telephony tax, a tax on pay-TV, a tax on electronic cigarettes, a tax on accommodation on hotels. I'm stopping the list because of time. There's nothing and someone who didn't tax brutally and exterminatedly. And then you talk about surpluses, social dividends and exiting the crisis, having mortgaged the future of the country, having posted weight on every Greek citizen, having exterminated the middle class and all social resistance. The budget that the government has brought to Parliament doesn't change anything. It continues the deadlocks, tax bleeding and social injustice. You made a budget to convince us everything was fine. We had no doubt that in the difficult work of governance and on the road half of you were abandoned by your powers. Today, the MRB has confirmed that your voters are leaving you massively. So be careful what you will vote for, because everything shows that this budget is going to have to be implemented by us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u570	Thank you, my colleague. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-13-S1-commons.u571	With the consent of the House at 22.57' the meeting for the next Monday, December 18, 2017, at 11.00, on the subject of the House's work, is to continue the debate on the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Structuring the State Budget for the financial year 2018’.
