ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-20-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's 124-2017 delegation were confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau of the PZ's PR minutes, by M. Wednesday 12 April 2017]] I have the honour to inform the House that the Standing Committee on Production and Trade is tabling its report, in the draft law of the Ministry of Economy and Development: 'Procedural mechanism for regulating company debt'. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS Four topical questions will be discussed. We begin with our third question with the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the violation of equality in pan-Hellenic exams and the refusal to establish foreign-language departments at the National and Kapodistrian University of Athens. The current question will be answered by the Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Mr Gavroglou. Please, Mr Loverdo, you have the floor to develop the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-20-S1-commons.u2	First of all, many years, Mr Minister, Mr President, to you, to all Members and to the workers in this House. Jesus Christ Resurrection! I have been wanting to make an intervention in the field of education for some time now. I served for six months as Minister of Education of the last government before SYRIZA. I have a picture of the course of things then and I have a picture and the course of things in the field of education for SYRIZA - ANEL with three ministers in twenty-six, twenty-seven months, Mr President: Baltas, Friend, Gabroglou. There is an inconsistency in institutional terms in terms of political leadership and a stillness in terms of the substance of politics, plus errors, the many mistakes. I would like to point out two of these to the Chamber today and they are also the subject of my question: The first relates to the violation of the principle of equality in the case of children who give pan-Hellenic examinations and who, for reasons of force majeure - health, above all - cannot participate in the competitive process. That is what Mr Gavroglou troubled them for no reason. He forbade them to heal the problem that their lives created, with later participation in the exam after a few days, as it was true and went, after he was pressed and after the mobilizations took place in September. It gave them an opportunity in September, which is not a rational solution, which is an unjust solution too. Secondly, why is Minister Gavroglou not agreeing and interrupting the operation of a postgraduate course with tuition, which is addressed to foreign students and, if I am not mistaken - I expect him to tell me - is the Chinese Department of Studies that had been decided on bilateral contacts, which I too had done as the last Minister of Education before the Government of SYRIZA - ANEL, with the Chinese state? This must be the case with this postgraduate. Why did the Minister make this decision in connection with education rather than with ideas? I'll come back to my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-20-S1-commons.u3	Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-20-S1-commons.u4	Happy birthday, too. I am impressed by the way in which you speak and the ignorance of the problems you have posed despite the fact that you were a Minister of Education. The amendment on repetitive tests will be tabled tomorrow, which is an examination for patients. Any children who have experienced just before the June exams or during the June exams have not only had a health problem, but may also have had a shock psychologically from death, for example, very close to people. Is it possible for these children to collect their minds and to be examined in July? I want you to have an answer here. All the teachers, all the psychologists tell us they need these kids and a while to collect their minds. So politically correct, social law and pedagogical and psychological law are also right to consider these children in September. We will find out about the diseases these children have, under extremely strict conditions, because there is, unfortunately, also an exploitation of this measure by others who really do not care about us. We are interested in seeing how we solve the problem with the patients. Now you know something else that you may have forgotten this year's system is different from last year. Last year, it was July, because you had to get your immunity first and then give the full-fledged exams. This year's introductory examinations do not count to the degree of dismissal. So, we're doing the exams in school, we've got the examination, and then we're going to see which schools we're going to enter. These children will be examined in all courses because this is the right thing to do on the basis of parity. They cannot be examined in the two courses, for example, which have not been examined because something has happened in the middle of the examinations, because this is not the case and it is obviously not social. It's not fair, it violates principles of equality. Tomorrow, in any case, the amendment will be tabled and you will have the opportunity to see much more detail. But what makes me a terrible impression, Mr Loverdo, and obviously you have been misinformed - and it is not your responsibility, you have no reason to follow all this closely - is that there has been no proposal for a Postgraduate Department of Chinese Studies. Isn't that what you said? Because there can be no Postgraduate Department for Chinese Studies. There are sections of a cognitive object, which have undergraduate and postgraduate programs. So, there's not that as a fact. But there's something else I can do to make it easier for you. The University of Athens made a proposal for a curriculum for people coming out of the European Union and being English-speaking. This was a proposal from the School of Philosophy and after the Athens University Senate. First of all, a request comes to the Ministry which is not lawful, because the law which you had voted on does not mention anywhere for foreign-language study programmes. Undergraduate with tuition. She's three years old. Our programmes in this country are four years old. Thirdly, throughout Europe the vast majority of undergraduate courses are in the local language. Postgraduate is exactly the opposite. Here, then, we have a proposal that is not based on any law at all, it violates all the norms and regularities of the education of our own universities, it has 8 000 tuition fees, it is three years, it is not clear from which body those who come and are English-speaking will receive a degree. Instead of energising the possibilities available at the International University in Thessaloniki, which has a postgraduate in English and is able to cooperate undergraduate in English, we have one thing that, in any case, is not based on any law. There is no challenging on these issues, but they must be in accordance with rules and these things must be debated very wide, I insist, without undermining the regularity of undergraduate and postgraduate education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-20-S1-commons.u5	Mr. Loverdos, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-20-S1-commons.u6	Look, Minister, anyone who makes the sense and the process of criticising the opposition - what you said in the introductory words - must first have made clear what is himself as a government and what is what it is doing. You have six months of Minister, as I did at the Ministry, and what the Greek educational community has perceived from you is your statements that when no one is a university teacher or someone who is following policy carefully, he would have realised that you have changed the system of examinations for higher education institutions as well. You make so many statements that Greek society cannot consume. And that is what you have to show so far, because otherwise there are some amendments that you have brought to the House that your opposition supports them. You have no work at this time when you are Minister. Now let's go see what the answers you gave me. As far as the first issue I raised, the pan-Hellenic tests and the patients are concerned, you have found a situation. You overthrow it, canceling it with statements and causing mobilizations in the field of secondary education and movement and parents. This mobilisation and concern were caused in parallel with what you had created with the number of importers, ignoring my political choices and ignored them by all three ministers, educational institutions to determine the number of importers. I had done this with a ministerial decision. It was ready. It entered the customer logic and the leadership of the Ministry of Education on SYRIZA to determine number of importers. You increased him, reduced him, generally there was a turmoil a few weeks before the elections. And now you are ending up with an amendment, the content of which we have rather assumptions, when we know that participation in the current examination procedure will not be related, but will go later on, will be declining. It's your choice wrong. But we will see it when you bring the amendment to the House in the next few days. Let's go to the second topic. The second issue is much more serious than the Minister presents in his reply. Let me remind you, Mr President, of the following: Article 73 of Law No.4316/2014 on my own legislative initiative. With this law, what was predicted? Foreign-language departments in certain universities of the country, in particular at the University of Crete in Rethymnon, the Aegean in Rhodes, the Democritus University of Thrace and also in the Aegean in a Department of Maritime Studies, which are addressed to foreigners outside the European Union who have tuition fees, which are taught in English and for which were of great interest. How do I know these things? First of all, I took the legislative initiative at that time. I had had discussions with all the philosophical schools in the country because my basic idea was to start with the letters, the Greek letters. Universities entered dialogue, several months' dialogue. It was clear who were in the mood and who did not have the mood, who said "yes", but shortly afterward, like the NRP. And we legislated what we legislated. And an institution, the "Democritus", was ready. In fact, I had planned the presidential decree. And I delivered this presidential decree, as I had shaped it, to the government of SYRIZA. And all of a sudden, then, we learn that Mr Baltas abolishes the arrangement, abolishes this possibility, without explanation, for reasons of ideology and on the pretext that I had not prepared the Presidential Decree. The law was passed in December. The decrees want their time. I had it ready, though, and if SYRIZA hadn't taken the government, that would have become a reality and the "Democritus" would have taken this big initiative. They didn't leave it. And now we are learning from the Minister that this is not a post-graduate project in the NRP, it is an even better undergraduate programme - which, if he says, there is no law - and he may be right in that - a provision had to be brought on a much-discussed subject. But you see, Mr President, this is Greece and every next one is destroying the previous one's work. He doesn't look at making progress, step back where the other guys were and go any further. He goes back to the beginning, like he's a god, like he knows everything, while the others don't know it. And here it prohibits, even worse if it is undergraduate, because it does not exist - it says - a law and because it needs discussion and because the Minister does not discuss at the International University does dialogue. That's what they call themselves. And they say it on their own, Mr President, for ideological reasons. Yes, the International University exists and needs to be activated. Yes, however, there is a disposition for parts aimed at foreigners outside the European Union for reasons of equality. And in English, Mr President, to understand what I mean in terms of interest, for a postgraduate degree in the University of Crete, for twenty foreign posts outside the European Union, in 2014 they had ninety two applications.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-20-S1-commons.u7	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-20-S1-commons.u8	I'll be done. There's a great deal of interest. There is, however, also a government which makes the highest institutions responsible for not planning very progressive, very modern, educational forms of intervention, which also touch on the issues of the restrictive economic conditions of today, which also give solutions to this issue. And for ideological reasons, the government and its ministers are stopping them. And Mr. Baltas and Mr. Friend, and today Mr. Gavroglou. Things are going from bad to worse, Mr President. You see, however, even here, even on these issues that one would say are simply, one would say that they are outside the process and the memorials and restrictive policies, how the ideology of the people in question is injuring the educational process today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-20-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-20-S1-commons.u10	Look. I do not feel, obviously, obliged to make any calculations of governmental work and especially since I took up my position. I would remind you, however, that we have already passed a law on the National Library of Greece, on the General Archives of the State, on the Certificate of Language Learning, a detailed ministerial decision on the election of members and on the evolution of the National Library, which had been a status of incredible anarchy, etc. But let us come to the main problems you have, although most of your speech has been consumed in an anti-government rhetoric, which, as I said, I am not going to comment on. Do you insist that it would be right to take the tests in July, yes or no? Because that and legally is not right and has...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-20-S1-commons.u11	I didn't hear the month you said.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-20-S1-commons.u12	Sure. I say: Do you insist that the repetitive tests be carried out in July, with only the lessons that students have not given?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-20-S1-commons.u13	Please, Minister, because there is no way for the Rules of Procedure to answer Mr Lovers, do not ask him questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-20-S1-commons.u14	No question, then. You insist that it be given in July. You are a professor of Constitutional Law and you should know that this has very serious constitutional problems, because this year, as you know, it is a different system. It's not last year's and last year's system, where you first gave the introductory exams, then you were taking the vending room, etc. This year, for the first time, a class has entered this issue. First, you get the vending room and then you get the introductory exams. Second, as I told you before, any child gets sick, any child suffering a psychological shock, needs some time to find himself again. Don't underestimate these things for micro-party reasons. I would ask you in particular to consider this and ask your psychologists and teachers. Everyone will tell you that it takes some time for these children to be able to get into some kind of normality. As far as the invaders are concerned, I did not really understand the criticism you are making. We for the first time - for the first time! - regardless of what you have been through, what you said, and so on, we said to listen to the universities and see how this understanding will be expressed symbolically with the slightest reduction in the number of importers. This did not solve the problem, but it gave a signal that we are on a substantive basis of understanding. There have been reactions to this. In fact, I can say that the reactions were of a purely opposition nature. Because if you had told us to listen to universities and universities, how is it possible when we hear the universities react to it? What we have done, then, is the reduction not to take place all this year, but to break into two years. Half this year, half of it will be next year. I am pleased, first of all, to acknowledge that your initial question was wrong, because there is no postgraduate department of Chinese studies and all the relevant ones. We've all been misinformed at one time by our partners. But it's important. Mr. Loverdos, do you remember that Mr. Arvanitopoulos had closed down the sections of tourism in the country's heavy industry? Isn't that right? This is supposed to be the country's heavy industry. The Tourism Departments, therefore, have closed down and on your own initiative they have proposed to become a foreign-language part of tourism. I do not want to make any more analysis of what this whole policy means. So we reopened these departments both at TII Patras and in the Aegean and at the University of Piraeus. In terms of foreign language departments, so that there are no spoons around it, we think that in terms of postgraduate studies, where there may well be foreign language programmes. As far as undergraduate is concerned, there are very serious issues as to who comes in, how they get in, how they pay, if they pay, how many years they are, and what content this programme has. To come and propose some programmes, it will not solve the problem. That is why we are saying that we have an institution, which is the European University, to see the legislative initiatives for further cooperation with the International University and within this framework of procedures we have some quality programmes. Otherwise, because of the financial difficulties we are experiencing, there will be unfavourable movements at the expense of the quality of these programmes offered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-20-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, too. We continue with the fifth question under No. 709/10-4-2017 for the first cycle of MP II Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Sakis Vardalis to the Ministers for Labour, Social Security and Social Security and Social Development and Food, concerning the payment of tobacco producers and workers of the company "KAPNIKI MILIDIS S.A." in Kilkis. The Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity will answer Mrs Ahtsoglou. Mr. Bardalis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-20-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you are aware that the tobacco processing and marketing company "KAPNIKI MICHAIDIS S.A.", based in the Polykastro of Kilkis, has been unpaid for five months. He owes them more than EUR 1.2 million and the workers since 10 March have gone to a job. At the same time, the company itself declares that it is unable to repay tobacco growers for the 2016 harvest - a crop delivered to it - to which it owes more than EUR 7.6 million. Overall, that is, it owes EUR 9 million. We are talking about a company that is fourth in the world in tobacco processing and trading and operates with factories and subsidiaries in eight countries. In 2015 - for which we have evidence - this company was profitable with 105 million euros. There is also a second issue that we are raising through our question. There have been reports reporting suspicious transactions of this company with the "Annual Company of General Repository of Greece", PAEGAE, which is a 100% subsidiary of the National Bank. It is also stated that there is also a finding of the internal control of the National Bank, which has been handed over to the Public Prosecutor. I am referring to this because, as you know, the volumes of tobacco from the company 'KAPNIKI MICHIDE SA' are in PAE's warehouses. And those quantities are frozen there. The company, with the commitment of these volumes of tobacco, took titles and, with these titles, obtained loans of over 300 million from various banks between them and Deutsche Bank. Madam Minister, regardless of the conflicts between KAPNIKI MICHAIDIS S.A. and the banks, we ask in particular what measures will the government take so that workers and tobacco producers can be paid directly? What measures will you take to ensure the continuity of the work of the workers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-20-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, too. Mrs Ahtsoglou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-20-S1-commons.u18	Mr Vardalis, the Ministry of Labour is doing everything it can with the available means to ensure the implementation of labour legislation and the protection of workers, but also to prevent ergonomie phenomena. The case of "KAPNIKI MICHAELIDE S.A." is indeed a case that accentuates the Polykastro region. It has been found - as far as we know - one step before the closure with hundreds of workers and producers to fight for their future. This is a case not exclusively involving the Ministry of Labour. I must, however, inform you of what we have done so far, always to the extent of the responsibilities which we are responsible for and always when it comes to protecting the rights and interests of workers. The relevant Work Relations Department of Kilkis Labour Inspectorate was first audited at the premises of the company in June 2016. The audit found the non-payment of three hundred ten employees for three months, March, April and May. The total amount was up to 500,000 euros. The Labour Inspectorate has filed a complaint against the firm against the employer. The employer paid the sums due and then obtained an acquittal. The Labour Inspectorate holds a second audit in January 2017 and again finds that there are paid earnings that have not been paid to two hundred and twenty employees for the months November and December 2016 and the leave allowance for 2016. The total amount due is EUR 509,000. Again, the Labour Inspectorate has filed a complaint. The case has not yet been dealt with. A third audit is carried out by the Labour Inspectorate in March 2017. We see that three hundred workers have not been paid for January and February and that the licences and allowances for seasonal staff have not been paid for the same months. The total amount was EUR 300,000. Still filed a complaint from the Labour Inspectorate. The definition of a law is expected. With this I say nothing more or less than that the Labour Inspectorate and the Ministry of Labour have done what it can with its means. It is obvious that the company has a tactical unpaid business. The Labour Inspectorate and the Ministry exhaust all their means. In my dentistry, I will tell you about a newer development that we were only informed about yesterday.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-20-S1-commons.u19	Thank you. Mr. Vardalis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-20-S1-commons.u20	Madam Minister, I am not questioning what the Ministry has done - as you say, on the basis of the legislation - through the AIA, the checks and the complaints it has imposed, and I also question what you have said, that it is not only about your Ministry. But it's about your government as a whole. We ask specific questions. We did not ask whether any checks were carried out and what effect those checks were, whether they were fined, and whether they paid, when these checks were carried out, the company concerned. Employees have to take their money - the landlords - for the last five months. Tobacco producers have not been paid. That's what you're not saying. What will he say, 'we do everything we can to ensure rights'? Will the workers get their money? Will tobacco producers be paid? To this question workers and tobacco producers are also waiting for an answer. In our view, it is not an argument, 'we are doing everything we can, we are trying to stand alongside the workers and the farmers, tobacco producers'. The company in question in recent years - you mentioned two, only three of you - imposed a reduction in wages on workers, intensified labour relations, exploited the whole anti-graft arsenal of both the previous and the current government, which has kept it unfit and has recently left unpaid both the workers and the tobacco producers. So what more would the workers and the tobacco growers have to suffer if you did not guarantee, as you could, their rights? Secondly, these developments, in our view, have shown what they have shown? That this company was taking the smoke, storing it in this company, PAEGAE, and taking loans to make investments and increase its profits. As long as tobacco and agricultural production - as a whole - play a role in agricultural production - play a role in this kind of monopolies - that is, as long as the keys to the economy are in such hands, it turns out with what you say - 'what we can do' - that in practice you cannot do anything, you cannot pursue a philosophical policy. It's for us that's capitalism. Basically, it ensures, through too many ways, through too many roads, the profits of large businesses. Of course, you also have responsibility because you are basically supporting this European Union policy, which with a weapon to the common agricultural policy creates all these problems. And the problems are specifically: Tobacco farming in our country has shrinked from six hundred and seven hundred acres in less than a hundred acres. This policy has reduced aid to tobacco growers and by a hundred and eight thousand tonnes today only twenty-two thousand tonnes are produced. We in the JRC want to make this clear: we will stand alongside the fighting workers and tobacco producers to be paid immediately. We call on them, however, to resist the blackmails of the tobacco traders, who only see their profits, and that is what they are trying to ensure, but at the same time resist this anti-grassroots, anti-agricultural policy of the European Union and the government. In our opinion, the organisation of tobacco growing by socialization of the large capitalist farms on earth and the concentrated means of production is the only way out. The struggle to change the relationships, the conflict near the JRC, next to the JRC, can hamper the worst and open this path of perspective to the benefit of workers and farmers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-20-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, too. Madam Minister, you have the floor again for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-20-S1-commons.u22	Mr Bardalis, I often deal with this when he asks questions from the Communist Party on labour matters, which he rightly does and asks explanations and calls for the executive to describe the actions it takes to protect the interests of workers. However, it must be clear: when we talk about private business and private economy, the interventions that the Ministry of Labour can make go far enough to the extent of control over compliance with labour law. These are the data in the existing constitutional framework that we operate and exist politically, socially and executively. I say this because many times by the representatives of your party I am invited to answer why the entrants have not been paid. I cannot, as a representative of the state, pay the prizes in a private business. I can get rid of the tools that the law and the Constitution give me - these laws and this constitution we have - which is the Constitution of a civil liberal state, with these margins. From these margins, therefore, I do not think that of what I gave you, it seems that the state has been indifferent to what is happening with the labour relations of the company "KAPNIKI MICHAELIS S.A.". The newest we know is that, in fact, precisely because there was this problem in the relationship between the subsidiary of the National Bank, PAEGAE, and the company "KAPNIKI MICHAIDIS S.A.", since October the subsidiary of the National Bank has frozen exports. According to the company - I do not take part in any way, I simply quote what it says - has led to a failure to pay employees who, as you say, have been working on 10 March. Last week the Labour Inspectorate in Kilkis contacted the firm, asking to know why the wages paid have not yet been paid. The company told us that they have concluded private agreements with the workers, granting the company's claim to third parties, purchasers of its products, which will immediately export as soon as the retention of the goods currently in storage has been lifted. These private agreements in principle recognise that there is a debt, that is to say, that the company actually owes this kind of money to every worker - it is about five thousand euros to every worker - says that it grants them the demand for the money that the foreign company will pay when it buys tobacco products, which will take place in the next month, says that by 31 May this will have been paid and says that in any case, until the workers receive the remuneration they receive, the wage workers are not amortised. That's something the workers have signed up to. We contacted the union and confirmed it to us. In other words, the association told us that this has indeed been the case with the operation. For our part, we are not going to welcome the solutions of this type, because for us, wage payments must always be made in cash and at the time when it is due. Since the workers have signed these agreements, all we have to do is monitor whether the remuneration will be paid by 31 May, as the company has committed itself. And we will once again use all the means we have to make sure that the company's obligations are complied with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-20-S1-commons.u23	The Secretary-General of the Government, Mr Kalogerou, tells us that for a number of reasons some questions will not be debated, two questions will be asked because of the imprisonment of the honourable Member and eight questions. In particular, will the fourth question not be discussed under number 696/4-2017, first question by the Member Kilkis of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Christou Hadjisavvas to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: 'Is the national economy ready for a possible collapse of the Eurozone?' Also, the first question under number 707/10-4-2017 will not be discussed in the context of the second question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Alexandros Triantafyllidis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "First Kordas Camp: Augmentation of the area in an ultra-local park". The fourth question under number 705/6-4-2017 is the second question of the Athens Parliamentary of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Helen Zaroulias to the Minister of Finance, concerning the appointment of a judiciary to the administration of the Overseas Retirement, is not discussed due to an impediment by the Minister. Cause, workload. The second question under number 700/6-4-2017 of the New Democracy MP, Andreas Katsaniotis, concerning the delay in the procedures for the implementation of Subsection 6.1: ‘Installation of Young Farmers’, is not discussed as a result of the impediment of the Minister for Rural Development and Food Mr Apostle. Cause of unsuccessful obligations. The sixth question, under number 676/31-3-2017, on the retention of part of the OPEKEPE grants due to the inability to pay a contribution to the General Organisation for Improvements (GOEB), will not be discussed as a result of the impediment of the Minister for Rural Development and Food Mr Apostle. Cause of unsuccessful obligations. The question by No 446/18-10-2016 by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Kingdom Kegeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the serious problems faced by farmers, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister for Rural Development and Food Mr. Apostle. Cause of unsuccessful obligations. The ninth under number 402/27-1-2017 a topical question for the second cycle of MP in Thessaloniki, Mr.Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister for Health, concerning the reduction of the cost of diagnostic tests for breast cancer, will not be discussed due to a blockade by the Deputy Minister, Mr. Polakis. Cause, workload. The seventh question under number 648/24-32017 of the Evian MP of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr.Nikolaos Michou to the Minister of Health, concerning the deliberate obstruction of the fulfillment of a covenant that provides for the establishment of an oncological clinic in Chalkida, will not be discussed due to the obstruction of the Deputy Minister Mr. Polakis. Cause, workload. Athanasios Davakis, Member of the Commission. - (EL) Mr. Athanasios Davakis, President of the Council. Mr. Athanasios Davakis, Member of the Commission. Cause of unsuccessful obligations. The sixth question under number 701/6-4-2017, first cycle of Piraeus, Union of Centres Mr.Theodoras Megalonou to the Minister of Health, concerning the closure of the local hospitals "House - Haravais" from the 2nd Health Area of Attica, will not be discussed due to the obstruction of Minister Xanthos. Cause of unsuccessful obligations. I have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights has forwarded to Parliament in accordance with Article 86 of the Constitution and Article 3126/2003 "Prime Responsibility of Ministers", as in force, on 20-4-2017: a) Criminal case law relating to the former Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs Evripidis Stylianides and b) Criminal case law concerning the former Minister of Foreign Affairs, George Papandreou and the former State Secretary of Foreign Affairs, Andreas Loverdos. Also, the MP, George Amyras, is requesting permission from a short-day absence abroad from 20-4-2017 to 24-4-2017. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-20-S1-commons.u24	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Also, MP Olga Kefalayannis seeks permission from a short-day absence abroad from 20-4-2017 until 25-4-2017. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-20-S1-commons.u25	The House therefore approved the requested permission. The fifth will now be discussed under number 710/10-4-2017, a topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the problems of the employees of the Supermarket "AFOI KARYPIDIS S.A.". Mr. Delia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-20-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister of Labour, the JRC is once again bringing the workers' problem to the "Karypoidis" supermarkets today. Thousands of four hundred workers, behind whom there is usually a family, have been unpaid for more than a year, mainly looking at the unemployment spectrum in front of them. As if this were not enough, these unpaid workers and their families are also called upon by your own government at the same time as their repayment to pay the bills for electricity, water, telephone and all the taxes, of course, you put the carpets you are voting on all the time. Of course, the same workers all along do not stay with their hands crossed. They don't put it down. Assembled in their pan-Hellenic business clubs strive in a variety of ways, mobilize, strike, make a job for themselves to be paid and not to lose their jobs with their rights. In their struggle they also have the practical solidarity of the rest of the working class, as recently manifested, for example, in Easter days. The demands of the workers' struggle in Karupidis are being brought to the House today, Minister. On the contrary, they have an ergonomie which, by smuggling the relevant e.g. 178/2002, which I note has forced power, methodically and designed to transfer the local stores of the company to other companies in the industry, by pressing and extorting workers with the non-payment of their wages, with changes in contracts, with proposals for re-entry and re-entry, with all the anti-government arsenal that exists. An employer, who has not only in recent months found no serious obstacle to your government in its anti-corruption plans, but you are making it easier to get time through endless dialogues on supposedly survival plans for the company, which you were also calling on workers to consent to. Where did we get here? The worker's problem has reached the unprecedented. What do you intend to do for them? What measures will you take to pay their wages and insurance contributions as a whole? What measures will you take, Minister, to continue their work relationship in the companies that are adhering to the Operation "African Karyapidis"? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-20-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, too. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-20-S1-commons.u28	Mr. Delis, the Ministry of Labour has been involved at the first moment in the case of the "Karapidis" and its employees, always with a view to protecting the interests of the workers. All employees received the employment allowance of EUR 1,000 from the OAS. Through the tripartite meetings and the initiatives taken by the Ministry, we prevented the real projects of the company, which, in cooperation with a candidate investor, sought by private agreements to reduce the wages due to the employees. Throughout this story - I mentioned this also a question that one of your colleagues asked me a few months ago - the company's side was completely unreliable. It came at the tripartite meetings with proposals which could not under any circumstances be accepted either by the workers or by the Ministry of Labour because they were based entirely on the illegal requirement of not paying the wages paid or paying the wages paid or dismissing a large number of workers. The Ministry and the services have used their resources again to prevent the illegality, in which the company is constantly subduing to date, trying to find a solution to the later situation. Up to now at least seventy-four complaints have been filed, both by the Labour Inspectorate and by the workers and fines have been imposed for any illegality established. In particular, from the Labour Inspectorate's survey, the company "Karapidis" owes remuneration from February 2016 to December 2016. It owes late payments to workers who have exercised the right to an allowance. It owes late payments to workers who did not exercise the right to adjudicate but provided their work and the employer did not accept it. It also owes remuneration and leave benefits. In the previous period and until December 2016, the company refused to provide information to our services on the accrued earnings and remuneration of overtime. He refused to produce a repayment plan when requested. He refused to provide evidence that our services could see whether it was really a case of transferring a company to see whether it could be implemented in order to protect workers' rights in the event of transferring the company. The fine of EUR 50,000 was imposed on the company for that infringement, i.e. not to produce the necessary data. These are, in the first place, an answer to the fact that under no circumstances do we facilitate the operation in the unacceptable practices it follows and continues to adopt in the last few years.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-20-S1-commons.u29	Mr. Delis has the floor for three minutes again.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-20-S1-commons.u30	Madam Minister, I think that the answers you gave were a little moving - much the same logic as the answers you gave three months ago - when a timely question on the same subject had been debated. You defended the government's policy, you spoke of the EUR 1 000 aid that the workers won with their struggles, you spoke a lot about the tripartite meetings, and we all saw where these tripartite meetings led, but you said that you prevented the company's plans, which, anyway, wanted to implement, which you accused of being unreliable. The reality denies what you say, Minister, because the business plans are gradually being implemented in a different way. Capitalist companies always find the way within this legislative framework, which, in the previous question, you referred about the constitutional liberal urban framework, shattered, escaped and finally implemented their plans. What business is doing and what this company is doing, you know that very well, in order to circumvent the a.r.178, which, as I said, has forced force. It is well described in a document by the Labour Inspectorate of Central Macedonia, a document from the 31st of January, which you obviously have in your hands. There it is described very thoroughly and with great energies all the activities of such enterprises and the way they finally get away. Evidently, by exploiting this anti-American framework, they find the potential to pass it, at the expense of all the workers. You also admit, you also said about the illegality that this company allegedly suffers, you talked about some fines, but we do not know how much of them have been paid by this company, which, while the businessman leaves unpaid workers, finds money to develop other business activities in the field, for example football. The question is what you should do and what you intend to do to stop this company's practice. The workers are at great agony and have no intention, of course, to suffer the flag of the race. And instead of giving them advice or pushing them into a way of resorting to the judiciary, which, apart from a long time, is also costly for themselves, I think you should push the company itself, force it not only to pay the workers, but also to keep these people working relationships with the same working rights and the same contracts they have had in the past. That is what you must do, that is what we invite you to do, and that is why the workers will fight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-20-S1-commons.u31	The Minister has the floor for three minutes again.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-20-S1-commons.u32	A few more data. It has been denounced by the employees and their representatives that this company, in cooperation with another company - candidate investor, held meetings in Thessaloniki in order to have a successor situation, essentially a transfer, hidden transfer, business and to take over the older workers at lower cost. We requested the necessary information to see if this transfer of an undertaking exists and, as I said, the company refused to produce it. The deliberate concealment of these elements and actions by the company, which was obviously intended to prevent the investigation of the agency in relation to the control of compliance with the provisions of labour law, is an unlawful act, and therefore our service has submitted press reports to the Prosecutor of Thessaloniki since 27 December 2016. The case is found in the public prosecutors, who are conducting an urgent inquiry into the case. In relation to insurance contributions, the company owes the FBI about EUR 35 million. These are her debts. The sanctions provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of In addition, the company had settled its debts, but lost this right in January 2016, because it did not pay the instalments and did not pay the current contributions, and the competent ECA department of EKA has made orders to confiscate credit institutions and to confiscations of real estate, assets, both of the company and of its legally responsible parties in order to satisfy its claims. With regard to the action taken by the Labour Inspectorate, precisely to prevent what you say and we see that the company is now trying to do side-by-side, i.e. to transfer to new forms, with worse working conditions, worse wages for workers, the Labour Inspectorate is constantly carrying out checks in central Macedonia and, as I see it, by the Labour Inspectorate in Pieria, Magnesia, etc. So far it appears that the majority of the stores of the company ‘Karapidis’ remain closed in central Macedonia, except for individual cases which are controlled. We have two cases, both in Thessaloniki, one in the east and one in Sindo. Both cases are under way. I mean, there's a check. In other cases where the investigation was carried out it appeared that the shops were closed. So what I'm saying is that at the moment the Labour Inspectorate is on constant vigilance and investigates every complaint that is being made to it in order not to have this hidden transfer of the company. I would also like to present to the Minutes all the actions that the Labour Inspectorate has taken in connection with controls in this operation over the last few years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-20-S1-commons.u33	It will now be discussed the third with No 702-6-4-2017 topical question by MP Aetolokarnania of the Democratic Complex of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Konstantopoulos to the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, on the connection between Agrinio and Ionian road and the reconstruction of the old national road of Agrinio. The Minister for Infrastructure and Transport will answer Mr. Spirtzis. Mr. Constantopoulos, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-20-S1-commons.u34	Mr President, Minister, the Ionian Road is a project that will change the course of history of western Greece by putting it on a large development orbit, by changing the road, tourist, development and cultural map of western Greece. A vertical axis that connects Olympia with the Egnatia Road and forms part of the puzzle of a modern, European road network. Ionian Road is, I would say, part of the major projects that have been designed for twenty years and are now delivered to the Greek people, I believe in a few months as a whole. Minister, the Ionian Road will upgrade the quality of life of its citizens, offering quality and safety to citizens' movements, giving an answer to the blood tax paid by hundreds of families. And here is the oxymoor: no one has dealt with, no one has, with the result that Agrini, the largest urban centre in western Greece, the largest city, the largest municipality, with a population of more than 100 thousand, today being the poor relative, being out of nymph and outside the Ionian Road. It has therefore remained out of association because of either the duplication of planning or the lack of interest in policies, self-government and service actors. Today, the citizens of Agrinio, in order for them to have access, will have to move to either the west twenty-two kilometers to the hub of Kuvaras, the hub of Amphichia, or to the east twenty-five kilometers to the hub of Kefalovrysos. So the indifference of those responsible for her greatness, and the wilderness cut off! However, the vertical connection between Agrinio and the Ionian Road is a constant request from local actors and local society. I would remind you that the Regional Department of TEI had issued a finding in 2009 on the need for the Agrinio-Ionia Road connector, but no one was moved until today. You have been Vice-President and President of the TEI and you are well aware of the matter. Finally, Minister, the old national road network, in addition to the badges, has been charged to make this modern highway on the Ionian road, is now a danger to the citizens and the people of transit. It is imperative, therefore, that the complete reconstruction of the dangerous part from Kefalovryos to Kavaras, to also constitute a modern, parallel highway and, of course, serve the former Capodistrian municipalities. Let me note that this road network is 70% of the city's urban plan. So I would like you to answer whether there is a specific design for the construction of the vertical route of Agrinio - Ioniaou, if this provision exists, whether the project can be financed directly, and what the timescale it intends to do, and what the Ministry intends to do in terms of the old national road between the Kouvaras node and the Kefalovrysos node, in order to deal with today's problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-20-S1-commons.u35	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-20-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, Mr Constantopoulos, Mr Dimitris, I would like on the occasion of the timely question, because it is a real problem for the region, to allow me to give you some advice as a friend, and of course to go ahead with a complaint and self-criticism as a government for what we have done. Let's start with advice. In the communication staff of the media that supports the New Democracy and the PASOK that you belong, they usually say every day in the morning: "Don't let the truth spoil a nice and well-established story" and you with the timely question you ask about it. You spoil it, because if you read the press releases - four has come out in the last few days by the infrastructure manager of the Democratic Integration - you will first read that the roads that are currently inaugurated, designed and published by international competitions as co-financed projects since the beginning of 2001. And for historical reasons it tells us that the PASOK which prepared and agreed the steps taken, negotiated with the services of the European Commission and resolved the problems of saving the concession projects and, of course, improved the studies, resulting in a significant reduction in the cost of the projects, while meeting all the reasonable demands of local communities. So Mr. Maniotis, who knows these things and well, obviously has anticipated the demand of the local society for the Agrinio. Mr. Loverdus told us that if the SYRIZA government had not been elected, these works would have been completed faster. There are many other statements in the same logic, so I would like to make the complaint and encourage you and the citizens, not to believe your eyes, not to think of the truth, not to measure the time you travelled here safely, not to care about the fact that we didn't have a dead man and we should all report with me, Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras and Government SYRIZA - ANEL for the completion of the works and the opening fiasco. I think we should all move on to this complaint together. I also think that we should continue with the complaints, because there has been a booth on the second day of Easter in your region, which has never happened before, because the work has been completed in accordance with the timetable, because the compensation of the delays has been completed together with the projects, and what will be done with the thousands of workers - Mrs Ahsioglou here, who will be apologising for the thousands of unemployed with the completion of the projects - because these governments, the latter here of SYRIZA - ANEL, have been specifically invoiced and discounts for the frequent users because free passages have been negotiated for the permanent residents, because they have negotiated free passages for the AME, because they have attempted to put electronic tolls, as the parliamentary responsible says, to name the tunnels with the names of Nikos Temponeras, Andreas Papandreos. It's a sacrilege. If we were to call it "Kostas Simitis", it would be fine. We'd honor him. We also need to continue the complaints, because we proceeded to this project fiasco, when you and the New Democracy had done everything. They're lying. There were huge tails, infinite works, inauguration, figuration. Mr. Hatzidakis says it too. I would therefore ask you, in these complaints, to add the complaint, which Mr Maniotis makes in two communications, that we are not doing any new work. So don't ask us about the Ionian Road - Agrinio project, why have you arranged it all when you did the studies, the design of the works, the tolls, the negotiations. Don't ask us about that. You will expect, when you go back to government with New Democracy and then Samaras to support Kyriakos Mitsotakis, to proceed to all these works and to change the name of the "Andreas Papandreou" tunnel, which is, in fact, a great blow to your space. Dream! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-20-S1-commons.u37	Please, Mr. Constantopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-20-S1-commons.u38	I am surprised by the dear Minister, the friend of Christos, because when he was planning this project, he was in PASOK and he was part of PASOK and was president of the TEI. I am also surprised, dear Christo, that you come to a new Member and ask for responsibilities. If you want to call for responsibilities, ask the then MPs and your then friends, who not only left Agrinio with the connecting street, but lost the university and other elements that have to do with Agrinio. Ask there, my dear Minister, your responsibilities and not the imminent one.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-20-S1-commons.u39	To the Maniatte.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-20-S1-commons.u40	But, Minister, I want to say two things. The first is that the state has continued rather than discontinuity. The fact that a major task has been handed over today, and we will shortly be talking about the completion of the Ionian Road, is a fact and that honors you. No one said anything different and I never personally was miserable. But, Minister, I have not seen the connection between Agrinio and you, and this is where Agrinio is currently staying outside the possibility of citizens entering the Ionian road. In other words, they will see the Ionian Road from a distance or because a MP looked at his chair or because some other MPs weren't interested or why some of the local government did not. But, Minister, the connection between Agrinio and Ionian Road is imperative and everyone knows that. With this connection, this link, Agrinio is connected to the national road, Ionian Road, i.e., and by extension to Platygiali and BioPA, provided by the general design of Agrinio, of course with the large port of Platygialio and also the E65, Platygiali - Ionios - Agrinio - Karpenisi - Lamia. If you do not, Minister, on this matter immediately, I will bring it to the House every week. And I am personally interested in not what you have with colleagues, but the implementation of the project and the stopping of the blood tax on the citizens of Agrinio and the surrounding areas. That's why I'm asking for the best and shortest straightest union between Agrinio and Ionian Road. The node of Angelokastro is considered necessary. This road will be almost in contact with the military airport, which is equal to both Aktios and Araxos. But that's why no one did. Just "vote for me to nominate you". That doesn't personally touch me. That is why I personally propose the many issues and I do not ‘screw the ears’. I am sorry to say, therefore, that a good infrastructure today is not used for military purposes nor has it been given to the citizens, because the battle hijacked. And there is no provision for you either, Minister, and your government to be exploited. I put this to the debate so that the funds allocated to other budgets are not lost and that they have been deprived of other generations in order for there to be a military airport and the infrastructure of the country to continue, not to put down and find ways to make use of them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-20-S1-commons.u41	Finish, Mr. Constantopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-20-S1-commons.u42	With these thoughts, I would like to complete my position and ask you to see, not with special attention, but with an optimal effort, the Ionian Road and Agrinio connectors. Mr. Minister, I have twice brought the theme of the bridge "Harilaos Trikoupis", the great work that Charilaos Trikoupis envisioned, who were together at PASOK and gave it for use to Greek citizens. The price of 13.30 euros to spend more than 13.30 euros to go home or to your prefecture or your area is above Greek citizen's payroll. What we have said next time is that after the 10-year duration of the bridge, we must consult the "GEVYRA S.A." consortium to find a solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-20-S1-commons.u43	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-20-S1-commons.u44	This will be a resolution of all Members crossing the bridge, to go to Thesprotia, Ioannina, Artas, Prevezis, Iotolokarnania, Lefkadas to you, to go directly to the consultation of the “GE” consortium to reduce the cost of transit and tolls.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-20-S1-commons.u45	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-20-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Constantopoulos, friend Dimitris, the answer was not to you but to the MP of the Democratic Partnership, covered by the announcements of your party's infrastructure manager.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-20-S1-commons.u47	Minister, I am a member of the Democratic Alliance. I don't represent myself.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-20-S1-commons.u48	There are three other members of SYRIZA except me. The two were in PASOK, and those when he had other features, not what he's got today...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-20-S1-commons.u49	The large projects in PASOK were designed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-20-S1-commons.u50	...when they weren't ashamed of Andreas Papandreou. Then we were together. And I honestly wonder, because I know you personally, how you guys are still there. I would like to tell you that until the vulnerability of counterpopulation and the media that support them is stopped, the answers to the House will be such. You're right about what you said about the connection of the Agrinio. We're taking action. But the answers to the Members of the Democratic Union and the New Democracy will be such. I would ask you, in order to remember the PASOK party - Democratic Incorporation, which has a conference to change its name, to give Mr Manatis, and if you can also in the New Democracy, what was going on with the projects. I have it here in two corners - not for you personally but for your party - one for you and one for New Democracy, let them remember what happened two years ago.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-20-S1-commons.u51	Citizens know that. They know the big projects.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-20-S1-commons.u52	I'm the one who lets you take them and give them, if you like, to publicity. We'll give it to you, too. From that point on, these are problems that concern the local society and are being launched by the "sucky" government SYRIZA - ANEL, which makes figurines and does not do new works. So do not seek to find here with questions as a member of the PASOK Party - Democratic Incorporation, what will happen with what you have studied, you have predicted, you have negotiated, according to the recent statements made by your party's infrastructure manager.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-20-S1-commons.u53	Minister, for the Ionian Road I want a commitment!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-20-S1-commons.u54	...and for tolls and projects, for the connections of Agrinio, for the connection of Preveza, for the ferry road, for the continuation of the Ionian Road to Albania and for all the rest that Mr Maniotis says you have arranged since 2001, not now. You were done with the plays. We delayed, from what he says, a year and a half. Obviously, we were looking to find ribbons that were in a lack of market, so that we could go to the Prime Minister and I could open up and do the fiasco we made. All citizens see that, don't they?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-20-S1-commons.u55	Minister, Ionian Road timetable, that's what matters to me, and that's what the citizens of Agrinio and Ioannina are interested in! I want an answer here!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-20-S1-commons.u56	Don't forget, Mr. Constantopoulos!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-20-S1-commons.u57	Minister, I insist...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-20-S1-commons.u58	Please, Mr Constantopoulos, that is not permitted by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-20-S1-commons.u59	The maps are here, but I'm not gonna give them any.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-20-S1-commons.u60	Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-20-S1-commons.u61	Please, tritology is not allowed. Mr Constantopoulos, you can discuss the individual issues personally with the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-20-S1-commons.u62	Minister, the timetable for the completion of the reconstruction of the old national road and the connection between Agrinio and the Ionian road is what we are asking for!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-20-S1-commons.u63	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the topical and urgent questions has been closed. At this point I have the honour of announcing to the House the issue of Friday 21st April 2017. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 716/11-4-2017 topical question by MP Larisi of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Anna Vageias to the Minister of Culture and Sports, about the First Ancient Theatre of Larissa and the strategy of the Ministry of Culture and Sport. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question by Mr Dimitrios Kyriazides to the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport on the implementation of the project on the construction of the Drama Road Axis - Amphipolis. 3. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy about the need to drastically reduce excessive charges for consumers by PPC. 4. The question by No. 722/11-4-2017 of the Greek Communist Party MP, Christos Katsotis, to the Minister for Migration Policy, concerning the problems of contract workers in asylum services, hotspots, refugee hospitality centres and the other services of the Ministry of Migration Policy. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by number 717/11-4-2017 of the Member of the Radical Left Coalition, Mr Panagiotis (Panou) Skouriakou to the Minister of Culture and Sport, concerning the residual function of municipal regional theatres. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Achaias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Theodoros Papatheodorou to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport about delays in the implementation of the project to extend the suburban between Patras and western Achaia. 3. The Question No 727/11-4-2017 by Independent MEP Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs about the announcement by ELME Thessaloniki of the broadcast of the “Survivor” television game. 4. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on the need for a direct decision for farmers under retirement. 5. The Question No 666/28-3-2017 by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance, on a matter that is necessary and necessary in order to remain in the special regime of about four hundred thousand farmers. 6. The Question No 649/27-3-2017 by Independent MEP 2 of Athens Efstathios Panagoulis to the Minister of the Interior, on provocative use of chemicals in protesters despite the recent explicit ban on the government and the commitment of the Minister. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The question asked by MP II of the People's Association - Golden Dawn by Helen Zarulia to the Minister of the Interior about the terrorist attack with kalashnikov against men of MS. 8. The 367/20-1-2017 topical question by Evia MP of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Nicholas Michou to the Minister of the Interior, on the unacceptable displacement of thirty-six thousand seven hundred sixty-sixteen Greek children from day-care stations. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by No 2795/23-1-2017 of the Deputy Drama of New Democracy Mr Dimitrios Kyriazides to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on the subject, embezzlement of the financial management of the Drama Treasury. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question and application under number 3354/274/10/10/2017 of the Greek Parliamentary II Athens, Mr. Spyridonos - Adonidos Georgiadis, to the Minister of Health, on the arrest of a foreign dentist with the category of money laundering in the structure of Amygdaleza. 3. The question asked by MP Attica of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Friday Christophilopoulos to the Minister of Health about the indifference of the Ministry of Health for the Zakynthos Hospital. 4. Question No 2718/19-1-2017 by Independent MEP Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister for Immigration Policy, on the need to take legislative measures to speed up proceedings before the courts in the cases of persons whose application for international protection - asylum has been rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-20-S1-commons.u64	With the consent of the House at 10.45 minutes the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday, April 21st, 2017 at 10 a.m., on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
