ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights: "European mandate for investigation into criminal matters - Harmonisation of legislation with Directive 2014/41/EU and other provisions". The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 12 September 2017 to discuss the draft law at one to two meetings, one on the principle, articles and amendments. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u2	The House therefore agreed. The SYRIZA rapporteur, Mr George Papaaliou, has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, cross-border crime is constantly evolving. Criminal groups are organising their activities - drug trafficking, human trafficking, arms trafficking, dirty money laundering - in a very professional way, about like multinational companies. New technologies favour these activities, and even 'invent' - within introductory forms - new illegal activities. Crime is international. Legal systems have a border. The twenty-eight Member States of the European Union have different legal systems. However, the challenge is how the states will cooperate, because transnational cooperation is a prerequisite for tackling cross-border crime. In this case, the biggest problems arise from the procedures and not from the substance. In this context, this draft law is also in progress. Refers to the European mandate of investigation in criminal matters, issued, transmitted and executed on the basis of the principle of mutual recognition and respect for individual rights as guaranteed by Union and internal law. The European investigative mandate shall be a judicial decision or a decision issuing or validating a judicial authority of a Member State of the European Union, a issuing State, with a view to carrying out specific investigational measures in another Member State, an executing State, for the purpose of obtaining evidence. It shall be adopted in the context of criminal proceedings, which shall initiate judicial or administrative proceedings, where it relates to acts punishable under the law of the issuing State as infringements of the rules of law and where the judgment may lead to a trial before a court having jurisdiction in criminal matters, but also to proceedings relating to acts and infringements of legal persons. The European research mandate is based on the fact that criminal activities, particularly as organised crime, are rising beyond the borders of a country and have been internationalised. In particular, in the European area where the movement of people and capital is free, the fight against cross-border organised crime requires closer cooperation between the competent authorities of the European States, in particular through the acceptance of a simplified and accelerated procedure for the circulation of evidence. The way from the mechanism of judicial assistance to the principle of mutual recognition underlines the transition from a phase with strong national competence to a phase dominated by mutual obligation and speed. I'll make a brief historical regression. Initially in 1959, a European Convention on Jurisdiction was drawn up, under which the Contracting Parties undertook to provide the widest possible legal assistance in each procedure in respect of infringements in need of repression, including the acquisition of evidence and means. With this mechanism the executive was overpowered in the process of judicial assistance, since criminal law was considered to be closely linked to the hard core of the statehood and judicial cooperation was subject to short-term governmental decisions. This led to a long and complicated process, without resulting in evidence being obtained. Subsequent to the Convention implementing the Schengen Agreement, which was incorporated into the legal institutional framework of the European Union, the relevant procedure has been simplified and transnational cooperation in criminal matters has started to be legalised by the establishment of direct communication between the competent judicial authorities. The difficulty in carrying out judicial cooperation and as a result of obtaining evidence, through judicial assistance, has led to a solution to the principle of mutual recognition. Under the rules of mutual recognition, the judicial authority of a Member State ‘determines’ the judicial authority of another Member State to recognise and enforce its decision within a specified period, subject to certain limited grounds of refusal. The requesting Party shall be the issuing State and the request by the executing State. Mutual recognition is based on the principles of sincere cooperation and mutual trust between Member States. It requires that the executing states accept foreign decisions, as if they were their own, without checking their legality before they were executed. With the Maastricht Treaty in 1993 and the Amsterdam Treaty in 1999, cooperation in justice and home affairs was included as the third pillar of the Treaty. Based on the conclusions of the Tampere European Council in 1999, including the mutual recognition of judgments as a cornerstone of judicial cooperation, projects and programmes were adopted in support of the principle of mutual recognition. Amongst these, the 2003 Framework Decision on the establishment of a European documentary order in order to improve judicial cooperation in the collection of existing receipts already included in documents, objects or data and to simplify and speed up the collection and transmission of evidence. On this basis, it was made clear that the existing framework for collecting evidence was fragmented, complicated and therefore ineffective. It concerned - and only existing evidence covering a limited range of criminal cases, and mainly the freezing of assets or evidence. Thus, the 2009 Stockholm Programme and the European Council indicated and asked the committee to draw up a proposal for a directive establishing a coherent system for obtaining evidence with a cross-border dimension replacing all existing legal instruments in this area and covering all types of evidence. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law seeks to harmonise Greek legislation and hence to incorporate the provisions of Directive 2014/41/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of Ministers on the European Research Order in criminal matters into this. This directive establishes a comprehensive, flexible and effective system for obtaining, transmitting and collecting evidence in cases with a cross-border dimension, i.e. from one European state to another, based on the principle of mutual recognition of judgments and orders, and replaces all existing legislation in the field of judicial assistance. However, it should be pointed out that the transition from judicial assistance to mutual recognition through the European research mandate does not result in complete automation in the implementation of decisions, since the directive - and therefore in the bill - contains general and specific grounds for refusing to implement the European research mandate. These reasons are set out in Article 13. In particular, refusal to execute shall take place if there are immunity, privilege or exception of jurisdiction or execution, rules restricting criminal liability in the context of freedom of the press and expression, potential harm to the essential interests of national security, administrative case as a measure of non-response to the Greek territory, the denial of criminal investigation for the same criminal offence in another Member State, territoriality and double criminality, contrary to the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, checks on the dual criminality. However, paragraph 3 of that Article stipulates that where the European research mandate relates to tax, customs or banking crimes, recognition or enforcement cannot be refused by the executing authority on the grounds that domestic law does not provide for a similar tax or duty or arrangement as that of the issuing State in respect of tax, customs and banking matters. This facilitates the investigation and prosecution of criminal offences with a cross-border dimension and ensures the establishment of a uniform and horizontal scope of a system for collecting evidence. The European research mandate has a horizontal scope and therefore applies to all research measures aimed at collecting evidence. At the same time, the European research mandate attempts to combine legal certainty and the protection of rights of defence with the effectiveness of the process. For example, the protection of rights of defence shall be reflected in the protection of personal data guaranteed by Law 2472/97, in the obligation to maintain confidentiality of the European investigation order, in the temporary transfer of detainees or witness examination by videoconferencing or by other means of audiovisual transmission to the issuing State which is not performed when the person, witness or expert does not consent or where the transfer extends the detention time or where there are grounds for non-recognition or non-implementation of the European investigation order by the executing authority. In conclusion, it is necessary to incorporate the proposed regulations of the directive into national legislation, because the main objective is to regulate the issues relating to the European research mandate and to end the scattered evidence collection system previously in force. For this reason, this draft law will be a legal instrument for broadly implementing the principle of mutual recognition in criminal matters, combining legal certainty and protection of rights of defence with the effectiveness of the process, while achieving the ultimate objective of the European Union which is to develop an area of freedom, security and justice in which there will be mutual trust and mutual support between national states, to combat crime and to enforce legality. The provision for information requested under the European research mandate for the keeping or management of bank or financial accounts or banking and financial transactions in the executing State is important as cross-border financial crimes have received a wide range of dimensions and have acquired, with the help of technology, characteristics that make it difficult to distinguish them. The challenge, ladies and gentlemen, for democratic legal systems, is to find a balance so that, on the one hand, it is sufficient to combat cross-border crime and, on the other, to protect individual rights. The balance is often disturbed, especially when security occurs at a primary value. Nevertheless, in Europe balance is possible, since there are legal tools that incorporate the need for more efficiency, but at the same time protect, ensure and strengthen citizens' rights. The applicable law which incorporates Directive 2014/41, when, by the vote of Parliament, it becomes the law of the State, is called upon to prove it in practice. I shall now come to the three amendments that have been incorporated into this bill. The first was incorporated into Article 36 and concerns evaluation and participation in the selection process of heads. This amendment aims at the functional interconnection of evaluation and selection systems. The evaluation system established by L.4369/2016 is thus established and at the same time rationalises the process of disseminating and disseminating the evaluation reports in the chain of administrative procedure. Most importantly, however, the self-evident obligation for each head of staff to assess, an evaluation which, unlike in the past, does not mean any available or redundancies, not even for us. At the same time, however, it does not mean abstention from the legal duties of the heads of state, the evaluators and the desecration of the functioning of the public structures. On the contrary, evaluation means dignity, transparency, social accountability. It even means improving the staff member, with targeted actions to train and upgrade his skills and skills. It means, therefore, improving overall the administrative work provided for the benefit of the citizens. This philosophy runs all the provisions of the evaluation system established by the recent law on administrative reform. It should be noted here that this regulation concerns the evaluation of the year 2016. The exclusion of the assessors from the selection process is linked to the unequivocal fulfilment of the obligation to assess the staff. It does not mean an adverse rating in their own assessment. So, at a time with limited resources and incentives, civil servants, who give daily, self-determination and a high sense of responsibility, are shielded. And I say they are shielded, because by acting on the evaluation, the stereotype of civil servants who fear it and raise a wall of protection against social automation is abolished. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The amendments, which were incorporated into this draft law in Articles 37, 38 and 39, concern the amendment of the legislation on forest maps. Citizens are given the opportunity to send to forestry map support points supporting documents relating to the payment of the objection to the bank and the legitimate interest, which validate the objection after the electronic submission, up to 10 days after the date of the suspension of the forest maps, since the current arrangement did not alter the citizens' ability to raise objections until the last day, because the bank could not immediately inform the CRP system of the fact that the payment has been made. Furthermore, citizens are allowed to submit additional elements of the objection, technical reports, forestry photo-interpretations, etc., and for service certificates, since many technical advisers or services have not been able to draw up the technical report or to issue a certificate by the last day, with the result that it is not a substance or an objection. In addition, the draft law incorporates the concept of settlements and extends the suspension of forest maps until 25 September in order to allow for a time-limit for the activation and exploitation of these provisions by citizens. This is how citizens are served and the work of forest maps is legally shielded. Finally, as regards Articles 40 and 41, the request for a reform of Article 758 of the Code of Civil Procedure and following the adoption of a final judgment of the European Court of Human Rights, which considers that a judicial decision accepting or rejecting the original application has been adopted in breach of the lawfulness of the procedure or provision of substantive law.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u4	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u5	Yes, Mr. President. Here - and because things have been said and written on the Internet or have been said by some - I would like to stress that decisions by the EDPS have been taken at the expense of our country. We belong to the international community, we invoke the international law and decisions of the international courts which have also condemned Turkey. There must therefore always be compliance on our behalf within the framework of the Greek legal order, the rule of law and the international treaties, including the 1923 Lausanne Treaty, which in Thrace recognises a Muslim and not a Turkish minority.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u6	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u7	Yes, Mr. President. There is no national Turkish minority in Thrace. The Treaty of Lausanne and its anticipation of a Muslim and not a Turkish minority apply and must also be accepted by Turkey. The new regulation enables the applicants to appeal again to the courts because, until now, Article 758 has provided for a review of the cases only if new circumstances arise or changes are made in the circumstances in which the decisions in question were adopted. The Greek courts - I stress this - will rethink the cases and will judge dominately without being bound by third parties, only by the legislation in force, the international treaties, including the Treaty of Lausanne and international law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u8	Thank you. The rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Constantine Güulekas, has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u9	Ladies and gentlemen, we are today discussing the integration of this European directive into our national legislation. However, we are also discussing another bill which has come through amendments. Because here, basically, we have two bills that are incorporated into one. It is the bill on the European research mandate, Mr Minister, and there are all the other provisions that have been discussed in the form of amendments, and some of them have now been incorporated into this draft law, which we will talk about next. So we are going too fast to talk about this integration. What's actually going on here? Instead of making changes to the existing provisions in order to incorporate this Community directive, we are establishing a framework of rules, all from the outset, which regulates how States across the European Union can cooperate in order to obtain evidence in criminal matters. This European research mandate therefore has a horizontal scope and applies to all research measures aimed at collecting evidence. We must say that the aim of the directive is to mutual recognition of decisions and orders issued to obtain evidence in the context of judicial cooperation, in criminal matters, as we have said, throughout the European Union. And it is true that the system of collecting evidence in transnational criminal matters at European level was really difficult. This Directive simplifys the system and makes it easier to provide research opportunities for the purpose of detecting criminal offences concerning more than one State. The European investigative order shall be a judicial decision, issued or validated by the judicial authority of a Member State, for the purpose of carrying out one or more specific investigation measures in another Member State, for the purpose of obtaining evidence, for the transfer of detainees or for the examination of witnesses based in another Member State. However, there is always a risk that a possible misuse or abuse of the possibilities offered by the directive might lead to even circumvention of fundamental rights, particularly the defending rights of accused or accused persons. Let's go a little bit on the bill structure. The first chapter, consisting of five Articles, from 1 to 5, refers to the European research mandate and sets out its type. In particular, it provides that the European mandate is a judicial decision or a decision which issues or validates a judicial authority of a Member State of the European Union for the purpose of carrying out one or more investigation measures in another Member State. The scope of the European research mandate shall be defined and the concepts of the conditions set out in the individual arrangements shall be given: the issuing State, the executing State, the issuing authority, the executing authority. The kinds of procedures, in which European research orders are issued, are therefore being put in place. In other words, the criminal procedure, as well as the procedures initiated by the administrative authorities. The second chapter entitled 'Publication and transmission of a European research mandate', consisting of six articles from 6 to 10, refers to the procedure for issuing and transmitting the European research mandate. The competent authority issuing the European Investigation Order in Greece, namely the competent judge, the court, the investigating authority and specifying the individual conditions and conditions for its adoption, shall be designated as appropriate. Indicate the details of the European research mandate, describe the procedure for the transmission of the European research mandate by the Greek issuing authority to the competent authority of the executing State directly or through the contact points of the European Judicial Network. It is stated that if direct communication between the Greek issuing authority and the executing authority is fruitless, the central agency of the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights may be sought. In the third chapter, which consists of thirteen articles, from 11 to 23, issues are dealt with on the procedures and safeguards for the implementation of the European research mandate by Greece. The competent authority responsible for the recognition and enforcement of the European mandate shall be designated by the local Public Prosecutor, as specified in particular. The authorities of the issuing State, present in the implementation of the European research mandate in Greece, are bound by Greek legislation. The executing authority may communicate directly with the issuing authority by any appropriate means to the effective implementation of the European research mandate. The executing authority shall be given the opportunity to select another research measure than referred to in the European research mandate, as specified in particular. And this is something important: the reasons for not recognising or discharging the European research mandate by the executing authority are set out and the reasons for postponing the recognition of that execution are set out. The deadlines for the adoption of the relevant decision and the implementation of the research measure shall also be laid down. Specific issues relating to the transmission of the necessary evidence in the context of the implementation of the European research mandate shall be addressed. It is provided for in the procedure for the exercise of legal aid and appeals in respect of the investigation measures for which the European research mandate is issued. The obligation of the competent enforcement authority to inform the issuing authority within the given time limit of individual issues is laid down. The criminal and civil responsibility of the officials of the issuing State during the period they act in Greece, in accordance with the provisions of the Criminal Code and the corresponding Introductory Law of the Civil Code, are established. Of course, this is where the Greek State is responsible for damage caused by officials in the territory of another Member State when they act in the performance of their duties and, on the other hand, for the full payment of compensation to beneficiaries in the other Member State. The obligation to respect the confidentiality of the European research mandate is also established for the issuing and enforcement authority with regard to the facts and content thereof. Sanctions shall be imposed in the event of breach of this obligation by the banks. This is where the penalties for offenders specialise. It's something special. The protection of personal data in the context of the implementation of the proposed arrangements shall be ensured. There are issues relating to the costs arising from the implementation of the European research mandate and they are borne by the Greek competent authority, which may consult on the possibilities and the way in which the expenditure is allocated or the modification of the European research mandate if an extremely large amount of expenditure arises. Moving on to the fourth chapter entitled 'Special provisions', which consists of seven articles, we must say that this includes provisions relating to specific research measures, and that they deal with specific issues, in addition to the general issues that we have said have been dealt with in the previous chapters. In other words, the procedure for the temporary transfer of detainees to the issuing State and the executing State is laid down in order to carry out an investigation. The expenditure to be incurred in the course of the procedure shall be governed in accordance with the provisions set out in those Articles. It is intended to examine a witness or expert and by telephone conference when it is not possible to show himself to the Greek issuing authority of a European research mandate. The procedure is laid down to clarify the keeping or management of a bank or other financial account on the part of persons involved in the criminal proceedings of natural or legal persons and to provide for the adoption of a European investigation order in the context of the criminal proceedings to obtain information on bank or other financial transactions. Research measures shall also be carried out following the adoption of the relevant European mandate in order to obtain evidence in real time, continuously and for a certain period, as specifically provided for. Finally, there is provision for the issuing of a European enquiry order requesting assistance from the executing State in the context of the criminal proceedings, for a secret investigation and specifying the relevant procedure for carrying out this secret investigation. The fifth chapter concerns a very sensitive subject, the removal of telecommunications confidentiality. It consists of two articles, 32 and 33. The competent authority shall be given the opportunity to issue a European investigation order for the lifting of the confidentiality of telecommunications in the executing State, which shall also provide the technical assistance required and specify the procedure in question. In particular, the procedure to mobilise the withdrawal of confidentiality to a Member State in whose territory the removal is situated and from which technical assistance is not required shall be regulated. The sixth chapter entitled ‘Primary measures’ provides for the possibility of adopting a European research mandate for temporary measures in order to prevent destruction, conversion, removal, transfer, disposal of evidence. It's a procedure similar to the insurance measures. In the seventh chapter, entitled ‘Final provisions’, transitional arrangements are included. Of course, as I said at the outset, there are two bills: the bill concerning the incorporation of the directive itself and the others. In conclusion, when it comes to incorporating the European directive, we must say that this and optimises and substantially speeds up the process of judicial assistance, creating more direct cooperation procedures between the Member States of the Union. Especially at the stage of the procedure, i.e. in carrying out a pre-interrogation, it may become a very useful tool, as the evidence of the issuing State is thus enriched, with the help of the executing State. We have to say that there are some issues raised about the rights of those who are subject to criminal proceedings and especially to the European investigation order, given the secrecy of the procedure. I mentioned it before. There are doubts here as to the respect for the rights of the defence if there is in the end an abuse by the authors of this mandate. Let us also say that one point worth noting is that the implementation of the European research mandate extends to procedures initiated by administrative authorities and lead to administrative decisions. It is of course a useful tool, as we have said, for the most reasoned application of an administrative infringement, but it is removed from the purpose of the directive, which is essentially relating to criminal matters. This is something parallel with regard to procedures involving administrative authorities. Let us say that it takes a great deal of attention to fully describing the criminal act that is the subject of the investigation. In detail, a reference must be made to the means of proof for such an act, which the issuing State takes into account and to provide more complete information to the authorities of the executing State which implements the order. A number of questions are raised in relation to paragraph 3 of Article 13 of that law, namely Article 11 of the Directive. We have also discussed this in committee, Minister. It concerns tax, customs or banking crimes, where a similar regulation as the issuing State is not provided for in Greek law. So one could say that we can lead to circumvention by banning double stalking. All these are issues which need to be taken into account when implementing the new legal framework established and in the field of collecting evidence on criminal matters. I now come to the other bill, as I described it. I ask, ladies and gentlemen. This government has counted about two thirds of its life. It has been close to the completion of three years since it took over, with the mandate of the Greek people, the rule of the country. We have witnessed too many times here this strange balance between the government partners. We have witnessed situations which are incomprehensible. They're also humiliating, let me say. In other words, the two government partners agree on the substance of the line taken by the government, but on a case-by-case basis, one is coming and it states that it will not vote for a provision. I am speaking here of Rule 40 and 41, Minister, which is the amendment of Article 758 of the Code of Civil Procedure. I am surprised to see that the Independent Greeks say they will not vote for it again. I mean, Ala Cart. The government's majority is backward and is based on the responsibility of the rest of the political forces who, depending on what they judge, have to decide. And that often stipulates how the government will proceed from now on. We totally disagree with this policy, we disagree with this practice and as a party of Officerial Vice-President, Minister, who you represent the government at the moment, and we tell you that from now on that point, whenever the government partners do not agree on a matter, the New Democracy is going to take a negative position, not to support anything - regardless of whether or not it agrees or disagrees - and to vote against this procedure. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You cannot come along, ladies and gentlemen, by stepping on two boats and saying: here, you know, we agree, there we disagree, but otherwise the majority of Parliament is undisturbed and we are moving forward! This is unacceptable, we denounce and say that, starting from today, from now on, in everything, in every amendment, in every bill, which there will be disagreement between the government partners, we will have a negative attitude, for that reason we will vote against any regulation. And finally, let me tell you people like this, find them between you two before you come to the Hall. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] You cannot bring bills here and follow two different lines, but otherwise the government goes undisturbed. Select what course this is. And, in this case, what are you doing here? Ladies and gentlemen - why do I have to say this too, because I am addressing, above all, the members of the government majority and colleagues in SYRIZA - do you know what this article says about substance? Do you know each other? I have already heard the majority rapporteur and said a few things. It is an issue that has national implications, and it is an issue that we cannot go through this way, but in essence we will be placed in the debate and we will also talk at the end. But as far as the principle of a government majority is concerned, we as a New Democracy state that we will not legalise, even with the responsible attitude of voting for certain regulations, which we believe are moving in the right direction, this pluralism, this disagreement, this imbalance within the government.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u10	Mr. Comrade, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u11	I'll be done in a minute. We will also talk about the other amendments. I would just like to turn to another amendment. There are many - and that is why I have spoken about another bill - and many have even been incorporated into this bill. I would like to refer to the amendment on this famous extension of the Law of Friday. Listen, here, let's get something straight. The Minister and the committee have said so, and we have said so, and the rapporteur of other bills on these matters has said so. Of course, there were similar arrangements in the past, except that these were very specific, very limited and definitively excluded any dangerous felonies, for which some had been convicted. What are you, basically, doing? You have come from the outset by voting for the Act of Friday, with which we disagreed, widened this framework and continued this framework until today. We not only disagree and vote against, but we have stigmatized this practice. We have no more time to deal with all the amendments. In the course of the debate, we shall make a reference to the rest. As far as the directive is concerned, Minister, we are in agreement with the incorporation of the directive, but of course, as far as the articles of the new draft law, which are irrelevant to the directive, I told you about some, we have taken a position and we will see the rest along the way.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u12	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform the honourable Members who are following that they have secondary reports. They have 15-minute protology and seven and a half minutes for dentistry. Please, let's keep the time. Here, Mr. Papatheodorou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, for those who have been concerned or doubted about the use made by the Government of incorporating the compared directive on the European research mandate, I think that from last week in the committee, but also today, there can be no doubt about the intentions and targets. This draft law does not concern its actual content. It is not about incorporating the European directive, that is, it is about the other provisions in this draft law. That is what matters, because I believe that this directive has been specifically used in order to get all the other 'other provisions' in place. We therefore believe that the government has found another legal deed to go through other provisions, targeted politically, without any prior substantial dialogue and in one of them without having secured the necessary parliamentary majority. So, along with the incorporation for the European research mandate, the Government is attempting to cover the failed project for the evaluation of structures and staff in the public sector, attempting to close without debate and, in fact, of the last hour, while the Minister had announced it for the last 15 days, the question of extending the application of the law on the decongestion of prisons, going through arrangements that close the eye to specific groups of the electorate, highlighting its alleged legal sensitivity and passing through to two - three arrangements in the field of justice and health. To make it clear, therefore, because we have discussed enough in the committee on the content of this directive, with which most of us agree. We are clarifying things and saying that we remain firm in our view of voting in principle and on all the articles relating to the European research mandate directive. We believe that this incorporation speeds up the legal assistance procedures between Greece and the other countries of the European Union in criminal investigations under way. The creation of a single, comprehensive legal instrument, covering the members of the entire process of gathering evidence and limiting the reasons for rejecting the requests, since the receiving authority can only refuse to implement the mandate in specific cases. The European research mandate therefore ensures the protection of fundamental rights of defence, since the issuing authorities should assess the proportionality of the research measure requested. The Member States, on the other hand, must ensure legal means equivalent to those available in a similar domestic case and ensure that the persons concerned by the mandate receive adequate information on these possibilities. As you have seen, I have only had three minutes to place on the main principles but also on the main articles of this directive. I told you, there's a deal. Let's go now and see what we can't just vote for, but we disagree. We have complete disagreement with a number of amendments that the government is trying to pass. The 'other provisions' and the amendments are those which characterise the draft law. That's why this particular draft law came. I am starting with the amendment by the Ministries of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, which marks the Government's complete failure to implement a credible system of assessment in the public sector. Look, I understand that. It is obvious that the question of evaluation for SYRIZA is a matter of your own identity. You're methodical, you're ideological, you're timeless opponents of evaluation. You have fought indiscriminately any evaluation system that has been proposed to date. You boycotted, politically and trade unionly, not just the implementation of evaluation, but even the dialogue on any evaluation system. You are the party of which yesterday's executives and current ministers blamed their partners for participating in evaluation procedures in education, public administration and elsewhere. And you are undertaking today to wrestle your failure at the expense of the Memorandum responsibilities, because someone seems to insist too much on this type of evaluation being carried forward today. You will allow me to say that you are completely unreliable to this new role of defender of evaluation of structures and staff in public administration. The new attempt is falsifying the acceptance of failure and an unpunished 'prisoning', an authoritarianism that we do not understand why there is. I'll explain what I mean. In fact, however, this is the last act of a failed project and the refusal of a large number of civil servants to obey the orders of government officials. Why is that? Wasn't the same employees you've been telling so long that it's a bad thing to assess? How will they suddenly be persuaded to participate in evaluation programmes? You went a little further. In an unethical way you have motivated the transaction of the Heads of Government's services with the Government to promote them, and it is clear that each evaluation system is an inalienable right for each official to claim a position of responsibility according to his or her qualifications. There is therefore no need for a transaction as you do with this amendment. Your policy aims to force the leaders to carry out an assessment, in our view, of a wrong government policy. And where does this policy lead? This policy has so far led to overthrows of the draft of the register of executives. Do you remember the debate that had taken place here two years ago after the pressure of the party mechanisms for full partyisation of public administration, while remaining party general and special secretaries, their alternates, establishing and filling tens of new positions of administrative and thematic secretaries with their deputys from the party tube without any one of them being evaluated, without any one of them coming from the famous register of officials of the law of 2016? Where did this policy lead to today? It led to armies of public contractors, who have today launched the number of contractors in seventy-five thousand, without organograms, without a ratio between capacity and positions, without having evaluated the suitability of these employees or the usefulness of these posts. It has also led to full incapacity for implementation and implementation of the provisions of the multi-advertised Law 4410/2016 on the mobility of civil servants, due to the failure to complete the electronic organiza­tions of the Ministries. Lead at the same time to the growth of bureaucracy mechanisms with a recommendation of tens of new positions in line with party plans for the "days" step and not according to the actual needs of the administration. There is also a large number of transitional provisions that have now become the law of 2006, not only unreliable, but totally inapplicable, with arbitrary positions of leaders, without a trace of choices, with an anxiocratic procedures, with inability to apply the provisions of Law No.4369/2016, for the purpose of decommissioning public administration by the parties of the conflict. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, is she a crook for a political force that had made her flag of disobedience to the laws - remember? And I am not talking about 'I don't pay', I am talking about the disobedience to any form of evaluation, from the experimental schools to the public administration - which was bailing against obedience and declaring disobedience to the laws, to come today the same power to criminalise the trade union activity - your trade unionists until yesterday, I imagine, perhaps even the day after tomorrow, but not today by voting - by removing the possibility of those who do not complete the evaluation sheets, because they are involved in the strike, so they cannot participate from now on in the crisis of heads. You're punishing them. Why are you punishing them? You're punishing them because they're not good kids. You punish them for still doing what they knew to do before your own blessings. So you cannot in no way proceed to an integrated evaluation system. It is clear that we are voting against this amendment. Regarding the amendment by the Ministry of Justice, we have already told you since the 2015 basic regulation was passed that your approach to the very serious and indeed extremely pressing penal problem is at least mystical. It's really deeply unequal, unfair and conservative. You treat prisons as a field of ideological exercises and as electoral tanks. You remain committed to the logic of emblematic, clipboard and legal land interventions. It is appropriate to close your eyes again on the moral and political misrepresentation of crimes, many crimes. Move towards horizontal redundancies rather than the arrangements they assess and the risk and personality of the prisoner, but also the seriousness of the offence. Refugee to introduce substantial exceptions. You are choosing to leave serious offences in the Criminal Code, such as acts of terrorism, outside the scope of the exceptions. Finally, refuse the mandatory use of electronic monitoring devices, which may provide much greater guarantees for the protection of public security. We are asking ourselves, in fact, what are the benefits of this second intervention? How do you think the situation will improve? How will Greece save the sentences from the European Court of Justice for the inhuman conditions of detention and living in prisons? Instead of working for human prisons, you prefer to empty the prisons. No definitive, no convincing solution is given to the problem of the penitentiary system. It's an ad hoc decongestion, it's a criminal intervention, which makes horizontal redundancies conditional on prisons. In Greek prisons, ladies and gentlemen, there is a humanitarian crisis. There is a morbid situation, and this situation must be overthrown, but not by intervention for the eyes of the world, but not by interventions dictated by the SYRIZA Department of Rights officials, not by interventions from those who want to take advantage of the need for detainees against certain votes. This is not the case, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, credentials of progressive ideology and governance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u14	It's a thousand two hundred.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u15	In the votes of the prisoners...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u16	Ask Mr. Lambrou. Mr. Lambrou will be better informed. We in the Democratic Reconciliation will insist on the road to major and progressive reforms. We will insist on the fact that we need to see the criminal arsenal again today by reviewing and reforming the Criminal Code, the Penal Code, the Code of Criminal Procedure, by strengthening infrastructure in the training of staff, by creating modern structures for prisoners. So, as you can see, we will vote against this amendment. With regard to Articles 40 and 41 of the bill, ladies and gentlemen, the new articles, the Democratic Reconciliation has shown that it defends the European legal acquis and human rights, and that it respects the decisions of both the European institutions and those of the European Court of Human Rights. In particular, the latter have contributed to the consolidation and deepening of human rights, as well as to the protection of freedoms and have promoted the principles and values of modern legal culture. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I ask you a minute, Mr President, not more. In this sense, we agree with the implementation of the final judgment of the European Court of Human Rights, in which it is considered that a court ruling by the National Court was issued in breach of a right and at some point, if you wanted to discuss it, you would also explain to us why you were confined to the voluntary procedure only. As far as the legal nature of the procedure and the provisions of the substantive law of the European Convention on Human Rights are concerned, we are absolutely in agreement. It goes without saying that this line of action which has been struggling to highlight the European acquis of our legal culture. Because that is self-evident, another such self-evident thing is for us to put an end to the communication game of the misleading SYRIZA - ANEL, where SYRIZA has chosen to govern with ANELs for the memorandum, tax raids on employees and pensioners, interventions in justice, undermining institutions, the prerogative of the client regime, and addressing Anti-Politicism - particularly in Democratic Reconciliation - to pass bills on the coexistence agreement, the motto, equal treatment of persons at work, human and social rights. This is over! That is why we are telling you that we are not giving an alibi to the lack of a government majority. We will no longer alibi the lack of a declaration in favour of draft laws or individual provisions, regardless of their content. If you do not have the required government majority in the articles and amendments you are proposing, ladies and gentlemen of the House, you will be aware that you will not find any support for us in order to replace with our own votes the heirly agreement of interests linking the alliance of the two SYRIZA and ANLE parties. So we are asking you today to withdraw the relevant regulations and after you have persuaded your partners in the government to vote for them, then we will be happy to vote in favour of them. We, unlike your partners, believe that this provision should be voted on by a government which has agreed that it has a common line on these issues, both on the issues of overtaxation of citizens and on the issues of social rights. There's no deal. Since you have an honest agreement, as you have said so far, this honest agreement on all issues, we are prepared to see it every time. In any event, from now on, we will vote against anything that has no agreement with you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr. Papatheodorou.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u18	Mr President, I shall conclude.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u19	Mr. Papatheodorou, you have your dentistry. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u20	Mr President, I am finishing the phrase and coming down from the Step. In fact, in addition to the articles in the transposition of the directive, we are therefore voting against the bill on the other provisions you have brought today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u21	Mr Ioannis Aivatidis, special speaker of the Golden Dawn, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr President. It is now too late for the Democratic Integration, the New Democracy and other parties, which supported the draft law on the Islamic mosque, as well as the coexistence pact. They have been politically labelled by these choices and gave an alibi at least to the Independent Greeks who did not vote in favour of these draft laws. I repeat: they have been politically stigmatized. The introduced draft law is a harmonisation of Greek legislation with European Directive 2014/41/EU on a European research mandate to combat cross-border organised crime. I have already stressed that the European Union directives on the Member States are binding only on the achievement of the objectives. There is, therefore, an objective which should be achieved through legislation, but the Member State - if there are specific national circumstances - has some discretion in regulating this directive, for the benefit of the national state and national sovereignty. National sovereignty is not only a matter for the border. It also concerns national law. With this draft law, this directive, we believe that national sovereignty and the legal system in our country are being circumvented. European sovereignty and Greek sovereignty or the national sovereignty of another European state are conceptually competitive, since strengthening European sovereignty entails a reduction in the national sovereignty of the Member State concerned. The Golden Dawn is committed to safeguarding national sovereignty. The draft law relates to the legal system in our country and the Golden Dawn will relentlessly vote against it at first, but also against the articles of this draft law, once again acting as an ethnic guard within the Greek Parliament. Responsibility for the assignment of national sovereignty to the level of law lies with the parties that have been ruling over many years, namely the New Democracy and the PASOK. Both Greece and the other Member States have transferred definitive and irrevocable sovereign rights to the European Union. Unfortunately, they cannot retreat until after all, unless they decide to secession from the European Union. So the roots of evil are very deep and relate to the New Democracy and the PASOK, today's Democratic Partnership and, in general, to this falsified constitutional arch. Directive 41/2014, which introduces, circumvents our national sovereignty. What is of particular interest is that the list of cross-border, organised crimes includes racism, xenophobia. Honestly, this reference to racist crime, and even cross-border crime, goes beyond the outdated ones and is, in any case, abusive. I would like to repeat that those indigenous Europeans, citizens of the national states, are fighting for the European values and ideals of their nations, are not racist. It is a defence mechanism to fight against new demons, which indeed represent them - and this has been proved because of the terrorist acts that have taken place throughout Europe - fundamentalists Islam. What, then, is the cross-border crime that is stirring up and plagues Europe at the moment? They are the terrorist acts of Islamic fundamentalism. I will only go into the process of reporting and commenting on two amendments in my prototype. The first is Amendment No 1257, concerning the extension of the so-called Act of Friday. In the year 2013, when I served as the Deputy Head of the Medical Service of Corfu, on request I was asked to examine a twenty-year-old Greek student - her little name was Spyridula - who had fallen victim to assault by an Afghan pseudo-phraspheric refugee - in fact, Greece rejected his asylum request - and a pseudo-liberal, because she was not a minor. So, exploring this incident, which had given me a special impression and recorded the injuries brought by Spyridula, the 20-year-old student then, what gave me a special impression on her description was that the Afghan perpetrator had increased homicide, that is, while this girl was somehow held back to the cliff, the shooter attacked her again in order to suppress her void. So, Afghan, supposedly underage, who was punished for ten years in prison, was released on October 30, 2015. A year later, a young German woman, Maria Ladenburger, murdered Germany one year later, which forced the German Government to indulge in a way the Greek Government. Of course, with some announcement, which had emerged from the SYRIZA - ANEL conflict, they were trying to justify unjustified. The Germans, however, considered Merkel and the open-ended homicide policy to be responsible for this heinous crime with Maria Ladenburger, but did not refer much to the open-ended policy followed by our country and the "supporter" to the Afghan killer law of Friday. Of course, under the so-called Law of Friday, the government claims that the reason why it introduced this draft law was the decongestion of prisons. I have heard in committee Mr. Paraskevilos - who appears as the SYRIZA's mobile legal library - who said that it has no effect on early release of the crimes. That's not true. There are various views, including the view that when prisons are inadequate, relapse occurs to a greater extent. Even in Norway with an excellent penitentiary system, the perpetrators have about 43% relapse of their criminal activity. The other day, a gang was dismantled. I would call it a criminal organization, perhaps. Of course, that's what the court will decide. Besides, the presumption of innocence exists. Multi-purpose spiral, headed by an Albanian woman, had really created a huge problem in tourists mainly, moving by subway. There have been too many thefts. The question arises: Yes, it is not in the heinous - let's say it - crimes. But it is very harmful to society as a whole. Are these people, if and if they are truly guilty and condemned, should they benefit from the favourable treatment of the Act of Friday? But they'll relapse, and that's for granted. Besides, their action was an action of fierce thieves. Finally, I shall refer to the other amendment. It is actually what - and I am sorry to say this - serves the interests of the so-called 'Turkish Union of Thrace', which had appealed to the European Court of Human Rights. It had been justified, while the Marios Ice had rejected the complaints and requests concerning the Union's action - and they call it relentless and irresponsible, I would say - in favour of their Turkish conscience. Indeed, there are too many agents in Thrace, paid by the Turkish state. So the official Greek state should not be the tail of these moderation policies, which are really ethnic fluorescents for our country. Finally, I do not adopt a recent publication, but I would like to mention it and I would ask the Minister, whether he will disprove it or confirm it. It is, therefore, being portrayed by the Minister - it is nothing to do with this, I would simply like, if he has the kindness to confirm it or to disprove - the one end of the Greek flag in a parade which had taken place in North Korea in 1989 by the deceased Kim Yong Il. The confirmation of this report, if it actually takes place by the Minister - if I do, of course, repeat, it is not obliged, but it will be left with some impressions of algals I have the view - shows that there are immigrant communists who, although they are involved with a liberal or neoliberal policy, remain. Of course, the only possible alibi that the Minister could have for his presence there is that he, Kim Young Il, was born in the Soviet Union at that time in 1941 under the name of Yuri Ircemovic Kim. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. My colleague, Emmanuel Synthrakis, special speaker from the Communist Party of Greece, has the floor. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government, loyal to its Euro-Union, anti-linguistic directions and directives, seeks with this draft law and on the pretext of the existing issue of crime and its international dimensions to further strengthen the repressive mechanism of the European Union, in line with the European directive under the heading 'European mandate for investigation in criminal matters'. It is no coincidence that other parties, other than the Communist Party of Greece, expressed themselves positively in voting for the adoption of this reactionary directive into Greek law. For the Communist Party of Greece this Directive contributes to the strengthening of the mechanisms of repression of the European Union, to the further efforts to build the well-known reactive area of freedom, security and justice and as a follow-up to a series of other authoritarian conventions, directives and decisions, such as the Schengen Treaty, the European Arrest Warrant and many others. All these mechanisms serve the strategic priority of the political expressions of the Euro-Union capital. It is really hypocritical that the government and the Euromoney parties are insisting that the European Union, a highly imperialist mechanism, is trying to combat crime and, at international level, too. Let us remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that Schengen, an organised mechanism for the repression of the European Union, with its experience so far, shows that it has not only struck organised crime, but left it intact, such as the circuits of migrant refugees and migrants, as well as the various nationalist and fascist groups, which, on the pretext of illegal entry of refugees and migrants into the Schengen countries, do not lose the opportunity to spill their poison, express their racist and fascist smear by arresting and pretext of terrified refugees, as the criminal Nazi Gold Dawn does. What is of interest to the architects of the Schengen Agreement and to various Community directives, such as the one we are discussing, is to make it possible to control and ultimately suppress the anti-Community legality movement. Under the guise of the fight against organised crime, the fight against terrorism and the increase in immigration, new repressive mechanisms have been created for Europol, Eurojust, Frontex and others, which fall within the so-called European Area of Freedom, Security and Justice, and the anti-liberal, anti-democratic and state-run anti-democratic arsenal has been significantly strengthened. Eurojust, i.e. the European Judicial Cooperation Unit, for which a comprehensive reference is made to Article 4 of the draft law, Article 1 of the Directive on the scope of the European Research Command, is a repressive mechanism that complements Schengen, Europol and Frontex in the name of dealing with cross-border crime and in particular so-called terrorism. It also has a dual role, which many of these aspects of the dual role refer to this bill. In other words, on the one hand, the coordination of national authorities in cross-border crime and the execution of European arrest warrants and, on the other, the intervention and provision of the Member States' authorities to initiate investigations and criminal prosecutions, even for crimes involving a single Member State. It may participate as an independent mechanism in the investigations through the establishment of joint action groups. Ladies and gentlemen, it is another thing that cooperation between countries that want to contribute to the fight against organised crime, and the JRC does not underestimate this, and another thing is the setting-up of mechanisms which are exploited by the dominant classes as an additional tool in their hands to suppress the workers and the peoples of these countries more widely, which at least we are against, and we are against it. There is the greatest hypocrisy in pursuits. We believe that, particularly in the present circumstances, in the context of the European Union, this cooperation is intended to spread and adopt the anti-terrorist and anti-immigrant doctrines, both of the United States and of the European Union, which are used for preventive wars, to strike popular movements. The course of the Euro-Union repressive directives and mechanisms has so far led to a severe attack on the rights and freedoms of our people and other countries. The Maastricht and Amsterdam Treaties were those which led to the creation of the falsely known area of freedom, security and justice of the European Union, as enriched by the Tampere Agreement of Finland, then the Hague Programme and the Stockholm Programme in 2010, as well as the incorporation of the Schengen Treaty into Community law. These mechanisms have strengthened and strengthened a gigantic network of Euro-Union and national repression mechanisms, the main aim of which is the class-based popular movement, violating popular democratic freedoms, leading to subjugation and terrorisation of the people. Only the JRC, ladies and gentlemen, has opposed these mechanisms of terror, monitoring and repression of popular liberties and within the House, when European directives were legislated and incorporated into Greek law, as is the case today, and outside the House with the struggles to defend and broaden popular freedoms and rights. What is being prepared, what is being set up at European Union level, concerns us all. And sooner or later, it is used to hit the popular movement, Greek and foreign workers, whenever they stand a head and claim even a small part of what they deserve and deprive them. There is no justification today for any delusion over the true intentions of the European Union, when both themselves and their governments have devastated whole countries and peoples to serve the interests of their monopolies when they are the same ones. Of these, does anyone really expect to fight international crime? We know very well what the back is finally intended for these new repressive mechanisms to be implemented, and we warn against the negative effects that will have on people's freedoms in general. It is therefore clear that this directive is even more reacting to the European Union's legislative framework, as shown by the regulations of this draft law. For example, in Article 13(1), we have also said in the debate in the Standing Committee that double criminality is being abolished. We will not disagree with what you said, Minister, in committee, that there are exceptions to tax, customs and banking crimes and that Greece can refuse to execute the European order for acts which do not constitute a criminal offence in the executing State. We, as a JRC, incorporate our commitment to our overall rationale for this reactionary directive, which we find opposing. We fear that the application of this provision in the future can be extended to other cases. In this sense, we are voting 'the present'. Article 16(3) of the directive, which refers to legal instruments, is an indication of the spirit in which this directive is moving. First, the suspect should be informed of the possibility of appeals only if the confidentiality of the investigation is not jeopardised. And we have a recent experience in our country. The heavy condemnation of Herianna is still fresh, with only half the fingerprint and a witness who never showed up in court. Secondly, in the same article, it states that the legal means which the person concerned may exercise in the executing State of the European Research Command is limited only to the standard European Research Command and not to the basis of substance. In other words, in other words, this directive will be implemented, even in offences which may not be persecuted in our country, and on the one hand the defendant will be unable to incur and challenge the substance of the decision on which he has been convicted. Article 24 on popular freedoms and rights, which refers to the possibility of transferring prisoners into the framework of interrogative needs between the countries of the European Union, we consider it particularly dangerous. Despite the fact that the transfer of prisoners is currently foreseen that it cannot be done without the consent of the prisoner, it is an extremely reactionary arrangement which, in our view, opens the way for further reactionary developments. After all, it is well known that global air traffic of suspects from a country to a country and the investigations of prisoners in the context of the fight against terrorism by the CIA and other imperialist secret services. On the basis of all the above, then, we, ladies and gentlemen, are voting against and denounced this bill. I now come to the ministerial amendments. First of all, the amendment on the evaluation of civil servants will be voted against by the JRC. Neither sound nor touches, like the New Democracy and the PASOK. In the Standing Committee on Public Administration and today it was 'yes' to see it. There are some technical and legal issues. We reserve it, and so on. Even if they vote against it, the disagreement between the New Democracy, the PASOK and the other parties - and the River and the Central Union - is not in the essence of this so-called historic evaluation, which is said by SYRIZA - ANEL, since their positions are converging with those of the government. Any disagreement has to do with secondary technical and legal issues. For the JRC, the amendment is extremely unacceptable and blackmailing for civil servants. The government is trying to break them down, break them down and force them to implement its policy, since it was unable to do so the previous time in the strike - abstention, which exceeded 90% of civil servants. What is the amendment doing? He blackmails public administration officials, heads and directors, telling them that they have no right to apply for their service development if they do not assess civil servants first, based on also unacceptable reactionary v 4369/2016, by Mr. Vernardakis. The amendment therefore serves to promote the rapid and unresponsive evaluation of staff, serves the reactionary reorganisation of the state, to be more effective for capitalist development and more capable of dealing with the people's struggles. The Government has diligently concealed that the assessment in the civil state cannot be impartial or reputable. It is directly linked to targeting, serving anti-Hallian designs and leading with mathematical accuracy to redundancies and wage reductions, and the government say it serves exactly the opposite. And he is being concealed by SYRIZA - ANEL, as did the previous ones, the New Democracy and the PASOK. It has nothing to do with the so-called evaluation of what the JRC says, namely the need for scientific, technical and professional support for civil servants, so that public services can be better and modern. It does not mean that there are any cases in which modern and expanded people's needs can be met. For the JRC, it is another thing that the civil servant should be right toward the workers, the citizens and the slander, so that his efficiency is linked to the evaluation, to the wage cut and redundancies. Even more, of course, for the amendment and the JRC's views on the evaluation will be said by another Member of our party. Also, let me turn to the amendment on emergency measures to dismantle detention shops. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] This is another legislative initiative for urgent decongestion of prisons, which, unfortunately, we do not believe will be the last. For adults, the conditional release conditions for sentences with prison sentences and sentences, which do not exceed 10 years, are being maintained somewhat tightened up in terms of release conditions, subject to conditions for sentences with sentences of more than 10 years in prison, and also concerns other issues - which I will not analyse so that I do not waste time - and issues relating to minors. Since 2008, at least six such legislations have been passed by all governments, under the principle of New Democracy, following the PASOK and the last of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, which are attempting to artificially dismantle overhead detention stores. The result is that the situation in prisons remains bad and the problem is constantly recycled, not only because crime cannot be tackled radically within the rotten exploitation system that we are living in, but also because all these fragmentary legislations are not serving any sense of conscientiousness, the improvement of detention conditions, the reintegration with concrete measures to deal with relapse. They manage the problem short-sightedly without solving it. The Minister and Mr. Paraparmatopoulos claimed to the committee that there have been results and even more positive results from the implementation of the Act of Friday, as regards the situation in prison, meaning the smallest number of detainees, compared with 2015. Of course, the reality is that the situation in prisons in no way substantially improved. How, after all, could it be improved, if there are no corresponding funds available for upgrading the logistics infrastructure, hiring qualified scientific staff and a number of other measures? It remains the stack of prisoners in unacceptable conditions and, of course, the big issue is what is going on with those who leave prisons, including barbecue, who should not normally be left to their fate, without reintegration structures, without effective supervision and assistance, to relapse and thus to recycle the problem. Even more serious and worrying is the issue of minors, who are left unprotected and who are literally north of the various criminal circuits, inside and outside the prisons. For all of this the government, the Minister, is not speaking of talking or of course proposing very specific measures. That is why we cannot vote in favour of the amendment and we are in favour of it. This is in the draft law on both amendments. We will be able to go along with the other amendments. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Athanasios Papachristopoulos, special speaker of the Independent Greeks, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u26	Before Mr. Papachristopoulos begins, can I table a legislative improvement?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u27	Don't you want the speakers to finish first?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u28	Anytime.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u29	We usually don't interrupt the number of speakers. Thank you. Mr. Papachristopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u30	In January 2015, SYRIZA won the first time in the elections, and we worked with him. Then, and now, they're joining us with specific options. It was what we thought the tax evasion was now uncontrolled. Today we find out it's around 16 to 17 billion a year. Nobody bothered. Corruption and complication had almost drowned in the country and the mid-term dictatorship - please forgive me the extreme expression - was a sign. Good or bad that a Conservative Conservative Party collaborated with a left party? And I say this, with the opportunity of hearing Mr Güleka and Mr Papatheodorou - whom I respect - argument, but I will then come there. Good or bad that we collaborated? I think it was very good. Evidence that today, after passing through the clay dwarfs, the country is coming out in a year and less than the surveillance and size of the memorials. Without anyone exaggerating, there is - not to say investment orgasm - a major investment activity for the first time in years. All of us have been upgraded, all of Europe is saying that this government is moving properly again - without excesses and triumphs - and in a way, it justifies this cooperation. So I heard Mr Güleka saying, 'when you disagree somewhere, we will vote against it, that is to say we will put you in a difficult position'. Mr Papatheodorou repeated that. That's a respectable point of view. I think everyone chooses the way they stand, but you will allow me to say that I do not think it is a reliable choice. I mean, it reminds me of a child's game: you did this to me, I'll do that to you. I don't have to apologize for anything. I'm just telling you. I come to the point of the matter today. It is a directive that I think we all agree that it should be done and it is the best thing to do, and I would be glad to say it to the committees - to see this compliance on many issues. Because I see she's selective. In other words, this is correct compliance, and indeed everyone has welcomed it, because if I understood it correctly, everyone does not disagree with the central substance of at least compliance with this directive. They have all drawn to the subject of a specific amendment. We do not monopolize the truth, nor do we claim infallibility. But we all know that we have a sensitivity to national issues. I repeat: we do not monopolize the truth or claim infallibility. I will not spend much time, Mr President. It is the amendment with a general number of 1247 and a special 99. After recalling what we have done and that we have been treating minorities and refugees - it is not time for me to list them - in fact, with how much love, namely, we have beenhaved all over this world - unpreserved for a Conservative Conservative Party, I do not hide it - I would ask the Minister to see this issue again. We have a sensitivity there. We believe it touches some national issues. Again, I say that we do not monopolize the truth or claim infallible. It is a request for love to see this amendment again. I think he'll give us a chance to see her like this, with a more mature look. Be sure, however, that the government will not fall. There is not even one case in the billion. Some people should forget that if they dream about it, because that's not the case. They unite us so strong choices - I have said them from the outset - and I find it a little difficult, to be unlikely. I just want to say this. I believe that this debate today has moved to good levels, without fanatics, without high tones. I think the third evaluation will be over by the end of the year. There's been a great deal of effort, and I think it'll end. I think that the country will re-enter the markets and I think that at the end of '18 we will leave the comitology. Watch out for respect - there are in all countries, even in Germany - because there are many people who confuse them and listen to things. I say that this compliance is a nice start for everyone, with very low tones and, above all, with reasonable sense. Some people in my village were saying "better to believe than to be given". I have no more to say. I reintroduce the request to the Minister for Justice to see this amendment again, and I want to believe that he will understand us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. My colleague, Mr Ioannis Saridis, from the Centron Association, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u32	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, as a Greek MP, I have the privilege of living every year in person, at the first hand, to say, the International Exhibition of my city, and I consider this to be happy for myself, because this is how I am given the opportunity to monitor and interpret political interpretations and the Prime Minister and the Chief of Officer of the Anti-Population Officer in the city's cafés and with the help of the Thessalonians, whose enormous experience in listening to words, promises, announcements and programs has no match in Greece. It no longer sweats the ear of Thessaloniki, ladies and gentlemen. For many years now, the Prime Minister says we will be leaving the memorials in August 2018. And Thessaloniki asks: How are we going to get out? He declares the Chief of Staff Response that he will reduce taxes and Thessaloniki asks how he will reduce taxes. But the questions of Thessaloniki have remained unanswered for decades. That is why, Mr Colleague, Thessaloniki knows that those who visit it once a year, those who remember it for just a week, do not come to listen, but to speak. They don't come to answer, but to declare, proclaim, promise. And they all come very well trained and very well prepared by their staff, by their communicationians, to be able to do just one thing, to avoid answering questions, which are as simple as it is difficult, for example in how we can talk about getting out of the memoranda when we have granted everything for ninety years. How can we talk about a reduction in taxation when we are not allowed to give pensions to widows or return double contributions from long-term volunteers? Ladies and gentlemen, I feel obliged to convey a message from my fellow citizens in Thessaloniki to the Chamber, and the message is simple: no one believes you, because no one has heard you explain to him how you will do all of this, which, with detailed words and after many rehearsals, you come and promise the International Exhibition of Thessaloniki. If you really understand your responsibility to make a political speech that responds to reality, then you should be more concerned about the future and more strongly about the universal demand of Greek society for the reintroduction of the use of substantiated arguments in the political life of this place. Ladies and gentlemen, the arguments are necessary to enable the citizens to understand what we are voting in for them, many times, unfortunately without them. The arguments are necessary, so that the citizens can distinguish the substantial differences between the political parties, who claim their vote, to govern this place here. So as long as this situation continues, where no one feels the need to substantiate what he says, to explain and explain, do not expect the citizens to change their minds and to review their equilibrium view, that everyone here is the same and that no one really cares to strengthen our democracy, defend the national, the public, the common interest of all of us. We should all move here and everyone in this Chamber in this direction, bringing the informed and responsible citizen to the fore and addressing those who do not accept any other labels than Greek and Greek. There are no responsible citizens today who accept to identify them with one word, a name of a party. What does it mean to be sniffy? What does it mean by a neo-democratic? What does it mean to be central? What does it mean? As the domestic political system works, these words are empty today. Parliament's demand is not to explain every legal and technical detail to the citizens. Requirement for parliamentaryism is to explain how what we are voting on improves the lives of citizens and ensures the public interest, such as the current accession bill of the Ministry of Justice, which we are trying to incorporate into Greek law the very important European directive 2014/41. This is, of course, a relatively complex and certainly specialised bill, but which has a very simple and clear target, to remove the obstacles posed by the existence of national borders in the administration of justice. As we all know, organised crime, international terrorism, violence and evil do not know from borders, they do not have geographical designations and in any case they do not care at all who is competent or unauthorized to catch and punish them. Nor, of course, is it annoying by professional cross-border criminals the bureaucracy faced by prosecutors and judges of Europe in their efforts to deliver justice. These problems are trying to solve Europe with this directive, which we are considering today in our national law. We have already taken a positive stand at the meetings of the committee responsible, saying that the Central Association will vote in favour of this important bill at first, which aims to create those conditions, so that no one can feel a criminal safe anywhere in Europe, because they can simply cross a border or have money, so that they can hire a good lawyer who can take advantage of gaps and bureaucracy, but also the inconsistency that we often see between the European prosecution and judicial authorities. In addition to the details of the draft law, which has been adequately examined in committee, and the point being that all civil servants should be informed, with the responsibility of the state, of their responsibilities, of what we must stress, as a Union of Centres, is that the European Directive 41 is a very good example of what can give us all a more united Europe, a stronger Europe, a Europe that seeks democratically to find solutions to common problems. Organised crime and international terrorism are our common problems and in our common problems we need common solutions. Having said this, I would like to comment on the amendments which have forced us to add to the title of the draft law in question the words 'other provisions'. On Amendment No 1245 by the Minister of State, Mrs Gerovas, on the evaluation of civil servants, I have two things to say. Firstly, it is not public officials who are responsible for the failure of the evaluation process to the public. And secondly, you're not going to achieve anything with threats and fears. In combination, I would say that the failure of this very critical and necessary assessment is mainly a lack of confidence in the government. No one is convinced that this is a worthwhile and fair process and you do not gain the confidence of any civil servant, threatening him and depriving him of the opportunity to develop. The respectful spokesman of the JRC was raped to judge and judge the Centro Association for the position he would have put forward for this amendment. The Centro Association has been clear from the very beginning: it must be assessed and the slow-wages must be driven out of the public, but not in this way, which does not convince anyone. We will vote against this amendment, stressing that dialogue is the only way to solve this problem, the cost of which all Greek taxpayers bear. With regard to Amendment No 1246 by the Minister for the Environment, Mr Famelou, on forest maps, first of all it is the only amendment that we have already voted in favour of from committee meetings. It is our central political decision to support the processes of integration of forest maps and that is for one reason only: Forest maps are a tool for economic development. Greece has lost too many opportunities in the past because it remains the only European country that has no forest maps. It is our duty to do everything we can to stop this country from taking its own eyes out. But that does not mean that we do not respect the arguments of local government and environmental organisations. But it is sufficient to assure the Minister responsible that, soon before the end of the year, the issue of housing density will be brought to the relevant committees, Minister, which we are monitoring very carefully and very closely in order to reach a number of sustainable solutions, on some substantiated proposals. And I now come to Amendment 1247 under the extremely misleading title 'to supplement the provisions of Article 758 of the Code of Civil Procedure'. There is a story behind this particular amendment, of which the rapporteurs would like to call us in this Chamber today, Minister of Justice, Mr Kontonis. Is the Minister aware that the report on the assessment of consequences accompanying this ministerial amendment is extremely irregular, to the extent that I suspect its authors have had malicious motives, as is even missing the formal evidence provided by the Rules of Procedure? The Centro Association calls for the immediate withdrawal of this amendment, for reasons of national interest. If you do not withdraw it, I intend to recommend the withdrawal of the Centro Union from the present procedure. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, for this amendment and the risks it contains for national security, I informed the government a week ago in particular, in a very competent and confidential manner, as I felt the responsibility I had to impose, as a member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and National Defence. I informed you a long time before one of you leaked to journalists its content to make use of it for its own view. We're not playing with Thrace, gentlemen. Don't you know the action of the Turkish Consulate? Are you ignoring her? What are these toys? What arguments are there from the Democratic Alliance and from the New Democracy? What does it mean 'yes, but'? This is a national issue, gentlemen. We are talking about peculiarities, which should have been assessed and evaluated, because no one was found to support these peculiarities in the European Court of Justice. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Anastassios Kourakis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] Greece, Austria, Luxembourg, other Belgium, there are particular problems. We have national issues. There are no ethnic minorities in Greece. There is no Turkish minority in Thrace. There are immigrants, there are refugees, there is the Muslim minority, but not the Turkish minority. One word makes all the difference. A word guarantees that the Treaty of Lausanne is respected. We have a religious minority in Thrace and not a national.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u33	Does the amendment say anything like that, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u34	For the rest of the government's legislative work, we will be placed in our dentistry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Mr Saridis, special speaker of the Centroon Association. Mr Dannelis from the river has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, as we have said at committee meetings, Potami is voting in favour of this draft law, as it does in any appropriate case in which a European directive is incorporated into Greek law. With this bill, we incorporate the European directive on the so-called European Criminal Research Order. This is a bill which speeds up legal assistance procedures between Greece and the other European Union countries in criminal investigations that are under way. Henceforth, based on what is envisaged by the regulations introduced, Greek researchers, interrogators, prosecutors will be able to go to other European countries in order to participate in investigations, which are under way, in major or international criminal cases, and the same applies to their European counterparts. The procedures provided for shall be based on a single instrument, called the European Research Command. The European Research Command shall constitute a judicial decision or validate a judicial authority against a Member of the European Union in order to carry out a series of investigations in another Member State. The European Research Command has a horizontal scope, namely, should apply to all research measures aimed at collecting evidence. A single regime for collecting evidence is now established throughout the criminal proceedings. Rules shall be laid down for the execution of an investigation measure at all stages of the criminal proceedings, including the proceedings, where necessary, involving the person concerned for the purpose of collecting evidence. It should be noted that a fundamental principle governing the directive is the obligation of Member States to take care of different policies on the processing of personal data for the exercise of the rights of persons concerned in respect of legal remedies. This aims to protect personal data and, of course, to respect fundamental rights for the least possible infringements of them. With regard to the amendments, the first one incorporated as Article 36 relates to the National Register of Public Administration Executives, on the evaluation procedure for selecting Heads of Organic Units. The evaluation is a crucial issue for the quality of public administration, which, unfortunately, all governments have, at least to date, postponed to carry out, in a substantial way, supporting the continuation of immunity micro-particularly, on the basis of the logic of political contributors to trade unions and groups of influence. It is well known how the efficiency of a staff member is a function of three factors: firstly, the functionality and rationality of the structure of the service, in which the staff member serves. Secondly, integrated operational planning. And thirdly, proper management of human resources. Wrong people in wrong positions cannot be efficient and, of course, it does not mean evaluation without motive and counter-incentives. The fragmentary way of legislating in terms of evaluation, unfortunately, is also awkward in this respect. The amendment is indicative. We are always clear about the mother of all the reforms, the reform of the public administration, so we are saying today that you will leave the fragmentary amendments and proceed immediately and substantially to an integrated assessment. This amendment is perhaps a first step towards reconciliation with the reality, but it does not heal this years of public health, that is, the refusal to make a substantial and lasting assessment. That is why we shall vote 'at present' in this amendment. Amendment No 1246 amending the provisions of forestry legislation, which is incorporated into Articles 37, 38 and 39, includes an amendment to Article 23(4) of Law No3889/2010 to reflect the boundaries of settlements on forest maps. This is an attempt to adopt a ministerial decision law, which clearly paves the way for exemption from the forest law of arbitrary settlements, not only from fragmentary buildings, which have been erected on forest land. This Ministerial Decision on residential density has been affected by an application for annulment by the WWF Greece and other bodies before the Council of State. Last July, the Section of the Council of State decided that the unresolved decision infringed two articles of the Constitution and referred the case to plenary. It should also be noted that only by means of a Presidential Decree can the arrangements contained therein be adopted. The rules provided for in this Decision promote the horizontal exemption from forest maps and tariffs of arbitrary settlements including forests, forests or reservoirs. Bypassing judicial control and ignoring environmental legislation is countering the constitutionally regulated principle of separation of powers. Of these procedures it is doubtful that, once again, we will have sufficient time for this regulation, as this time is short and we are afraid that we will soon have a new amendment to extend the period of validity. So in this amendment we are negative. Amendment No 1247/95, which is embodied in Articles 40 and 41 of this bill, on the completion of the provisions of Article 758 of the Code of Civil Procedure, is a matter that we have been concerned with for years. There is a period of pending adoption and acceptance of final decisions by the European Court of Human Rights, which, over time, exposes our country to top European institutions, such as the Council of Europe. It must be closed in the best possible way for our country. There are, however, issues that need to be explained, and that is why we will make it conditional on the continuation of the debate, Minister. In relation to Amendment No 1254 and Amendment No 102 on the amendment to Article 32 of the Court of Auditors' Code of Conduct, we do not understand why it is now specifically necessary, five years after the exercise of that competence by the Commissioners hierarchically, to pass to the upper five-member section. Is it for the sake of decongestion of the stairways?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u37	For short, Mr. Dannelly.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u38	We fear that this will impose further delays in the completion of the management of appeals or other cases, and that is why we believe that this additional step may be superfluous, which we fear, as I have told you, that instead of shortening, it will delay the conclusion of a crisis critical to the administration. With regard to Amendment No 1257 and specific 105 with the current date of deposit, which concerns the extension of the favourable regime for the release of detainees up to 28-08-2018, in accordance with the law on the decongestion of prisons that had been voted on under Mr Paradise's office, we are here prolonging the favourable regulation for another year, effectively canceling the judges' judges' judges' judges' judgment on the measurement of penalties. Indeed, the extension of the law includes those who will be sentenced until 28-08-2018, from what we have seen. It is logical, as we understand it, that this will lead to great pressure on the part of the accused for rapid trial. We will see cases of accused persons prefer the self-sacrifice to ask for a deadline in order to obtain favourable arrangements. It may, of course, also lead to an increase in the limits of penalties on the other hand, in terms of judges, in order not to compromise the legal order and the relevant penalties, as they know and apply them to date. In fact, while an exception is rightly provided for in the release for a number of acts of a malicious nature, such as the insult of human value and sexual freedom, in a subsequent paragraph we are seeing a strange 'objection'. By decision of the prosecutor, at the request of the parties concerned, they will be able to release themselves under the condition of house arrest and electronic surveillance in the bracelet. Do we want this? Also, Minister, in the exceptions we do not see those condemned for acts of terrorism, as well as those involved in organised crime. Shouldn't these accusations be condemned to be excluded from these provisions? Of course, Minister, no one can deny that detention conditions in the Greek penitentiary are unacceptable. They are unacceptable in particular according to European culture. But horizontal dismissals of detainees do not serve the legitimate feeling of citizens, as do people's security. Of course they do not serve the Greek legal system and I very much fear that the whole matter is a direct interference by the executive, as well as by the legislative authority, in matters of primary judicial authority. That is why we cannot vote in favour of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Mr. Dannelly. The ministers will take the floor for a while for legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u40	Mr President, could I make a legal improvement?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u41	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u42	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a legal improvement in paragraph 3 of the first article of the first article of the amendment with a general number of 1257 and a specific 105 on decongestion. The words ‘and at the same time’ shall be deleted and replaced by ‘or’.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u43	Please, Minister, to be presented and distributed to my fellow Members.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u44	Of course, Mr President. I'm presenting it for the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u45	Thank you. The Deputy Minister for Health, Mr. Paulakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Mr President. These are two amendments. One is the general number 1253 and special 101, and concerns the arrangements for the new Central Health Supplies Authority. In the transitional period and until the budget of the new legal person is established, the staff transferred by the current Committee on Health Procurement will be paid from the Ministry's budget, namely the F.240 OEM. It is a transitional arrangement so that the staff can be paid in the medium term until the new budget is established. The second amendment, with a general number of 1254 and a special 102, concerns the correction of two points, not to say errors, because due to the ambiguity of the wording in the Rebate regulation, the reduction of the volume of pharmaceutical expenditure, there have been some difficulties in the implementation of two issues. The first issue relates to paragraph 3 of Article 35, the fifth and sixth subparagraphs, where while the entire paragraph had effect from 1-1-2017, the specific paragraph that said about a variable on new medicines, effectively excluded the drugs that entered the positive list in January 2017. In fact, we are correcting that, in other words, this additional reduction in the volume of the first two years for new medicines also applies. It's about the drugs that entered the list from 1-1-2017. The second paragraph relates to the sixth subparagraph of Article 35 of the EC Treaty. 3918. Basically we regulate the topic as follows: When the EEAY calculates the rebate of medicinal products sold at the pharmacy, it calculates the total expenditure throughout the country. For the same medicine that purchases different hospitals, the calculation of expenditure so far, the rebate, the discount, was per hospital. Now we sum it up. It will be the total cost. In other words, if ten hospitals buy this medicine, the calculation of the discount will be calculated from the total sales volume of that medicine to the hospital as a whole. This reduction will be shared in the budgets on the basis of the market share of each hospital as a whole. These are the two amendments. I also want to tell you, Minister of Justice, that the amendment that the SYRIZA Member, Mr Papadopoulos, will defend, has our agreement. We'd ask you to accept it. It is about the issue of the election of medical clubs. Because a large regulation is being drafted by the codification of all the legislation in place, on the basis of the unanimous proposal submitted by the Pan-Hellenic Medical Association. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Minister. Mr Socrates Famelos, Deputy Minister for the Environment and Energy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Mr President. I took the floor from the Stepma because I'm going to testify a legal improvement and do a three-minute, four-minute placement. The legislative improvement submitted relates to the specific articles of the amendment of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy. It's just numbers. Strike out what does not apply. The number 17 is amended by number 14. You'll see. He'll share. It's nothing special.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u49	But I would also like to inform fellow Members who have spoken and rapporteurs' representatives to clarify that with the amendments we have put to the committees and are currently in the form of articles, the possibility of extending until the next Monday the first post of the maps. So it is well known that last Monday the first post of the maps in our country ends at 35%. Secondly, I should like to make it clear that data of the legitimate interest and of the paradox can be provided even ten days after the date of the suspension, because paradoxes are not immediately issued. Thirdly, I should also like to make it clear that, when considering the objections, interested parties can bring together other accompanying elements, such as photo-interpretations, forest-processing, old satellite photographs, whatever they need, what they will use up to the last day. But I must clarify the issues that Mr Dannelis has raised, which, to some extent, have been heard by the rapporteur of the Union of Centres and are probably of interest to all of you, because you have received letters from environmental organisations and it is good to be clear. With the proposed amendment, Parliament is not for the first time called upon to decide on any matter on which it has not already discussed. The issue of settlements and viral contour has already been decided by L.4389 in May 2016 and provides for an exception from this only posting of viral areas. We are asking Parliament today to specify the criteria for determining these areas and not the procedure. By clarifying, then, the comments you made about the Council of State that the legislator has in general the opportunity to authorize the executive on matters in general and especially of course. This authorisation must be granted to the President of the Republic in general and only on specific matters may the Minister. That is why the Council of State has placed it. The proposed provision does not, however, make use of this possibility to require a presidential decree, but the criteria for determining the settlement are laid down directly by law. It is defined by the legislator and has no problem before and afterward, to underestimate any procedure other than the President of the Republic or the Council of State. However, it is important to mention, in order to avoid any misunderstanding and to state it publicly, that there is no exception to the suspension of forest maps and the application of forestry legislation. The areas of the viral contour, i.e. settlements, are not excluded from forest maps. This obligation is practically extended, so that there is also a need to determine the way in which settlements are handled and not to be excluded. In other words, for the municipalities that are now in the suspension, we must make it clear that a forest map has been drawn up and that the residential density has not been excluded. There is no temporary suspension, of course, I will agree with you. However, these areas are and remain registered until the completion of the process of regulating these areas, and all non-legal structures in these areas are clearly excluded, since the forestry situation has now been reflected and the provisions of forestry legislation are clearly applicable. The proposed provision therefore takes into account the decision of the Council of State and is designed to speed up the ratification process for forest maps. In addition, we are clearly writing in the second subparagraph of paragraph 6 that all these areas exempted from posting at this stage are referred back to the competent department of the Ministry of the Environment for their environmental and urban licensing. So there is no shortage of area that will not apply a forest map. And I want to make it clear. So we inform you that the Ministry of the Environment has already set up a legal committee with officials from forestry and urban services and we commit that there will be a law on how to resolve the housing density and implement forestry legislation and there will be a forest map for them in 2017 as well. And to prove this, I will inform you that within the article now, because it is an article, there is provision that even the OTAs, 65% of the country to be posted since October, the rest, are obliged to close the settlements until 20 December, so that we can be ready by law and begin to examine them, as a proof that will obviously be proved here in Parliament. But I would like to say to you, Mr President, that there is a misinformation that people do not have to pay and have to go to the Council of State with objections and complaints and not object. That's disinformation. Obviously, all possible recourse to the S.H.E. There is, but we don't know what time they're going to cost. The objection is a stage in the administrative facility of the citizen - and the discount that has been made. Of course, I have to tell you that today the decision on imperfection for the ministries, which has not existed until now, is signed. If objections have already been raised, the fee shall be repaid for all imperfections. We have already prepared the committee for opposition. And I want to tell you that already 96% of the municipalities have sent information - it is a very big change, I want you to know it - only the municipalities of Gortynia, Oreokastro, South Pelion, Kimolos and Milos have not sent. The next four days are essential to them. And let me tell you the first results, so I can close and get off. Although we have several objections and obvious errors, the reduction of the objections to the extent is too small, i.e. the objections account for 1.77% of the posted maps. And with that I think I can make some sense of your concern about the exceptional areas. The areas in which we object are very small. The obvious is 0.36%, the forest land on the posted is 67%. So this is the country's forest capital. The outdated ones - you might be interested in hearing it eventually - are 3.4%, while the forested fields in 6.16. Because many ask the forest balance in the country if it improves or retreats. It seems to be improving by abandoning forests, which obliges us to see how we manage them in future. However, with regard to the data available so far, 96.7% of the maps will be validated in November. In other words, we will have 1/3 of the country in 96.7% of the outdated areas. And if you want to see it in our country, 32.5% of Greece will have dominated forest maps, even temporarily, even in this part of November, followed by other areas of opposition and new posts. I hope I've clarified something that worried you. I wanted to be clear. No region of the country will be excluded from the application of the forest map. I'm obviously referring to the offline area. Within the framework of a project, these provisions do not apply to the forest map. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u50	We thank the Deputy Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Famello, for his clarification. Mr. Amyras, I see you want to say something. I'm listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Mr President. I wanted on this issue, and since the Minister spoke to us about the amendment, I would like to ask for precise answers to some questions. Because, with the exception of housing densities from the present phase of posting forest maps in substance, Minister, it is not possible to allow arbitrary owners in such areas to submit objections, which should be judged by the relevant opposition committees. So if the owners of these arbitrary lands within these settlements which are excluded, but now, as far as the suspension is concerned, I say to you, it is that the committee would consider them as a forest area and that it is arbitrary 'carabina', to say it simply, their home. Following the ratification of the forest map, which will also have the judgement of the committee, each owner of arbitrary land within such a settlement within a forested area, could have appealed to the Council of State and there would be a decision by the Council of State. Now, however, it can't be done, it can't happen. I say to you that the Council of State would also take it off, I say it again simply, 'carabina' arbitrarily. But now what about the owners of these arbitrary owners? They remain hostages of a ministerial decision, which will come in the future.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u52	Not with a ministerial decision.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u53	Watch out, if...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u54	Let's finish and you'll answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u55	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u56	A future favourable arrangement, even by law, I tell you. It is possible, therefore, that I have taken the floor, ladies and gentlemen, and as a Parliamentary representative, only on this issue, I would speak - a future revision of the Constitution to determine forest land by means of aerial photographs later than those on the basis of which they are judged today and which is a risk. I'm pointing it out. I hope I have some answers, Minister, to make me think that things will be different. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Mr. Amyras. You understood that we also saved time, because then Mr Amyras won't talk. He's taking advantage of the presence of the Minister, so that the Minister can give an answer. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u58	Just for a minute, Mr President. There will be no hostage of any ministerial decision or personal regulation or personal or political relationship. What must be clear is our commitment to implementing the forest map. Because there is one concern if it does not apply, which I will answer publicly. After all, I have to tell you that only this government has been able to modify and work for eight months on this subject and have a forest map. I think we should be worried about all those who haven't been responsible for so many years. We have taken responsibility, despite all the difficulties and at the social level. Because some have allowed and left the countryside behind because they have hidden the problem under the carpet and left the issue of forestry legislation open. We're not in that mood. So, Mr Amyras, there will be a legislative act, so there will be a debate here, a bill, which will be prepared in 17 to put it in consultation and come here, which will resolve the issue of settlements in order to implement the forest maps, so that every citizen can then claim to any institution, after the result of the settlements, its rights and the issue of forestry legislation in our country, because, I repeat, no one has dared to apply the rule of regularity and the environment to date. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Minister. The Minister for Administrative Reconstruction, Mr Olga Gerovalis, has asked for some clarifications.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Mr President. I need a little time, I do not think more than three minutes to respond to some issues relating to the amendment we are debating today on evaluation, which certainly did not appear surprisingly. I was in the committee responsible when I met and, of course, presented the amendment in principle there. However, as things have been heard, you will allow me to say this for three minutes, in response to the criticism and, above all, today, in response to Mr Papatheodorou's criticism of the Democratic Partnership, which has the title of criticism to us that 'we do not want to reform the state, to make it a worthwhile, transparent, efficient and less bureaucratic, because we are thinking of something else, something else we are hiding'. The least I can tell you, Mr. Papatheodorou, is that you are not well informed. Because this has all happened in this country, but it has happened for decades in this country, but not by this government. This was the case by the PASOK and New Democracy governments over time, which set up this state and maintained it methodically and efficiently. And the clientele and bureaucratic and rousphetological and inefficient and whatever term you used. We have recently presented an integrated programme, which responds to all these issues and responds with dates, with steps and objectives, in order to reach what we want to achieve. It is not a small reform, it is certainly not a magic button, but in these two previous years - two and something - this government, firstly, had to abolish laws, which are directed against the public administration and which, from the coexistence of PASOK and New Democracy, have been in the respective position of the current head of Officerial Repression, set at the forefront, creating complete insecurity in the employment status of civil servants, i.e. by legislating availability, redundancies, self-righteous holidays and so on, Mr Vorides. So we had to abolish them and abolish them, precisely in order to bring back to the conscience of each civil servant and to reform the word reform. To restore the authority of the civil servants and to talk about the public's value and it is our position that the Greek society needs today. So Greek society needs a public with the features you mentioned and which we have already launched as a project and are implementing. I would remind you that the Secretariat-General will continue and be in progress, and at the end of September the notice will be ready for the Secretary-General. The committee which will decide has been posted and made public, the highest evaluation committee for the Secretary-General, Deputy and Sectoral Secretaries. The organograms of the ministries have been completed. The position profiles shall be completed within the following days and the targeting and evaluation of structures. And of course, judgments of directors, if you don't know, and their first phase is over. It's in the interview procedure that the AACC does, not the government. This is all happening. They're happening these days and they're being made public already. That's why I told you you weren't well informed. We are therefore the first government to plan and implement state reform. And we are determined and will continue. As regards the amendment and the criticism that has been heard here and in the public debate, the amendment comes to resolve a matter concerning the evaluation of civil servants for the year 2016. It does not change the law that applies to the evaluation. [[At this point the doorbell ends the speech time of the Minister is ringing.]] I'm gonna need some more time, Mr. President. This is because the civil servants when they heard an assessment felt insecure, even though we have proved that we have done everything we need to avoid feeling it. Some, then, felt insecure, while others have other goals, which are more micropolitical and different. It's not everyone's fault. They resisted and went on abstention since February. He was abducted and not a strike. And I repeat that so that we can get the terms right. We've given an extension. We have also discussed trade unions too many times in public and in events. There have been speeches and what we could do in the public debate, in order to convince us that they have to cooperate, because the evaluation must go ahead. They are right: there have been no overseers' crises, so they will be judged by heads who have not been judged. We agreed. In 2016, however, for which we are discussing, they will be judged by the law leaders of 2016. And now, tomorrow morning, to change all the heads, they're still not gonna do the evaluation, but they're. When should they have changed? Did the evaluation process have to start from 2014 and be completed in 2015, so that the heads of 2016 can be judged rationally?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u61	After you changed the law?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u62	We're talking about the past when you were in government, not us.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u63	Yeah, that's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u64	So we changed the law and because we recognised this issue as a problem, the law predicted this inconsistency and said that the review of the year 2016 - I repeat that we are talking about it alone - will not judge and will have no impact on the crisis of head of the course, precisely because it has this inconsistencies. From there on, completing the crises, overseers’ assessments, etc., i.e. the evaluation for the year 2017, which will take place in the first months of 2018, will complete the crisis procedure so that it is as appropriate. We have also set up the competent bodies to judge all this and we are ready to move forward. We've started, as I told you, by the directors-general. Why didn't the crises run faster? Because the Greek public had to have new organograms. This is what you know, however it sounds like a small title, it's a very weak, heavy process in public administration, because it's abolished addresses, departments, and they're becoming new sections, the seasons have changed, the needs have changed. The Greek State must adapt. So we have new organograms in the Ministries submitted since August. We have contours of positions that are complete. These are areas that have never occurred in the public administration.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u65	Weren't there any contours?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u66	No, there were no contours. They're getting ready and the end of the month will all be visible in front of you. And then to discuss whether we were doing well or not. So all this is done together, it's done in this time. Of course, as we told the people of ADED and the employees, we are here to discuss imperfections together. And here is the Greek Parliament to discuss them and to talk about imperfections. So this amendment that comes to solve this problem of 2016 came only to speed up and simplify the process of evaluating officials for this year. It doesn't alter the law, it doesn't have a punishment. He relieves the employee of all responsibility and bureaucratic fighting. It reminds the executives who are in positions of responsibility, the self-evident obligation, that you cannot be in charge today, not to assess your staff and again claim to be in charge. That's not all, we didn't remember all of a sudden. The evaluation of us has no punishment and is proved in the law itself. Nor did the trade unions object to the law, because it is an assessment which has no penalties, is three hundred sixty degrees, etc. Let's not talk about it. The evaluation of the officials has been carried out in the Greek state since 1833. And when it happened, when it was not, depending on the governments, and depending on the clienteles and the rospherics. It is certain that evaluations have not been carried out in the first memorandum years. In the PASOK-New Democracy conflict, no evaluation has been made, and that is why the deadlock has been created which we are going to resolve today and overcome to get out of the way. Because the reforms are not coming back. You can't do that. Reforms are ahead. So that's where we are. I repeat and I'll be done. The evaluation of employees is a transparent, objective, meritable system. He's got all the guarantees. The law lays down and safeguards the words I'm talking about. They're not empty words in the air. I believe that it will go ahead and be completed, because it will also be understood by the civil servants that many times such a type of treatment without arguments fuels social automation. It's not helping. They should also consider their trade unions if the interests of civil servants are served and if they come to give authority to the public or if such a attitude is directed against them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u67	Thank you to the Minister for Administrative Reconstruction, Mr. Olga Gerovalis. We shall now proceed to the list of speakers in principle. The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. Every two-three speakers will be involved and one or two parliamentary representatives will be involved. We are starting with Mr. Ioannis Micholonnakis, MP of SYRIZA. Here, Mr. Micholonnakis, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u68	Thank you, Mr President. We need to talk a little bit about today's bill. We have seen from the major and minor opposition to sending fire to other things, leaving the essence of a bill that is very - very serious. It facilitates research into prosecution with a cross-border dimension and gathers evidence. In other words, it is a legal act that preserves freedom, security and justice. There is mutual recognition and provision is made for the issue, transmission and enforcement with respect for individual rights. The European investigative order shall be issued in the context of either a criminal procedure or a procedure which initiates administrative proceedings for acts before a court for criminal proceedings or proceedings which initiate judicial authorities in three ways. It shall also be allowed for legal persons for criminal offences. It shall establish two bodies as an issuing authority, the judicial authority and any other authority, pre-examination, as an investigational customs authority. The European search order shall be issued either on its own initiative or at the request of the suspect. The Greek issuing authority may also request the assistance of other Greek authorities. The competent authority in Greece shall be the prosecutor at his place of responsibility. There are now grounds for non-recognition or non-implementation of the European research mandate by the executing authority and reasons for postponement. It's about tax, bank, customs crimes. It can also bring legal means against the European research mandate. There is a duty to observe confidentiality, otherwise there are specific sanctions. This is where democracy, in the end, seems to be the law. The costs of the European mandate are borne by the Greek Authority. The costs of transferring the person to and from the executing State shall also be borne by the States thereof. A witness or expert shall be considered by teleconferencing or by any other audiovisual means. The state of implementation of the European research mandate is given the opportunity to withdraw the confidentiality of telecommunications. There is also the possibility of a European research mandate for temporary measures to prevent destruction, transformation, removal, transfer, disposal of evidence. As far as the amendments are concerned, the government will clearly proceed to the evaluation. The Minister responsible has already laid the basis. Clearly, as far as justice is concerned, the extension of a law gives solutions. As far as the suggestion made by Mr Famelos about the forest maps is concerned, he has also made clear the latest doubts that exist. And don't forget, as far as the issue is concerned, that the situation existed between 1928 and 1986. Then he changed. In essence, however, it does not bring any change, simply respects the rulings of the European Court of Justice and facilitates people there to live more harmoniously and nothing else. It is something we are overreacting for, without substance. And that is why I believe that the ANELs should re-see this case and vote in favour of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, Mr. Micheloannakis, MP of SYRIZA. Mr Mavroudis Voridis has the floor now. Here, Mr. Voridis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u70	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Let me begin with warm congratulations for coming from the Step of the House to my allies at the Ministry of Health, where real polls take place. And the IAEA, in the elections held, from four seats, went to seven, to eleven. These are 'Commonview' polls and not others. This explains, ladies and gentlemen, to come to a proposed amendment which the Deputy Minister for Health has prompted me to accept - the reason why the extension is being requested, namely the postponement of the elections to medical clubs. Because the government fears the results of these elections and has every reason to prolong and avoid drinking this bitter glass. Because doctors are waiting to vote and it is certain that they have many messages to send to the government in these elections. That is why the elections are constantly postponed, so that we can avoid receiving the message and save 'Commonview'. But here's the unions, here's the ADEDY, here's society, here's the medical clubs, here's everyone who sends the right messages to the government, and the government's unable to receive them. Most importantly, the bill. The incorporation of the directive, which is crucial for Europe's fight against terrorism, is very important. These provisions are very important. They could really be the subject of a broad and serious debate, but it is, unfortunately, overshadowed by the amendments which also have their particular significance and importance. So I come directly to the amendments, because on others, even though much could be said, unfortunately I do not have time. What is the government's ongoing choice? The continuous and permanent release of hard criminals, on the line of the Paradise Law. With what argument? Not with what has been said in the committee, not with the argument of a structured anti-crime policy, but only with the argument of decongestion of prisons. They don't fit in prisons, they don't have human detention conditions. But it doesn't matter if they've been punished and if they've been criminalized. Decongestion even if hard criminals come out, even if they are murdered, even if they continue their criminal activity without any criterion, without any assessment of their personality, without knowing whether they have been reformed. All of this is absolutely irrelevant. It's about dismantling prisons. Question: What is this anti-crime that imposes such a policy? None! No one in science has ever supported such things. There is supposed to be an improvement that Mr Kontonis is doing here, and while the previous regulation did not actually pose, it did not differentiate crimes, now there are crimes that are differentiated and do not allow for a beneficial calculation, that is, the reductions that exist here. What are these crimes? They are excluded: homicide, predicament, slave trade, trafficking in human beings, child smuggling, rape, abuse of embezzlement, seduction, abuse of minors in embezzlement, pornography of minors, archaeology, trafficking, imprisonment with minors, robbery with a weapon. These are the ones excluded from the beneficial calculation. Question now: convicted of drug trafficking in life? Oh, no! He can use beneficial devices.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u71	That was your law!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u72	Life sentenced to public fraud? Oh, no! And he's in the favorable provisions. Criminal organizations? Out! Terrorist organisations? Out! So, ladies and gentlemen, a terrorist asking him, "Have you repented? You've done murders. Have you repented of this?" It responds: 'Not at all and I will continue'. Yes, sir. He's out. He's out of jail. These are the settings. And by the way, these rules, the exceptions that are introduced, are not introduced for everyone, but they are already excluded from those which have a beneficial time to count today. And I ask: is that an anti-crime policy? Are we going to talk about protecting society? Are we going to talk about protecting the victims? Are we going to talk about social peace? But there's not even that argument. I have heard here last time in the committee an argument - and I disagree with it - that the penalties are heavy and should be reduced. Here, in the explanatory statement, there is not even that, because it says that what is of great interest is excessive crowding. That's the criterion. So, here's clear what's going on. But I come to something else. The provision relating to the amendment of the Code of Civil Procedure is, in fact, about the issue that, in order not to hide behind our finger, concerns the possibility of a new decision, notwithstanding the decisions already taken or compliance, in the wording of which it is made, with decisions of the Court of Human Rights. Here, let's be a little aware. There is no longer any possibility for the government to come and find majority voting in the Greek Parliament if it does not have a solid majority. Clear things! You've done it many times. Right now this story is stopping. You're coming with a parliamentary majority. You will come as a government as a whole agreed by the parliamentary groups. Not to have any internal disagreements, you are supposed to hear from the rapporteur of the Independent Greeks, Mr Papachristopoulos, to withdraw the order - he told you sweetly, with a lot of love - but you are relying on looking to support your legislative initiatives, the opposition parties, the opposition parties. So that makes no sense, it is not going to be done, it is not going to be accepted, regardless of - I stress - whatever the contents of your arrangements are. This practice ceases, it ends today. You will form parliamentary majorities and after you have formed your internal majority, you will come to make a proposal to Parliament. The rest of this is a long way to go, because much can be said, but I say again that the rest is a long way away. The third amendment, which is also completely unacceptable, concerns the question of the resolution of the disagreements of the Commissioners of the Court of Auditors on the visa of financial orders. So far, where have these differences been resolved? Scale level. And the Minister brings us a change: to go to the station. Why is that?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u73	Sooner or later.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u74	Just for a simple reason. Why don't you check this process and because your whole case has spectacularly come out in the contractors' case, now you have to give a solution to the money payment orders. No other legal basis exists and in fact this is yet another construction built in the measures of trying to manipulate justice, in which you systematically do. We all know that things are clear and clear. At the anti-criminal level, they are destructive, and criminals are out killing people. You have a huge responsibility for this policy that you are pursuing. At the level of justice a plan for manipulation is systematically followed with specific methods and an institutional nature. And from there on, it is clear that at least we are not going to contribute to going and coming to 'fish' a majority in Parliament. Either you have a majority within the government or if you do not, Parliament should vote against any legislative initiative. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u75	Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn Mr Christos Pappas has the floor for 12 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u76	Before I place myself on the bill, I would like to make a brief reference to the environmental disaster caused by Saronics, which has changed to dead seas. There is still a lot of 'why'. The case of Saronic pollution is a great crime and for one further reason. Because it happened in one - against us should be protected and fully exploited - marine archaeological site, the Salamis area. The question of the submersion of the ship 'Saint Zone II' is not only environmental, but also political and economic. And, unfortunately, there was no resignation, even for the government's lost price. And while the government, even too late, is supposed to be a sensitive government in terms of ecology, environment, etc. - he was trying to deal with the matter, at least, in communications, the guilty were found. And they were found by the economist government minister, Georgios Tsironi, who said on SKAI TV the immaterial, what only one Minister of Government SYRIZA - ANEL could say, that the guilty one is society, the "hard" society, reminding us all of the black and white movies of the 1960s. The crime, ladies and gentlemen, in the Saronics, is about the abscession of post-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-municipality, one of the abscesses of the post-mortem-mortem-multi-mortem-multi-multi-multi-municipalism, which is called the "multi-multi-multi-multi-multemority" and "b-multi-multi-multi-mult-mult-mult-mult-t-mult-mult-mult-mult-mult-t-mult-t-ppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppp This dirt, this abscess, like others that agitate the political and economic life of the Greeks, will cleanse the Golden Dawn. When we have the power, the place will fade and not just the Saronic. Now I'm coming to the current bill. You have brought here today a vicious amendment to a bill from the Ministry of Justice aimed at 'legalising' Turkish-syllables who exercise aggressive propaganda for the secession of our Thrace and its annexation to Turkey. In particular, the amendment provides that subparagraphs of Article 758(1) of the Code of Civil Procedure are added in order to request the revocation or reform of a final decision of inadmissible jurisdiction following the adoption of a final judgment of the European Court of Justice of Human Rights, which established an infringement of the right of the legal character of the procedure followed or a provision of substantive law of the European Convention on Human Rights. The Article lays down a transitional provision. That's how you write in.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u77	Where's the favor for the unions? And where does Greek justice commit?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u78	Minister, you'll talk and you'll talk. And you are right, because at first reading the amendment seems innocent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u79	And it is.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u80	And it is. We'll see, though. In fact, however, it 'photographs' a case and it is the case of the illegal organization, the organization called 'Turkish Union of Xanthi'. This organization had refused to recognize the Marios Ice on the grounds that the term Turkish is unacceptable. Logic, since the only Turks in Thrace are consulate officials. The Turkish-famous agents had then appealed to the European Court of Human Rights. And there, with the contribution of a man of the system, a man of Simitis and Soros, of the well-known Rosakis, managed to make a decision that says they violated their right to establish the club. So that some reasons for conspiracy theories don't do, because I said Rosakis, Rosakis is a member of the board of directors of the in Greece's Soros Foundation and at the same time he was also on the party's listing of POTAMI, which, as you know, is the party of Simitis in Greece. Marios Ice rejected this judgment of the Court of Justice and the case closed on the ground that the judgment of the Court of Justice is not a new element which necessitates the revocation of the case. That makes perfect sense, since no one has been denied the establishment of a club, as the Rosaki decision says, but they have been banned from using the name, a misleading, false and nationally harmful term in the name of the club. Now, with your amendment, with the amendment of the SYRIZA Government - ANEL, the officials of the Turkish consulate are entitled to return to the European Court of Human Rights, with the request for the final recognition and application of the previous judgment of the Court of Justice, because you are also saying of an earlier decision.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u81	You're wrong. That's not what he's saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u82	You are effectively opening up the coast of Halos to create dozens of "Turkish" clubs and press these clubs for separating national territory. And after the recognition of the "Turkish Union of Xanthi" I know what will happen. The various minority groups will also stand up for Macedonian associations, which will be set up by some Skopje. And then there will be the claim for recognition of the "Macedonian" minority. This is how you will also be entitled to vindicate as a left-wing government the struggles of the EAMulgarians and the gangsters asking for autonomous Macedonia and Thrace. Good for you! We, Minister, do not hand over Thrace to the tourists and their domestic associates. The Golden Dawn says a great 'no'. We since 2012 have been in the Greek Parliament with stable and irresistible positions on all national issues. In fact, it was updated at the National Council of the People's League, which met on 17 December last year, and we decided clearly and unequivocally on the Turkish threat that we as a state, as Greece, must take a clear position, with a Greek casus bellilli, which is voted on by the Greek Parliament, to create a barrier to the claims of Turks and Erdogan to the Aegean, to set up a fence in Erdogan's plan to flood with millions of illegal immigrants in our country, which does, and we consider it self-evident, our right to extend our territorial waters to twelve miles, as well as international laws and international customs. At the same time, we must denounce the Komotini Turks, the Turkish propaganda which is taking place and the pressure the Turkish consulate has on the Greeks there. Finally, the Turkish consulate in Komotini must close this snake. It has far exceeded the role of a diplomatic mission by Turkish officials. So this snake called the 'Turkish consulate of Komotini' must be closed. With regard to another national issue, one big issue, Golden Dawn has remained unbelievable since the beginning of the 1990s. It was even the title of the first card in our newspaper, which says "no compromise for our Macedonia". And on the right and the left you have agreed, in the interpretation of the Greek people, for a name with geographical identification, which is unacceptable. It was Macedonia, it is and it will be Greek alone. Moreover, we also demand aggressive Greek policy. In other words, we demand the official recognition of the national minority living in Skopje, the Greek national minority living in Skopje, whose existence was publicly confessed and then the President of Skopje himself, Gligorov. We also demand that the Greek Government demonstrate the right attitude and give an appropriate response to Albanian aggression, which has shown all its unaltered and barbaric face to the Greek people of Chimara and not only. Mr Contonis, you must say this to your colleagues too - finally implement a national foreign policy. You cannot say that the 1922 Treaty of Lausanne is in force, that is to say, to choose conditions according to the beam, and not to apply the Corfu Protocol of 17 May 1914. The Corfu Protocol is in force. It's signed by both the Albanians and the Great Powers. We must therefore demand, as a counterweight to the aggressive Albanian policy it is conducting against the minority and not just the activation of the Corfu Protocol. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I would like some more time. I won't answer. I'd like to get a piece of my dentistry. To conclude, I would like to say that we, the Greek nationalists, are denouncing any talks that have taken place, or even on a Greek initiative now, please relaunch the problem of our Cyprus. This problem is the occupation and invasion of a foreign state, in accordance with the UN's official decisions. So we believe that Cyprus should remain, at least at the moment, a single sovereign state - I say at the moment, because for us Cyprus was, is, is and will be Greece - and that Greekism should not be confined to a part of the Greater Island. That is to say, not to be a community from an independent state. Any such solution, i.e. any bizonal, bicommunal, federation, etc., is partition and is nationally unacceptable. With regard to the problem, the national issue of immigration policy, the Golden Dawn has submitted to the House in March 2016 a law to deal with illegal immigration. Ask him. If you want him, we'll give him to your lockers. It is a law that will solve the hands of the Greek state. The invasion of our homeland, the illegal entry of foreigners, should be regarded as a criminal offence, and strict squats should be imposed. We must also impose strict contour penalties on third-country nationals exercising their profession and, of course, complaining of your own open borders policy, which bring us to this situation in which they bring us. And finally, our borders to be guarded by the Greek Army, the Greek Air Force, the Navy, not every FRONTEX, which in fact facilitates the entry of these illegals. Ladies and gentlemen, the Golden Dawn has greatly disturbed the system. And I refer to the badly so-called 'Dexia' - let us put it in introductory terms, you yourself have renounced the term - and I refer to the left - to you systemics. Golden Dawn has been annoying the system since 2012 and continues to disturb the system for its firm faith in the pillars of national life, that is, at home, in religion, in the family, in this tripartite that you as genuine Bolsheviks fight it in every way. Stay quiet and have faith in the Greek people and finally let them realize that the only guarantee and only hope for a great overthrow is the modern, popular, revolutionary movement of the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u83	We shall now proceed with the Member of the Democratic Alliance, Mr Giannis Koutsoukos, who has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill with the amendments tabled by the government offers a criticism of how this government legislates and governs it. And I am not talking about the incorporation of a directive which we have shown, contrary to what SYRIZA has done in the past as opposition, that we have a fixed line in relation to European directives. The first issue, ladies and gentlemen, is what this government is ruling with. Does it govern with the declaration of power that passes through the memorandums, is it releasing the positions and making a residence policy to earn time or govern with a government partner reliant on extreme right-wing attitudes and opinions that are at the expense of human rights, which are at the expense of freedoms? This policy a la carte cannot continue. That's why we said we had to put an end to it. In other words, we cannot, on the one hand, go through the memorials and, on the other, appeal to the opposition, the Democratic Reconciliation in this respect, to pass on the provisions relating to the adaptation of Greek law in relation to human rights, in relation to diversity, in relation to citizenship and so on. And unfortunately, Mr Ministers, the way you legislate once again gives rise to nationalist misconduct in this Chamber. You heard that before. Ladies and gentlemen, we have stated that by the provision of the law, and in particular of Articles 40 and 41, we are in agreement on the substance, because we respect the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights and want our country to be adapted to the achievements of European legal culture. We believe that, with these acquired and international law, we must solve our problems, because alas if we leave them to the nationalists of Greece, Turkey or to the Nazis still present in some European countries. And I hear this Nazi delirium here at the same time as a trial, Minister, who is waiting and asking when the people will end, for a crime that has been committed by certain Nazis. That is my first point. My second remark is about Mr. Famello who left. Another extension, another attempt to delimit the settlements. When we said here in this Step that all settlements appear as forest maps, because the government did not update it, it tried to load them into self-government. Now he told us that self-government was adapted. But he told us - and I did not understand it correctly and asked colleagues there next door - that he would have another law on the interpretation of the densities. This government is evidently unable to handle the matter of forest maps. It has created huge turmoil throughout Greece. And it is not an argument for a government policy that 16% - as Mr Famelos said - appear as forested fields. Because these were agricultural parcels grown by our fellow citizens in mountain and mountainous areas, which then migrated to the age of urbanisation, and were apparently forested. But they are parcels and claim them. I now come to the third issue concerning the evaluation of civil servants. Mrs Gerovas, who told us that the government has a reform plan in Stepma. "Reformation" and "SYRIZA" are words incompatible, ladies and gentlemen. And he described the vision of administrative reform and put Mr Tsipras on it and, with the agreement of the French advisers, the ones that we used to spend in the past. You remember what you did when a German had come here - he was a State Secretary for Labour - to advise the Greek Government on reforms. You cannot do this because you have in practice failed what you say you will do. Mr Vernardakis - I do not know where he is at the moment and what he is doing - seized the Greek Parliament's vote by changing the article of the register bill, which he predicted - as the government's rapporteur and rhetoric said - that we will go to the selected members of the General Secretariat. And it changed at the last minute, replacing the Secretary-General with the Administrative Directors and the Secretaries, and we filled the public administration with an additional structure of thematics and substitutes and directors. And this register that some worthwhile civil servants have come to - and they have been evaluated - has not worked to date. Not one of them has been posted by that record. Why? Because you have to appoint the partylors. And you're going to talk to us about colonization? The choice of the supervisors with your own law has not been made. Evaluation is your misfortune failure. We'd warned you from this step forward that you're passing from one end to the other. We said, when Mr Mitsotakis brought the evaluation with the Gauss curve of population distribution, that we cannot have 15% good and 15% bad saves and well warned that this system will fail. And he failed. That is why, Mrs Gerovas, no evaluation has been carried out since 2014. It was earlier with the old system, not that it could not happen, Mrs. Gerovali. And we said yours would fail too. And were the civil servants, who responded by 90% to the AEDU strike? Have you seen another strike get that kind of a hit? You failed because you couldn't convince those who were motivated to prejudge the chiefs who collected the paperwork to produce the files on public disciplinary staff for fake degrees. Because you cultivated the logic of the minor effort, of the levelling-up of everything. You can't convince them. I have seen the ADED delegation today. They are talking about abolishing the trade union right, because beyond this arrangement that punishes anyone who will discipline his trade union body, they know that you have on the skates and change of Law 1264, which states that the New Democracy will vote on, here you have allies. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, a system of evaluation that the public needs, because it has sufficient staff - may have left the generation that has put Greece into the European Union, may now go slowly - and the generation that has put Greece into EMU, but it has competent staff, has educated people, experienced and honest - wants incitement, it wants to convince, it wants a planning plan, a description of tasks and leadership. There's no such thing as that. That is why this militaristic inspiration to punish the employees will fail and that is why we will vote against it. I called today for my meeting with ADED to do what you did not do. What have you got drunk for, ladies and gentlemen? You have drunken yourself to bring the amendment when the debate on the bill is over, so that we do not call on the HEDEN to tell us its opinion. There must therefore be an initiative for a wide-ranging dialogue and social consensus on the need to upgrade public administration and involve staff in a project that is credible and effective. Obviously this government, in other words you, cannot do that. It will do so by another government that believes in social dialogue, as the Democratic Reconciliation believes. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u85	The speaker of the Golden Dawn, Mr Ioannis Rabbit, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u86	Thank you, Mr President. Let's start with a story that's probably unknown to the general public and to a lot of people in here, though it's been done a few days ago, but it's talking about Greece, so it's not worth hearing. There's one football team, the PAE Pontius, and there's another football team, Apollo Pontius. So the PAE Pontius a few days ago officially presented its football team's jersey. It was like a logo - let's say it as advertising, because of course it's not advertising, but the reality - a slogan that said they don't forget the genocide of the Pontius. Then, seeing this thing of the Greek state and the Football Federation ran to forbid the particular football club to compete in the category it is fighting. They made the presentation of the jersey, people with all formality and great joy, because they talked about what their ancestors have suffered. So the Greek Football Federation with orders from international organizations, the International Football Federation, and forbade this group - I repeat - to the PAE Pontius, to take part in its last week's football match, on Sunday that passed us, as was banned by Apollo Pontius, who had a similar appearance, a similar shirt, to record this slogan by the "Greek" government of rajas and submissives. But it comes to the Greek Parliament today, the same government, which has banned the Pontians from talking about genocide, which has been suffered, and it tells us that in an appeal to a decision of the Ice Bay, which had met on 23 September 2004 and said that there is no Turkish union of Xanthi, this corrupt political system of the rings, rags and submissives is coming with a specific amendment that does not even accept the vote of those who are with you, those who have supported you in so many scandals that you have done, to pass this amendment in order to open the ferry door and to recognise that within our Thrace, which is so many hits, there is a Turkish minority. If you are not racquets, if you are not national brokers, then tell us what you are! Submissives and jungles of the system! I will only read to you what the decision said, some parts of the decision of the Ice Arena. I repeat that this is a decision of the Ice Bay on 23 September 2004. He said: "The above purpose of this particular organisation is confronted with the abovementioned conventions signed in Lausanne and ratified by law, since it is unequivocally attempting to show the existence in Greece of a territory of a western Turkish minority, whereas the conventions - meaning the Treaty of Lausanne - only the existence of a religious Muslim minority is recognised". This is not what Golden Dawn says in the year 2004, but in Greece only the Golden Dawn defends these things. The decision and the reasoning are as follows: ‘This association is involved by its chairman in the non-recognised organisation of coordination or advisory committee of a Turkish minority’. Another union, which is not recognized and which opens the way from this moment on to being recognized, "which meets" - says the decision of the Ice Marios - "frequently in the areas of the Turkish union of Xanthi or the respective union in Komotini". "The same union" - says the Arion Ice, rather than the Golden Dawn - "participates in conferences of the Federation of Western Thrace, which highlights as the objective of maintaining a timeline of supposedly Turkish minority in Thrace". What are you doing, funny? What are you doing, rags? Marios Ice continues as follows: "Only the surname "Turkish" in the name of the union, unlike the above-mentioned conditions, does not only contribute to the peaceful coexistence of the citizens of the region, which is necessary for the general good of both Greek communities, Muslim and Christian, but also to the contrary raises a non-existent minority problem of Turks." Do you hear them? Minister, do you hear this stuff? So if this amendment goes through, you will be written as the new Nightmare and officially, because you have been unofficially to the Greek people. I challenge all of you because many of these parties have even some Members here - because you take them for vote - who say Turks. They're saying Turks some MPs in here! So you also open the door to them to declare that they are Turks, as it had taken place last year, in 2015, in 2016, if I remember correctly, when we rebelled like Golden Dawn, because we said that SYRIZA MP is photographed under the flags of supposedly independent Western Thrace with the hemiery. There was a New Democracy President, the right-wing 'patriots', the patriots' patriots and the President called us back then, who was Nikitas Kaklamanis "you can't" - says - 'You can make a parliamentary statement.' It was therefore for the New Democracy and for the Greek Parliament a Member of the Greek Parliament if he said that there was no Turkish minority in Thrace. But that's exactly what you guys do now. This is the plan you have, step by step. In order for people to learn and say, we had made it as Golden Dawn moves, we moved legally, because in a legitimate way we would desolate you - and we had closed four illegal kindergartens operating in Xanthi, because they had the definition of "Turkish kindergartens", which was forbidden. So we made the right moves and those - except for introductory - Turkish kindergartens were closed. What we have achieved, then, as Golden Dawn, using the laws of the Greek state, by accepting to the end the Constitution of the state, which only you do not finally accept and say to us that we are fascists - we claim with the Constitution that we win the law - you come today to recognize them. So you are the traitors of 2017. You are our country's traitors. You open a door - remember the conversation I'm telling you, you all know it here and you don't randomly do it - and you will create too many associations, unions and anything else you want in Thrace, which will be called Turkish now, after all that you do. It's unacceptable and embarrassing. To finish this - because we had a lot of issues to say, but we do not have time to talk about - we call on all the parties in the opposition, what still has a patriotism - I do not know if you mind the word 'patriotism', you may be sad, you may consider it degrading - to leave the vote. Golden Dawn, despite all the disagreements it has with the whole political system, calls on all parties to withdraw and let these shameful politicians of SYRIZA pass through and vote alone for this shameful and unwilling amendment. I'll write you history. You'll be humiliated once more. Finally, I will tell you that, as a very great Greek said, when the state is against the nation, then we, the Golden Dawn, shout: "Down the state, live the nation!"
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u87	Mr Athanasios Theocharopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u88	Mr President, before I begin, I would say that democracy has ways of institutionalising this nationalist delirium and you had to intervene before the process and not allow this nationalist delirium in this Parliament. Democracy will win, fascism will not win. Finally, there are institutional ways of dealing with this in our democracy, so that we do not again allow such a reason for nationalisticism that is outside democratic rules.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u89	Be careful not tossing a pantyhose.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u90	Not that, Mr. Pappa, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u91	Mr President, the Golden Dawn jury spoke before me. Prior to me, the defendant spoke!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u92	Well, he tore it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u93	You're still ungrateful!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u94	Minister, the trial has indeed been delayed and it will have to be completed quickly.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u95	You're gonna smash a pantyhose!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u96	That is why you must take initiatives in this direction, because we have already heard subjectives speak with such a reason and one that is against democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u97	You're the one who's excruciated!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u98	Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the incorporation into the national legal order of the directive on the European mandate for investigation into criminal matters. We could, of course,, because there is consensus, focus our debate, for example, on the safeguards for its proper implementation. Instead, we are saying a few words again today about the directive, which we have said that we are certainly positive about harmonising legislation with the directive, as we are in all the European rules, as I shall say then. Instead, however, we are faced once again with the government's inability to plan and implement reforms, and that is why it makes amendments with which we also have a radical disagreement. In this context, I will not say much about the directive today. I do not think that this is the crucial issue with which they have been discussed. I am therefore going directly to some of the amendments, which I consider to be crucial. You are therefore bringing an amendment to supplement the provisions of the National Register of Public Administration Officers and in particular to the evaluation of civil servants. You explicitly state that the staff raters, in order to participate in selection and placement procedures, must have fulfilled the obligation to assess their subordinates. What exactly are you doing? You are actually blackmailing evaluators to carry out an assessment if they want to claim responsibility. We are clearly in favour of evaluation, but a transparent and reliable assessment. You, your government, do you find this way to cover up your massive failure to evaluate structures and staff? This is how you find yourself unblocking the process, as from March to today, is it going very slowly? From the vote of Mr.4369/2016 until today, less than 20% of civil servants have accepted to receive the evaluation brochures. It is indeed questionable how and with the methods it is introduced, whether the promoted evaluation is linked to the need for scientific and professional support for public officials and not to a mechanism that does not actually achieve the result. What is certain is the lack of credibility in the way the state operates, which is causing reactions, that is to say, in the permanent assessment of civil servants and its link to the fastest growth with which we agree, but it is not actually done. I have heard Mrs Gerovalis, the Minister responsible, and I am surprised to hear that she has never worked as she should. Very rightly, Mr Koutsoukos told you before, Mr Koutsoukos, that he is probably confused over the years and has confused the governments of previous years. In 2012-2013, the evaluation and mobility took place and you were against mobility, colleagues of SYRIZA. You were all occupied and you caused the occupations and there was no single redundancy and mobility worked for the benefit of civil servants. Of course later, in 2014, we first said that the system proposed at that time by the Minister for Administrative Reform, Mr Mitsotakis, with 15% compulsory to take the negative grade - and we reminded him of it a moment ago - was something that will never work and disagree. But we are telling you that what you are bringing is the other side of Mr Mitsotakis' own currency. That's actually it. I heard the Minister say there were no job profiles, no organizational plans. You probably have confused or haven't seen exactly what had happened in the past few years. Of course, I have heard that the customer system in general, instead of answering why you are broadening the client system today, because you are not dealing with the pathogens that exist today and why you are creating new pathogens of the party system. The course, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, of the whole procedure is assumed to be at the heart of interest and creditors in the third assessment, despite the fact that the Minister claims that this is not a Memorandumary obligation, but a constitutional requirement. This should not, however, be a matter for discussion with the partners. We should have created the appropriate evaluation institutions on our own, objective and fair evaluation, which will be accepted by the majority of the social group and which will be able to function in real and pragmatic terms. Unfortunately, we are once again in apologizing for things that we should have solved as a country alone. Let us be absolutely honest. The SYRIZA government. - If this crucial question of evaluation remains binding on the logic of the minor effort and results in disciplinary measures. You do not believe in reforms, nor can you plan and implement them. You're breaking your own laws. After forgetting that your party fought the mobility of civil servants and the evaluation in 2012 and 2013, you also confirmed the complete inability to implement and implement the provisions of your own law, Law 4440/2016, due to failure to complete the electronic organiza tions of the Ministries. Of course, who's still the big patient? Public administration and this affects all policies horizontally. Finally, an integrated system of procedures and how to select and develop the staff capacity of the public administration is needed. Reform and reform are needed to change a system by structural means. It's not a simple setup. Let's clear up the concepts. On the one hand, we have the deregulations that the New Democracy often means, and on the other hand, we also have the reforms that you in SYRIZA are going through and serve a variety of customer relations. Of course, you call them reforms, nonetheless. Unfortunately, despite the bills that have passed and despite the individual amendments, there is still a need for a structural change in the system, because the conditions for a substantial reform are still lacking, such as the implementation of principles of transparency, democracy, efficiency, the revision of the relationship between a party and a party, the rationalisation of resources. The result of this whole situation is a deficit of confidence. How do you think citizens will trust the evaluation system? By simply blackmailing that if they do not evaluate, will they not have the right to participate in the selection of heads? This is how trust in our times will be gained? Or by tearing them apart? Or would leaving the next of the provisions of the amendment to be applied, after having assured everyone who supported you? It seems that the government, apart from late discovering the necessity of evaluation and mobility, has its own interpretative dictionary, which obviously only understands. I would also like to talk about another amendment to amend the provisions of forestry legislation. I have also heard Mr Dannelly, who has rightly asked the relevant Minister a number of questions. Some answers have only been given, not all of them. On the question of extending the deadlines for submission, of course, we agree, but we can only note that the ongoing extensions show that there has been no complete design and weighting of implementation difficulties and problems for citizens from the outset. The most problematic aspect of the amendment, however, is that the adoption by a Ministerial Decision of 2016, which the fifth section of the Council of State considered to be uncertain, because it violates two articles of the Constitution and because only by a Presidential Decree can the arrangements contained therein be adopted. As the environmental organisations, WWF and other bodies observe, these regulations promote the horizontal exemption from forest maps and the arbitrary settlements tariff including forests, forests or reservoirs. We have heard the Minister's explanations and they do not solve the problem as a whole. Promises are again given for a new bill that will solve them, without mentioning anything specific. Minister, you mentioned the fires and stressed that there is an anomaly and destabilization plan. You said that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u99	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u100	You said there's probably a plan of anomaly.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u101	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u102	You'll fix me then. We said then...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u103	No, I haven't said that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u104	Mr. Contonis, with Mr. Polakis, you said...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u105	Don't put words in my mouth that I haven't said.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u106	I'm listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u107	I said there's a plan for my place...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u108	For Zakynthos.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u109	Yes, for Zakynthos, because we were seeing how the fires were done.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u110	I get it. That's what I mean. I won't blame you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u111	But there is, it's obvious. Others are interpretations.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u112	When you said, then, that you saw that there might be a plan in your region of anomaly and destabilization, I had told you something in public. I had said instead of the disclaimer of responsibility, which has been done many times in the government, to do something left at last, to stop the charismatic regulations on arbitrary matters. So to stop your government from going through some charismatic arrangement - as was the case in the past, I would like to be precise in what I say about arbitrary matters - so that the arbitrary ones can be legalised. These should be stopped here and now, because these are often known to those who exploit these facts. This is a crucial issue and we are dealing with it in a transitional arrangement today and we are dealing with it too many times in the bills. So if we want to stop the motives behind these actions, which you have referred to in a way - if you would like me - by giving a definitive answer to the problem as if you were not due at the time, but in any case if we want to resolve it, we have to move forward. We are, of course, accustomed to this government and, in case the decision of the Supreme Court is taken, to respect environmental legislation on a case-by-case basis. That is what environmental organisations are saying on this issue, and that it is against the distinction of powers. To close - and I will take as much time as I have in dentistry, I will not take any more time, Mr President - let me make some points on the amendment to the Code of Civil Procedure as regards the decision of the European Court of Human Rights. Of course we agree with the substance, namely we have the firm view that we respect the judgments of the European Courts. Obviously, this amendment also concerns the sensitive case in our country, which concerns the Union of Xanthi, which the Greek courts rejected on the grounds that it created a risk to public order. The case came to the European Court of Justice in 2005 and 2008. With one thought, the European Court of Justice decided and, of course, in 2012, the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe, which is the body responsible, calls on the Greek authorities to recognise this organisation and other organisations. In December 2014, the decision was notified to Greece with the three related appeals. After that, obviously, our country will have to adapt. That's the point. With the government majority, Minister, you will have to bring this decision and any decision you have in the plenary session. It is not possible to continue what happened in the cohabitation pact, what happened in the mosque, what happened in too many cases so far, that you do not have the government majority, come here and ask us - not to ask you to take the view - that without a government majority, you will receive support on these issues. Finally, the government will assume its responsibilities. Mr. Tsipras made it clear to the IGC that he considers Mr. Kammens to be the patriotic centre-right and that he does not cause him any problems. I imagine he probably means that they only vote together on human rights issues rather than on human rights issues. In any case, this case of a la carte legislature cannot go on, do what you want and at some point simply do what you do not have a majority on human rights issues to count on the votes of the Democratic Incorporation, the River and possibly other forces. This cannot continue. We told you you'd have to deal with the government majority. Together you're running, together you decide, of course, when something comes here with the government majority decision, we take a clear position. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately at all levels of time we are lagging behind. You are judging policies and logic of the past, but you are following them today. Activate on a case-by-case basis. Reflexes remain too late. Developments always make progress and we seek solutions at the last minute, which are fateful, and often, as we see in many issues today, they fail to extinguish the fire. This must be stopped so that we can give the Greek people a better perspective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u113	Thank you, too. The speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Ioannis Delis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u114	The essence of today's bill is that the European Union's multi-faceted repressive mechanism is much more simply being strengthened, of course, in the context of its overall response. But there is also a provision in the bill in which, as a JRC, we want to stand in particular. So here - look at how time brings them - this bill has also been tabled, and the amendment by Gerovassilis of L.4369/2016 on the evaluation of civil servants, which has been incorporated as its thirty-sixth article. This is an amendment by which the government leaves the words sweetly and takes the punishment bolt, in order to implement the so-called assessment of the State, namely, the State's reactionary control of civil servants, so that anti-grass policy can be applied by the state mechanism. It is thus confirmed once again that anti-population policy is always accompanied by authoritarianism and is constantly resorting to tightening up the legal framework. All this, of course, occurs as soon as it meets the organized popular reactions. This is exactly what happened with L.4369, also known as the Bernardakis Act, a law which attempts to adapt and respond even more to the current needs of the capitalists, who are the real owners of this state, as well as any capitalist state, but a law that encounters a number of difficulties in its implementation by the militant attitude of the majority of civil servants. The evaluation of civil servants is a key lever and a tool for the armouring, reorganising and modernising this urban state, in order to serve more effectively the interests of the few, the capital states and their system, and of course not the many, the popular majority which at the same time breaks them down in taxes, carpets and work to the deep ageing. With the amendment, Mr Gerovazis, the masks are falling. It concludes the story of the SYRIZA Government - ANEL on the allegedly unpunished nature of the evaluation of civil servants and is now openly attacking the "dracon" punishment on those civil servants who insist on fighting and resisting the anti-popular policy of a country of capitalist and therefore classic as its medal, which is attacking labour and popular rights with all its governments successively. So what does the government bring under the current provision for the implementation of the assessment in public, which is one of the basics of the third memorandum? So we don't forget. It is not enough for the Government to directly link the evaluation of civil servants to their wage cuts or to refer them to the question of dismissal, as specifically provided for by the combined application of Laws Nos.4354/2015 and No.4369/2016, i.e. an evaluation that she itself voted on, but is trying with the current provision to fully implement the whole of this reactive arsenal, which remains to a certain extent inert from the action of the movement. So it quite simply legislates the punishment of civil servants by excluding them from their further service development, first of all, of those officials of public administration, heads of government, directors and others, not first evaluate their existing civil servants, not in general, but on the basis of the reactionary criteria of the Bernardakis Act. What are these criteria? Vernardakis himself defines them as the main target of the public services, which is defined by the government, but also criteria such as the behaviour of civil servants inside and outside the service, the management of crises and others. But let's see this targeting a little closer. The objectives are not always set by general government policy? From the European Union's general anti-grass strategy? An anti-French policy, however, and a strategy of only anti-Flemish objectives can set state administrations. When, for example, it aims to self-finance the operation of hospitals, so that you do not give them a single euro from the budget, then the health assessment will be judged mainly by how hard it is for the operation of public hospitals, despite their availability and their heroic efforts to help patients. Does the aim of increasing the collection, say, of the Treasury, not mean the intensity of taxation, hunting for the collection of characters? Does the aim of the State budget not mean reduced expenditure on education and health? Does the aim of the balanced budgets of the municipalities not mean less and more expensive kindergartens, food and foul? The same will happen in the education for which the evaluation is being prepared, so that it can be more closely linked to the needs of business groups and their barbaric system. Targeting and efficiency of the state, then, for whom? For the people and their needs? Of course not. Just the chapter. To be able to gain more and more, grinding unobstructedly everywhere, stirring the state budget and bleating the people. That is why the evaluation is aimed not only at civil servants, but at all the people and their needs. The current government is therefore struggling in every way to achieve where the former have not been able. He confessed to it today, a moment ago by the Minister itself, when he accused previous governments that they did not proceed in time to assess. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. And with a great deal of courage and hypocrisy, he spoke tonight about the unpunished nature of the evaluation. When? While the government is getting to blackmail public administration officials and punish those who resist them. While the evaluation of SYRIZA, that is, meets the evaluation of Mitsotakis and the time that is before us another demonstration of their strategic coexistence. The movement now has the reason, without delusion and hallucinations. You must point to the heart of anti-popular politics, overthrowing every anti-popular measure. The JRC in this battle will, as always, be in the front line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u115	Thank you. We proceed with the independent MP George - Dimitrios Karras. Mr. Carras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u116	Thank you, Mr President. This is an opportunity once again to incorporate an important directive on the European research warrant. It's an interesting piece of legislation. But every time a directive is incorporated into Greek domestic law, we are now creating a boarding vehicle or, rather, you will allow me to smuggle a number of amendments that are not relevant to the main body of the law and are often delayed. I think that some of these amendments do not require much comment. For example, the return amounts of the Ministry of Health, the great rebate came and will come back. We're making savings in the state. On the question of the Court of Auditors, whether it will refer to the Commissioners' disagreement on the payment of an order on the step or section, let me consider it primarily internal, procedural, so as not to extend and make another comment.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u117	What about the order of the standard trial?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u118	Let the trial be applied, Mr Athanasios.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u119	No dialogue, if you like, Mr. Carras. Let's move!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u120	You're welcome, Mr. President. Let me refer to the pilot trial as well, since the matter has been raised. We know that the pilot trial has succeeded in the Council of State, but in the other courts it has not succeeded. So let me come back to my position. I was saying that what we should stand is the assessment for the year 2016, which, however, brings with it a pathology, which lies in the non-implementation of the Law on the Register of Officials. Should we not think on this point when a public administration reform could at least cut itself off from the blockade as a success? But it did not apply today. We see that even the way we assess it is still suffering today. Because if we had in the register some or others appointed in this way in the same way, we could also talk about an evaluation, which is indeed necessary in public administration, not in the form of the punishing of officials, but in the form of improving the performance of the same evaluations. That's useful. Of course, if I go further, I should like to refer to the provisions which have been incorporated, Articles 37 and 38, which are the well-known forest maps, the settlements. I don't want to say any more. I'll be up-to-date. What I wish and still wish at the first moment, and I go very far back to Mr.4280/2014, is, anyway, that this arrangement should work. The forest maps are designed to restore farmers. It's interesting, it's right, if you want. However, in the way in which it is to be ratified, we also see the weaknesses of legislation. I do not want to go into the logic of previous regulations, but it comes at one point today and the government goes on to say the famous 'economy'. You will allow me to say that for my own legal perception it is a neo-liberalism. It is not something I have encountered so far in my course, the settlements, of these arbitraryly structured areas, perhaps they covered needs, perhaps they served real needs at the time they took place. So he tries to give the definition by law, to avoid judicial review. But it cannot avoid judicial control, because this inaccuracies which have been heard from all sides, whether they will be by ministerial decision or by presidential decree, the definition is secondary after all. The main point is whether or not this arrangement is in line with the constitutional provision on environmental protection. Everything else is worthless. We are therefore waiting for the decision of the Council of State to be taken. It has already been referred by part of a seven-member composition. I think that the government has been raped at this point to say that it excludes settlements from forest maps. Let him seek another solution, because the victims will again be those who need them or - if you like - and in their wickedness built on arbitrary, or created arbitrary settlements. We're afflicting them, we're not saving them with these arrangements. However, I would also like to refer to something really annoying. There is a title in an amendment - which was tabled today at noon, and which was announced by at least a week - and it says 'extreme arrangements for the decongestion of prisons'. Are the regulations exceptional when the issue of prison inflation and the decisions we call for a violation of human rights in the way they are detained are old? The Paradise Act - Mr Paradoxopoulos is here - has already been in force for almost two and a half years. So these extraordinary circumstances became permanent? For me, they become permanent, and this gives the government a gauntlet to lay off and not to think about the consequences of this imprisonment - supposedly - of relief of prisons and the creation of better living conditions for detainees. But does the penitentiary work? Is that meant to be convicted? It's funny. It is the complete incompetence in the area of prisons, in the field of the award of criminal justice, which the House is asked to establish, but also to reward. I do not want to mention the examples of the repeated crimes of those who, in previous regulations, have been made redundant by prisons. Up to Germany, our graces came from someone who was fired from the Greek prisons and became a rapist and murderer. I mean something else, very simple for this place we live in. Do you know those who get fired in percentage? Let the government bring us evidence. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Show little tolerance, Mr President. Let the government bring us evidence to see the number of those who are fired, but also the number of those who are criminalised and are being brought back to prison. So are we cyclically liberating them? I have information from police officers - and it is official, if you like, gentlemen - that it is a high percentage of relapse of those who are liberated. It's a high percentage. So what are we looking for? Do you know that in the neighborhoods of Athens and in the small areas, fear prevails from the six and seven in the afternoon, as soon as it goes to night, because they fear the vengeance of those who had denounced? These witnesses went to court to testify to the crime suffered by the victims and they're afraid to go out of their house after seven and eight o'clock at night. Is that how we protect citizens? Is that how we practice anti-crime policy? Is that how we want to have a state? Well, no, gentlemen, at this point is too much the government's demand. I, too, believe that the Members of the government majority should at some point react, not be passive at all. They must not accept anything that the government brings and at least help this place. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u121	Thank you, Mr. Carras. Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy Mr Constantine Javarra has spoken for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u122	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are all aware that, in order for legislation to be passed and then to enter into force by Parliament, it is necessary, on the basis of the rules of good legislature, to run a certain number of specific stages, starting from public consultation and finalising with the adoption of a draft law as a whole. Any arrangement does not run this entire procedure shall not serve the democratic purpose by which at least each member of this House will have to deal with his or her duties. It is incomprehensible at the moment that regulations of their nature, from their content, should be adopted by the House, from what they are called to regulate, of great importance, and of greater importance to issues of general importance. Minister, in incorporating this directive we are all agreed that you are doing so at the end of the day and incorporating something missing into national law which promotes international cooperation in the field of criminal prosecution. Nobody has what you have seen. However, all the issues raised relate to the amendments. Here you will allow me to say that SYRIZA and your Government are trying to establish a kind of poaching in Parliament. In fact, a provision which has not been through all these stages cannot be treated as a rule of law which has in its sperm, its origin, the principle of democratic legitimacy. We should not only feel that we are representing the people and working on their behalf, but also at all stages of the debate in Parliament, we should feel that we are involved in an unlimited parliamentary dialogue, which cannot be shattered. I ask you directly, Minister. Are you happy with this provision you bring to amend Article 758 of the Code of Civil Procedure? Do you believe that this is how you respond to the country's obligation to comply with the obligations imposed on it by the provisions of the European Convention on Human Rights and the decisions adopted by the European Court of Human Rights? Are you aware that on 11 July a Morera - Ferrera decision was adopted against Portugal, where all the issues relating to the extent of the obligation to comply with Article 46 of the European Convention on Human Rights are resolved? [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] I will mention two, three issues that you think are a burden to us and you are all coming here, and of course you are proud of them, because you are satisfied with the requirement of the Court of Human Rights. However, the Court of Human Rights itself in this judgment states that the finding or judgment of an infringement of any rule of that convention is of a declaratory nature and cannot in any event in any way order or suggest the court of Strasbourg to deal with or comply with its operative part in any other way than the one it refers to. Indeed, there is no provision, from the definitions of a judgment of the Court of Human Rights, of a permanent procedural obligation for the Member State to have as a means of complying with the amendment of its domestic law. As the court says in this judgment - and you may indeed know it, but if you do not know it, it is worth reading it - each state is inspected for whether it complies with decisions at a general level and not at a specific level. Of course, there is no need to reopen the case when there is a conviction for violation of Article 6(1) of the ECHR. Of course, if that were the case, we would have been disastrous, they would have driven us out of the Council of Europe, Minister, because what should systematically raise awareness of you is the fact that we are still being condemned by the European Court of Human Rights for the excessive delay in the extradition of judgments. I do believe that the first statement made by the newly elected President of the Ice Region that the country needs effective justice is for me, if you will, but also for all the citizens of that country, a hopeful start of a term of office, for which we all hope it will be a success. With regard to the question of Article 758 of the Code of Civil Procedure, because you are legal, we should see whether and whether there was such an obligation in the case referred to, because the provision of Article 6(1), ladies and gentlemen, concerns the right to a fair procedure for the award of civil or civil disputes against a particular person. But, as we all know, there are two kinds of jurisdictions in the Civil Procedure. There is a dispute, where the courts there really resolve disputes - and I would remind you that the difference is the question of the right to authenticity with a force of reciprocated diagnosis of the legal consequences of private law - and the public jurisdiction where the court does not deal with disputes, but with administrative matters. So I ask: How is it possible in a procedure which does not have the character of a judicial function, in a close sense and in the sense of the disputed jurisdiction, to say that we have a violation of the right to a fair procedure here, when it is nothing but a case of the duty of justice to actually overshadow a specific decision with its validity? There is something else very important, which I sincerely want to tell you I did not expect you to have omitted it. Minister, there is already the Special Permanent Committee for the Monitoring of the case-law of the European Court of Justice in Strasbourg, and because I have the honour to participate with other colleagues, I inform you that, until now, this Commission has never met, in order at least to carry out matters of its competence. Do you know among other things what responsibility is? It is the study of the judgments of the European Court of Justice in Strasbourg and the drawing up of proposals for harmonising our country's legislation with certain specific elements concerning violations or guidelines given by the case-law of the European Court of Human Rights. So why should we, in this particular case, show so much rush and with an amendment to bring this change in the Code of Civil Procedure, when, at least, you should let it grow so that it does not exist and does not hear in this Chamber that some of this kind of hasty legalization is created and some misconceptions which have been made on national issues too? But here I'll tell you something else to see that you're really hasty and this rush for us is suspicious. Do you now think that the other amendment you are bringing, with which you are postponing the elections to medical clubs, does not violate human rights provided for in the European Convention on Human Rights? In other words, when the state intervenes in this way, without the agreement and without the decisions of the general assemblies of medical associations and extends the term of office of administrations, for which the general assemblies have decided to have a specific duration which is already exhausted and which you are prolonging, you are not in breach of the European Convention on Human Rights, that is, Articles 11 and 12 of the Constitution? So why do you give the impression that you are using double standards? In this sense, in fact, your effort, even in view of the divisiveness which has emerged in the government camp, also gives us an obligation to say that this is a very important issue, which my fellow Members will have to deal with here. Finally, I would like to say another point. There's a topic with this rebate. There is one topic with this now completely fight against the class of people who have chosen to serve health either as doctors, as entrepreneurs, or with a number of other professions financed by the Ministry of Health budget. Why do you understand them epicly? While you have already legislated in July under Law 4486 and said that this particular burden will be in existence, you will start from July, you will again understand the lightning and you are completely unpredictable and you are creating the obligation to retroactively apply this particular burden. I think that, not only here, you are not doing well, but all these amendments should be withdrawn. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u123	Mr Nikolaos Paradropoulos has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u124	It may be original, but I will talk a little bit about the directive itself and its incorporation and not the amendments. As far as the principle of acceptance of the directive is concerned, everyone is in agreement. It needs transnational cooperation to combat organised crime, and that is why procedural cooperation is needed. My criticism, therefore, is not so much about integration - we should basically incorporate it - but the European tactics should go ahead with the adoption of directives without at the same time bringing the institutional approach of European countries' laws to the same speed. What do I mean here? I will say this with one specific example. In Article 1 of the directive, as already incorporated, there is talk of a judicial authority of a State issuing the European research mandate. What is a state judiciary? And to see the definitions, nothing is said. There is talk of an extradition authority and not of a judicial authority. Can an administrative authority, a police authority, be counted? As far as our country is concerned, when it issues a European search warrant, no. As far as other countries are concerned, however, yes, because it provides for the possibility of issuing a European Arrest Warrant from other countries and without being a judicial authority. That's a big deal. Because either we have a distinction of powers, and the judiciary is distinguished by the police, or we have an osmosis. In the Council of Europe, we are moving towards a resounding. In the field of Europe's rights, traditional powers, we have a distinction of powers. The two systems are incompatible. They may seem to you that these are fine letters from a legislative point of view. I believe, however, that the concept of a judicial authority is of great importance in the European horizon, which, moreover, leads to legal consequences. I'm done incorporating the directive. Of course, I have to deal with the regulation introduced by the Minister of State, Mr Kontonis, concerning the decongestion of prisons. Look, those who criticised the provision from the point of view of Officerial Response - not all of them, many - had a common element, however: the indifference to decongestion. The decongestion or referred to at first as a 'yes' which we are immediately passing on to 'but' or something that is mentioned because it costs more crime. We must understand that this view of things, namely human rights in Greek prisons, is not only contrary to humanism, it is not only contrary to the culture and human rights that the whole of the earth accepts, it is also contrary to the need for security. Because if you're not interested in congestion, if you don't care about detention conditions, which are terrible, it means that you leave the prisoner in a state of garrisonment. Do you know what's going on? He's getting wild. What about the man who's on board? He's getting barbaric. That'll show after the release. For centuries, everyone has said that relapse is the prisoner's revenge on the barbaric detention conditions. We all want to have security after the release. What relapse rates do we have? We don't have one in our country, we don't count it. Do we have other countries that count them? Of course, both in Europe and in America. What percentages do they make? Approximately 50%. In the United States, 60% relapse after release. Do we come to any conclusion by catching a case of retreat from the thousands or a thousand five hundred that may be in time and saying: 'Do we have a crime with the Law of Friday'? All redundancies are based on current legislation. And part of those who are fired will be a crime. We're interested in statistics. We are interested in this crime, which comes after the relapse, to be reduced. Is there anyone here who brought a lead, any proof that crime after imprisonment is higher, crimes are more done, if we have a few months' variation in the time of dismissal? Is it not obvious that if a man, when he comes out of prison, is still in a sustainable social situation, if he has an elementary training, an education, and a reception after that, his crime will be lower? Of course, he's out of the investigation. Of course, he's coming out of the books. Do the books have to tell us that it will be obvious that when man comes out and has a way of being able to live decently, at least, he won't go with those percentages in gangs? Many of you are neoliberal. Their right. It's an ideology. What's he saying in there? What is the quintusia of this philosophy? It is that man's behavior knows conditions of purchase, supply and demand. When one gets out of prison and society doesn't give him membership, because the family can't welcome him, doesn't have the money, has forgotten him after years, and the market also doesn't give him a job, and the gang comes in and offers him a job, offers him a cut, is it not very likely that he will go with the gangs and not be properly acclimatised? And we're forgetting the reintegration and they're only talking about the other two months earlier, and if it comes out two months earlier, it's gonna make more crimes. And who says that? The legend! Because you don't have any research to show. What do police investigations say? Do they show rise to crime? I heard a cop friend of mine said that this is how we measure crime, don't we open a book to read, don't we see online if the indicators really show rise or not? Look, we need to speak very carefully and with great documentation on these issues. I come back to the right tone and forgive me for the intensity of the voice. We must be read and be able to support what we say. Nor does it make sense to say that they are coming out isovitas quickly with the Contonis Act or with the Act of Friday, because this amendment and the previous one, which was in existence, is not about life, it is about sitting under ten years, over ten years and not about life. Nor does it make sense to say, of course, that instead of making disarmament, create better conditions in prison, when every day, every week, every month, we read about new integration structures created in prison, to improve the conditions, for second chance schools that are inaugurated after another, for successful students who have passed tests, we read and watch from the press, those who do not go in, that prison conditions are upgraded. We are following the process of improving conditions in prison visits. Every day something happens. One has seen that prison improvement policy has been abandoned because there has been a decongestion which, in the end, has not brought us to normal levels, just congestion is not as much as it is, but is now less. I think we all need to understand that, even if we are not interested in human rights, to have less crime, to have more security after release, less aggression than people coming out of prison, we need to be more human toward them and we need to help their reintegration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u125	Mr Koumoutsakos from New Democracy has the floor, and then the Minister of Justice Mr. Kontonis will follow. Here you go, Mr. Kumucaco.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u126	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I have asked to speak in this debate on a matter of responsibility of the Ministry of Justice. I would not, if there were no specific amendment you tabled, an amendment relating to the change in paragraph 1 of Article 758 of the Code of Civil Procedure. Minister, this is an amendment with very serious national contexts and dimensions identified in Thrace. My seriousness and feeling of national responsibility require that I do not go any further into how and how it can affect. The fact that this amendment has major national implications and dimensions is not just our own reading is also your government partner, whose representative here has offended you, Minister, by person. Because what did he say? "We do not vote for it, because we have national sensitivities." So what did he say to you? That you brought it, because you don't have national sensations. And you can tolerate it! Minister, do you have the government majority with you in this amendment? Is the government majority present? Is he behind this amendment? If you don't have her, why did you bring her? Where do you invest? Are you investing in the responsible stand of counterpopulation to circumvent the irresponsibleness of your government partner? Where did these things come from? Because this has been repeated at times, rightly today, the New Democracy - and I am pleased that other political forces have followed her decision - has stated and stated clearly that 'an end to this game'. There can be no two parliamentary majorities, which will suit your government partner and one that will not suit him, but will pass the legislation with the responsible attitude of the Officer. No more toy! What, however, mainly concerns the fact that this practice applies to matters relating to the country's foreign policy and critical national issues. My location is not arbitrary. I would remind you that a few weeks ago, in this Chamber, and at the level of political leaders, it was found - and the Pan-Hellenic - that different positions were found on the major issue of Skopje and the name. Other the position of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, official and registered, and the position of Minister of National Defence. I wonder, because there are now discussions in both New York and the UN and recently in Skopje, what position is the Minister for Foreign Affairs negotiating? That's a big deal. Does he have a negotiating order? If he has a negotiating order, what is it? The one he believes or the one the Minister of National Defence believes? It is not possible on such a serious subject to appear on the other side of the negotiation, a minister who is not in fact mandated. Because they're watching everything. What credibility is he sitting on the table with the UN Secretary-General, Mr. Nimic, with his Skopje counterpart? What's his position? This little game with national issues is over. The New Democracy will not monitor it, in the name of responsibility, its lasting national attitude on all issues relating to national interests. I am listening - and I am closing down with this because I think that the arguments on this issue have been exhausted - that questions are raised on the side of the 'What is your position?'. Is that the point? Tell us what your position is.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u127	About what?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u128	On the subject of the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u129	We told you. Our position is the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u130	Do you have a parliamentary majority? You don't have it. Therefore, the major political issue is not what the position of counterpopulation is, but if there is a governmental majority in the way you legislate. That is the major issue. This, whether you like or not, will be dealt with every time your government partner attempts to make specs and gambles politically with serious issues. Because we accomplices in this game will never be again. End of story.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u131	Tell us, but you're the essence of...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u132	Please, Minister, you will take the floor immediately afterwards to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u133	And I am closing down with one last, because it has been heard with tension from that side of Parliament which is involved and has its roots in the darkest pages of European history. After denounced everyone, since almost all the rest of the National Representation was accused of being traitors, it ended up with the following amazing position that is helping the government. They will, he says, withdraw from the vote on this vote by reducing the number of votes required. This is collusion, it is a hand to the government, because it facilitates the formation of a government majority, which it probably does not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u134	That's not true.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u135	The Minister for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u136	Ladies and gentlemen, today's debate is particularly revealing on many issues. First of all, there has been a great deal of fuss about the amendment, which relates to the judgments of the Court of Human Rights, the Court of Justice of Strasbourg. What does the amendment say? Because here from Hitler's fans, fascists and nazis - and I say this because it proved to be from the documentaries of the "The Authors' Newspaper" that they are Hitler's fans, they say "Yes, we're fascists, we're Nazis", they're treating among the Gebels' chips and they're making jokes from them, we didn't expect to hear anything else. As the people's proverb says: “From a coral mouth what will you hear? You will hear 'cra'. From the fascists and neonazis, that's what we've been waiting for. I am still waiting to hear the position of the New Democracy. Because on matters of parliamentary cohesion, I will talk later. But we want to hear your position. You can tell us what you are saying on the substance of the amendment. And that's why you haven't talked to us yet. PASOK said: "We agree with the amendment, but we will not vote on it, because we propose other issues, to create a problem for the government." That's how they see it. The river made its own placement. He said: 'We agree with the amendment. We look forward to the further discussion'. What do you in New Democracy say to us? Do you agree or do you not agree? You fanatical 'Would Europe' can tell us what you say about the substance of this provision? You who had legislated exactly the same thing about criminal cases and the cases of administrative courts, will you tell us what you're saying? Or are you going to stay out of conversation? So tell us clean words here and do not stay on procedural matters or on political issues that you put. The second thing I want to say to you...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u137	Is the parliamentary majority a procedural matter?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u138	If you want to stop, because you're being convicted with what you're saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u139	Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u140	Take care, then, to see what a serious party you are and those who say the same thing to you. Two and a half years ago, we had another government of cooperation. We had another co-operation government. Did they always agree to the parties that constituted her in the bills she brought? Of course not. SYRIZA, however, because he is a responsible party and we are very much aware of it - and then we said it - when Mr Rupakiotis had brought a bill on drugs, we voted on it. We weren't talking about the jokes you're talking about today.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u141	You're overdoing it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u142	Am I overdoing it? Is it a responsible attitude, Mr. Panayotopoulos, your party's attitude, to say these things?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u143	What carnivores? Find the majority first.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u144	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u145	Say we agree, but don't we vote? What are you? Political schizophrenics? And we tell everyone. In other words, we agree with what the government says, but we do not vote on them because we want to create a political issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u146	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u147	So stop shouting because it shows how unfair you are. I would remind you that we then voted for what we agreed with. You who blame SYRIZA for irresponsible attitude, for blind opposition and so on.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u148	Only one amendment you voted in two years!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u149	Please, be quiet. Calm down.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u150	Did you see how the truth pisses you off? And we show our difference. That where we agree with something right, we have proved it. When we were opposition, we voted in favour of it. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] You come here today and you skepticise the situation and say "We do not consider whether or not we agree with something, other issues we propose". And that's what PASOK does, Mr. Papatheodorou.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u151	Once...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u152	Once he arrives to show. If we didn't agree on other issues, Mr. Papatheodorou, we said we didn't agree. We have not come from the Step of Parliament to say 'we agree, but we are voting against'. That is irresponsible parliamentary attitude and that is political bipolarism.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u153	Who said that? Who said we agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u154	So we are telling you now to see the substance of the provision. What you have voted on today in criminal and administrative court decisions and in civil matters, particularly voluntary jurisdiction, is brought to bear by the Government today. So what do we say?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u155	That's not what I told you!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u156	So what we say, Mr Javarra, and take account of the country's finances and finances, is why the order does not extend to compensation at the moment. This should also be done at some point.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u157	Answer what I told you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u158	He's not talking about us. It's about Burned.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u159	Are you finally stopping? Mr. President! I can't!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u160	Will you please stop?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u161	If my fellow Members are upset, I understand that. Because they are completely inconsistent with their attitude.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u162	We don't get upset. We're happy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u163	You're very welcome. Come on, Mr. Javarra.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u164	I understand. So what you have voted on for the criminal and administrative courts, for criminal and administrative proceedings, we are also bringing it in this case. And what do we say? They are based on these jokes - why can't I describe them as otherwise -, which were heard from the Golden Dawn here, by the Step of the House, namely that this is how we impose the recognition of Turkish unions? Is that what the provision says, ladies and gentlemen? And I address you as lawyers. The provision enshrines the right of the court to review its case by the Greek courts, which are, in principle, to decide and are not required by the order to harmonise their case with that of the International Court of Justice. A right of re-examination is therefore established here, with nothing more. The Greek courts will dominate them, as our Constitution and the laws lay down. Therefore, all these funny things that have been heard by the Stepping of the House and all these interpretations are all they do, apart from making some recruits, to offer bad services at home and home, ladies and gentlemen. And tell you why? Why do you open up issues where they do not exist in the layout?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u165	Minister, it's a transitional provision.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u166	Please don't interrupt, Mr. Athanasios.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u167	Please, Mr. Comrade. The order is clear. That is why fascists from the Step of this House were also professed to say what they said an hour ago. You heard them. In this delusion, the fascist delirium, who answers, ladies and gentlemen? It responds to the government, which says to everyone: look here, to come to an agreement. The human rights tribunal has also issued some other decisions. May I remind you of the Loizidou case? These decisions are flagged by the country. And we say again to you, the very Europeans, those decisions that, under the treaty, I say - may not make it easier for Greece, what are we going to do with it? Will we behave like the junta in '68 that was expelled from the Council of Europe?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u168	Why don't you tell your partner?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u169	Please don't interrupt. Mr. Kumucaco, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u170	Mr Kumucako, who came here today to say about Skopje, while we are discussing other issues, we say that the country should firstly be consistent with its international obligations, respect - after deciding to participate in these international bodies - the decisions of the international courts and enable Greek citizens to re-evaluate their case when they have achieved a positive decision by the European Court of Human Rights. What is all this conspiracy about Turkish unions in Thrace, etc.Huh? What is it?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u171	Mr. Kammenos will be here to explain it to us.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u172	So I want to tell you this.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u173	Mercy, Mr. Voridis!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u174	Will you finally respect the speaker? Please, Mr. Voridis!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u175	He's talking to us! To tell his partner!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u176	Mr. Voridis, I'll come to you later. Don't worry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u177	Tell your partner!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u178	Minister, I would ask you not to speak personally. Do your review and develop your views.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u179	You came from the Step of the House to tell us how harmful it is for society to prevail in prisons and how bad decongestion is when you were claiming the redemption of coups for years and years in your youth. But I'll see you on time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u180	What does it have to do with it?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u181	Oh, don't they have anything to do with it?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u182	Other than others!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u183	They go out and others stay in jail!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u184	Other than others!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u185	Yeah, yeah, we got it. I would like to tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that I was informed by the representative of the country at the Council of Europe, Ambassador Perakis, that the debate was postponed today - before the Permanent Representatives Council. That is why we had speeded up the amendment. But now we are given the time available to both the parties in the coup d'état and the other parties to be better informed of what exactly it says and what this provision seeks. I repeat, do not offer bad services to the country by opening up issues where they do not exist. Therefore, in response to the call made by Mr Papachristopoulos, the rapporteur of the ANELs, I would like to say that this one week, ten days will be allowed. We will withdraw these two articles and come to the vote in the next bill. Look, I'm saying these because today we're postponing this debate in the Council of Representatives. If it hadn't been for that, we'd have moved on properly. And whoever wants to take responsibility here at the National Representation. I am also making a legislative improvement for the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u186	Please, ladies and gentlemen, on such very serious issues, or say clearly your opinion and your views, or do not hide behind the issues of procedure. I don't want to tell you...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u187	These aren't savages. Allow me. Please. He's not a hamburger. It's our attitude. You judge her politically, but...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u188	Please, Mr. Giuleka, don't interrupt. Minister, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u189	So I want to tell you this. We have said from the Step forward of this House that there are and there will be bills that the two parties which support the government or not all the Members of these two parties will agree. In the next few days, the gender identity bill is coming for discussion. There may be disagreements with some ANE MPs. The government, the Ministry of Justice will bring the bill and be discussed in the House. As I say again, this provision will again be voted on in Parliament. But do not open up issues where they do not exist and expose the country further for micro-party purposes. That is why I spoke with such a strict reason, which is not what I am used to. Ladies and gentlemen, there has also been a lot of talk of extending laws 4332/2015 and 4411/2016 on decongestion of prisons. Is the legislative initiative for decongestion of prisons an originality of our own government? I do not think there is any man in Greece who says: 'Yes, it is your initiative'. All previous governments had taken such measures. Where did they end up with regard to their effectiveness? Zero. Because we received detention stores which had prisoners approaching or exceeding 12 000. Is that a detention store, ladies? That's a hell of a thing. And if you want to know, these people who will sometime come out of the detention stores - because everyone will come out either by 105 of the Criminal Code, or by other laws - they become even worse. Because there is no penitentiary in prisons, nor can there be any measure to improve the conditions of detention. So what did we do? We have managed to limit the prisoners on the basis of these laws that we have passed. I think this will be the last time we bring a law on decongestion, because already the number of prisoners is on a rationalized level. With the reform of the Criminal Code, things will get even better, so we'll have a perfectly better management of the number of prisoners. What have we achieved? Now, count how many second chance schools have been set up in prisons? How much IEK have been founded in prisons? What activities and actions are being taken in prisons? How much has been done over the last two and a half years? We have taken helliers in our hands and they have been detainees so that Greece today is the best country in all European states in achievements in the area of prisons. We have the most impressive results and we are praised. Don't listen to me. Listen to the President of the European Court of Justice, Mr Raimody, who had come to Greece and said that Greece was coming back to virtue, because what was happening in prison was incomprehensible and has now been corrected. I would therefore like to tell you that all this literature does not take into account the basic. He doesn't see the targeting. Finally, it's anti-crime policy. That's the sovereign. Anti-criminal policy in hellhouses cannot be done, ladies and gentlemen. That is why you have failed to do so in such a way as to be evenly and definitively. And you say, Mr Vorides, and something else that seemed to me, because you are a law-abiding lawmaker: that the provision provides for the release of isoviolents? And you're saying these things from a Step-by-State House?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u190	So twenty years of drug dealers don't matter?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u191	Have you read the layout? Well, don't say inaccurate and don't try this way to correct your inaccuracies. Please read the provisions - as for the previous one - and do not say inaccurate! [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I shall finish, Mr President. From what you have seen, I have only mentioned the two crucial amendments and I will speak tomorrow about the rest. I'll use my time for the bill. I would therefore like to tell you this: the provisions of exceptional decongestive structures do not establish rights in favour of detainees. These are exceptional laws that are passed and implemented to achieve decongestion. They must not, therefore, confuse - I say this in any way - the rights of detainees and human rights with exceptional decongestive laws and we must consider decongested laws to establish rights. I say this for two reasons: first of all, a theoretical and dogmatic reason to clarify things and another reason. Ladies and gentlemen, I would remind you of a decision by a Greek court which held an impunity in previous years a prisoner who escaped, precisely because the conditions in prison in your day were inhuman. Are you concerned with court rulings? These judgments of the Greek judges are taken into consideration? So you come here today and say here that SYRIZA releases prisoners. Aren't you telling me, article 105 of the Criminal Code doesn't release early prisoners? He's discharged.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u192	Easier, not premature.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u193	So the thing is, is if there's gonna be one or two more years left in prison? The problem is, and you have to understand it? That in the time that they are staying in prison, there must be human conditions of detention, of confirmation of human rights - because prisoners are also human beings - and serious work must be done in anti-crime policy and in prison.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u194	That's why you're there.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u195	If you tell me, then, that 'all you tell us, Minister, can be held with twelve thousand prisoners, under conditions of expatriation in prisons, in the conditions of hellfire in prisons', then why didn't you?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u196	We did it. We've all done it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u197	You didn't do it. You didn't do anything! That is why we have become the black sheep in Europe for detention conditions in prisons and the level of human rights. So that's why you're pretending you don't know anything. For what's happened in the country all these years, you're doing that you don't know anything. And what are you on a premium? You're on your way to a logic, which in the end what he says? Let's not leave anyone. Provisions that have been in force for twenty and thirty years, what do you say to us? Hold them all in prison forever because they've committed a crime? Are these serious things and serious approaches? I'll tell you again that all prisoners sometime come out of prison and come out before they execute their entire sentence. Article 105 of the Criminal Code applies thirty years and it is the decongestive laws you have brought. In the end, if you didn't get anything. Because as the victims of your idealization, what was leading you? Put so many exceptions into a decongested law that was not decongested. The decongested law, you only brought him here for the show. So I want to tell you to put aside populism and put aside...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u198	That sounds nice from SYRIZA!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u199	But, first of all, SYRIZA will tell you. Put aside populism and trade in fear - because that is what you are doing - and put aside the lame, even ridiculous, arguments. It was heard from the Step here, an MEP saying that he told him a cop's friend that the violence of those who are being fired early in prison is increased. So, with such arguments, ladies and gentlemen, will there be a serious dialogue on a very critical issue that concerns Greek society for decades now? Mr President, I have exhausted what I wanted to say about the two amendments and tomorrow I will make use of my time with regard to the bill. But you're welcome for this. I'm the one with the fascists and the Golden Dawn. With them you can't have dialogue, they're the negligents of dialogue. The rest of the parties, however, have the opportunity to speak, to disagree, but to say clearly about our views and to take into account the national interest. First, the last. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u200	After the Minister, we should go as follows until we interrupt the sitting: to speak three other speakers, to intervene Mrs Vaki, the Parliamentary Representative of SYRIZA - the other Parliamentary Representatives, the remaining four, will speak tomorrow after consultation, as will three speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u201	I'll talk tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u202	You spoke, Mr. Javarra.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u203	I'm telling you about my denture.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u204	Yes, you have a right. Why did I refer to secondarys? I have mentioned four remaining Members of Parliament who have not spoken today and will speak tomorrow. So for tomorrow, three speakers will be left, Mr Athanasios, Mr Ilhan-Ahmet and Mr Panayotopoulos, the four parliamentarians and we will be closing down with Mr Georgantas today, which is the last of the speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u205	Tomorrow will be the proposed seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u206	Tomorrow's gonna be the seconds. The rapporteurs and speakers will be entitled. However, given that an urgent matter has arisen with the rapporteur for the Communist Party, he has asked the Bureau and I think that the House has no objection to giving him the floor after Mr Georgioda, such as the order that we said it would be followed before the end of the sitting tonight, for four - five minutes for his dentistry, i.e. using the possibility of dentistry, because tomorrow he will be absent from the sitting today. So we give the floor to Mrs Panayota Kozobol - Amanatidis, then Mr Papadopoulos, Mrs Vaki and Mr Georgantas will speak. The meeting will start tomorrow at 10.00 a.m.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u207	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u208	What do you want, Mr. Papatheodorou? Something forensic?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u209	Net technician. You'll solve it. As regards the sitting tomorrow at 10 a.m., at the same time there is a Committee on Ethics in which many of the rapporteurs are involved. So please either postpone one or something else has to be done with the other.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u210	Look, I do not know how many of the rapporteurs are taking part in tomorrow's meeting of the Ethics Committee. But there are the Members of Parliament. In other words, the parliamentary groups can be represented. I can't postpone tomorrow's session from the Step. This is done after consulting the Bureau. But I can't commit myself now. Let's say it openly and clearly, Mr. Papatheodorou. It makes sense for you, but the parliamentary group, and your own and other groups, parliamentary representatives and other Members, to represent them in plenary. Come on, Mrs. Amanatidis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u211	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not go into the European mandate for investigation into criminal matters. It is a positive piece of legislation, which incorporates a European directive, which promotes international cooperation on combating crime with cross-border elements. I shall also refer more to the amendment on the decongestion of prisons. As has been said just now, measures to decongested prisons have been taken many times in the past. It could also be six legislations, but it was, in fact, ineffective because they had too many exceptions and thus did not fulfil the purpose for which they were adopted each time. I would like to tell you from this step by step my personal testimony as president and member of the Sanctions Committee. Like all the members of the committee on the penitentiary system, we have visited many detention stores. There we are all witnessing what we see. Prison managers inform us about before L.4322/2015 and after L.4322/2015 and the extension they took next year. The situation in prisons is human for that very reason with these measures that have been adopted. So there we have seen places in our visits that have emerged from the same decongestion. We have seen in these areas that there are second chance schools operating, computer spaces, ceramic laboratories, training workshops for the detainees. In other words, there has been room for educational programmes, penalization programmes and reintegration programmes. That's the profit for society. Even though a small percentage of former detainees are reinstated in society, it is security for it. The argument was made: "Why are there not new prisons built, new shops that are spacious, airy, well-being?" In fact, the special speaker of the Democratic Partnership said "we will build structures that will be suitable and fit for all prisoners". Why were they not made, however, at the time when the country had the financial potential, which prospered financially? Why were these stores not built so that they could house the prisoners in human conditions? The state must modernise the obese and miserable majority detention shops and some of them have been built anywhere, in inappropriate spaces to serve other purposes, foreign to the penitentiary system. It is therefore the responsibility of the state to give room for the application of penitentiary systems, with a view to reintegrating detainees into society, a process that starts from the first day of the sentence. Reintegration of detainees is really a difficult project, but it is the only way to shield society and feel safe. Reintegration is the prevention of relapse, it means less crime, and that is what this provision is aimed at, and all the rest I really regard as hypocritical. Finally, I would like to say a word about the evaluation of civil servants. I really don't understand exactly what opposition tells us. Should public officials not be evaluated, and indeed an evaluation that has nothing to do with the evaluation of Mr Mitsotakis, which 15% of the civil servants had to be fired? The assessment that has been set up is neither extortionary nor punishable. It aims to improve the functioning of the public administration and all the provisions already laid down, we are sure, that the public administration will stop being the great patient. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u212	Mr Papadopoulos has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u213	We considered it self-evident, ladies and gentlemen, that, in the issues that are self-evident, such as what we have tabled some Members of Parliament's amendments, in order for the elections to be held throughout the country and for the management of the Pan-Hellenic Medical Association to take place in four years, it would almost go without saying - I would say - of all Parliament's wings. It seems, however, today that selfishness is not so self-evident. On Mr. Voridis' side, I was not surprised by extreme aggression. I was sincerely surprised by Mr. Javarra's attitude. What did he say? Even for human rights violations, because it says that medical clubs want it not to take place with an extension, but to take place now. Look a little bit: The medical clubs throughout the country, the general assembly of the Pan-Hellenic Medical Association, the consultation on a draft law prepared by the Ministry of Health, have concluded that the provisions on the modernisation of medical legislation must include the possibility of four years instead of three years' term of office and the harmonisation of elections in medical clubs throughout the country with the new system of representation, which is included within. Our request for the legislative amendment is in complete agreement with the management of the Pan-Hellenic Medical Association. Some of the extreme aggression, however, came in here with opposition tactics against the government's majority, telling us the strange things, that 'even to what we agree with, we will vote against them'. Because you have the illusion that the government will fall. Because so far you have not succeeded with your efforts to bring the government down. Now you are very afraid that, in spite of all the disagreements we have with ANELs on several issues, this government majority will go to the next elections, to apologize for all its work, to present the possibility of a comprehensive reconstruction of the country at all levels, so that we can present to the Greek citizens that we have done everything we can to get away from custody, so that we can say that the Greece that we have delivered in relation to Greece is much better. Because some of them are self-evident about some aspects of the House, they should also be prepared for the simple analogue, as the Democratic Compact should be. You should! What did he say here? It harmonizes - it says - with the opposition tactics of the New Democracy. We do not yet know who the elections will take for a new or new president in the shape that will arise. We hope, however, that the logic which leads to programme shocks is not on the basis of this argument which they have presented here. Because this prevents any attempt to make a programme of consultation. We very well understand the opposition of the Communist Party of Greece to several issues on which the bill and the amendments are based. We do not understand those who say very clearly that 'we agree, but, for opposition reasons, because we think you will fall, we do not vote on them'. From the point of view of the Potamius, it would be a omission on my part not to stress that it was very important that the unity of theory and action that they presented in here was very important. They said very clearly that 'in the areas to which we agree, we will go to the end'. Other issues have arisen very seriously, on the basis of an amendment tabled in the bill, such as a Nazi preaching on patriotism, which puts this strange logic in mind: patriots are Nazis, we are - it says - rivals. Do you know any of the nazis of the patriotic struggle against German conquerors participating in a patriotic movement? Tell me one! He was a partner of the Germans. Do you know what attitude the Communists, the leftists in patriotism, have kept us preaching in here? These issues relate to our pure relationship with the Independent Greeks. Thanasis Papachristopoulos, who I appreciate, told us neither too much nor much, Mr Minister, that we should withdraw the amendment because it is contrary to the patriotic sensitivities of the ANELs. Let's be clean. On questions of principle, we are also calling on the President of the ANELs and their parliamentary group. Because the President of the ANELs, Mr. Kammenos, said that "we will go together to fight the work we are doing in the next elections". But this, with such terrain, doesn't work much. I think that warning should be addressed. Clean talk makes clean friends too. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Because I insist that we prepare for a Parliament, after the next elections, of the mere analogous, which will actually create programming agreements, let us have these debates now. Let's do this right now, so we can be clean. A final word for evaluation. We all grow. At some point in time, we allowed some of the trade union shades to think they were against evaluation because they had concerns about whether the evaluation would be properly carried out. Let's make it clear. The evaluation for all of us, from above to below, from the Prime Minister, from the ministers, from the Secretary-General, from the Directors-General, to the officials, is a necessity. Everyone's being evaluated. And the ministers are being evaluated. They are appreciated for what they do, in relation to what we have to do. As far as the evaluation is concerned, we must say very clearly to both the ADEDY and the public officials, who continue to think that they will be assessed in a way that has been demonstrated since the past, that this government has presented a great democratic reform to public administration. It has not been implemented so far. They are right to criticise that the Executive Register has not yet been implemented, as has many other issues that would accelerate the evaluation.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u214	Mr. Papadopoulos, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u215	I shall conclude, Mr President. However, this government has proceeded with the evaluation of directors-general. We're making an evaluation of the hospital managers. The hospital managers are evaluated and some of those who presented a negative project began to take the path of their negative evaluation. This assessment must be carried out, because we will be able to make a society which has the merits of highlighting and evaluating all of us for what we have been talking about, what we are doing and what our vision is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u216	The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Mr Vaki, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u217	Ladies and gentlemen, I would leave it to myself, because I found it very beneficial as an argument. However, because it has been used by many colleagues both from the New Democracy and the Democratic Independence and it seems to be your new account, in the absence of someone else who has been agitated since 2012, of course, for the front of a New Democracy - Democratic Incorporation, let me make a comment and let me make it a bit philosophically in the way. We have therefore learned today a new assessment criterion for the creation of legal judgments. Today we have learned a new criterion for assessing the correctness or inappropriateness of an article, a provision, of a bill. It would, therefore, be thought that this criterion would be, for example, whether a law benefits society as a whole or whether a law serves the public interest. It tells us, in my dance, that the New Democracy and the Democratic Alliance, henceforth, its criterion of whether to vote against a law will be one and only, whether this law will have an agreement or consensus between the SYRIZA and ANEL co-pilots. Which is serious! Is that how you exercise legislative authority? Under these criteria, do you pass laws of the state, laws applicable to the Greek people? Are these your criteria? You're swinging the finger of asking for your consent or your vote. Who asked for your vote? Who asked for your consent? We're not asking for your vote. Nevertheless, we ask you to give your opinion and to express your position on the amendments to the bill. I now enter the main part of the bill and you will allow me to say a few words about some of the amendments. First of all, we are discussing the incorporation into national legislation of a directive which, according to the terminology of the institutions of the European Union, is called the 'European pillar of justice, security and human rights'. This pillar can lead to a common response to organised crime, ensuring the proper functioning of the common European area without internal borders. This is, of course, an ambiguous process, which has rightly caused some objections, which are related to the protection of personal data, social freedoms, but also to the core of the national state and its sovereignty in a number of key sectors, such as justice and internal security. By introducing a common judicial method, the European mandate for investigation into judicial matters, integration aims to further deepen the European Union. Nevertheless, I believe that a detailed and fruitful debate has taken place during the legislative process of the draft law in the committee responsible and the Ministry has explained individual implementing provisions in relation to the problem mentioned above. Ladies and gentlemen, I would now like to refer to some of the amendments. I shall begin with the one mentioned in the assessment in public. The last thing you have to blame the SYRIZA - ANEL Government is that it has created a client state or that it has made rosé appointments to the public. Governments that created the client state and its monarchies, i.e. a completely inappropriate and irrational public, a public trophy and a spoil of politicians and not the citizen, when the crisis was invented, responded to the crisis by declaring a working war. Who was that? Let us remind ourselves of a few things: redundancies, availability, abolition of the presumption of innocence in the Disciplinary Law of Public Officials, the social automation and dismantling of the social state. What do we do? We restored working peace and restored the dignity of employees, the prestige of services and the merits of the choice of heads with L.4369/2016, which provided for the establishment of an Executive Register. The spirit of legislative initiatives for an integrated public administration system in the country is not guided by a medieval, punishing nature of the pragmatic evaluations of the Mitsotakis Act. It's not human prosecuting. It's anthropocentric. He's not punishing, but improving. It comes under the principles of social accountability and participatory democracy and certainly does not work as a pretext for redundancies or as an alibi for the State to be given responsibility to private individuals. I now come to the next amendment on the issue of the decongestion of prisons. The previous speakers have said so. It would be commonplace to repeat that the overpopulation of the Greek prisons is a brake on the implementation of social reintegration policies for detainees. I would also like to say that in many areas the Greek Criminal Code is extremely strict in relation to the penalties, which could sometimes even be termed extermination. For example, Greece is one of the countries with the highest percentage of life sentences in Europe. Therefore, conditional dismissal interventions work in a positive way both for the penitentiary system and for the social system as a whole. One of the first legal instruments of this government was the law on decongestion of prisons, the Act of Friday, as we used to call it. The rule of law, the principles of new civilization from the time of Chezare Bekaria, interpret justice as a penitentiary and, of course, go beyond its rewarding dimension, which is reflected in the eye for an eye. The criminal hell, armored with moral and humanitarian principles, is not avenged. On the contrary, it prevents future manifestations of criminal behavior. The law we had adopted then reminded us that prisons are not human warehouses and prisoners are not invisible people - shadows without rights, which should reach the last limit of their biological status. Let me mention, because the spirit of this law is being kept, we keep it as an eyewitness, rather than a very important one, in the great contribution at that time of this bill, which consisted of the abolition of the Columbia - because we have heard a great deal before colleagues of the Officerate - to the abolition of the infamous Type III prisons, which were clearly governed by the logic of extermination of the detainees. The abolition of Type III prisons, for which we are proud, is tantamount to restoring democracy, by restoring equality and proportionality, the normative principles of a rule of law. Of course, the colleagues of our Officerial Response have stated that you would like these prisons to come back, because it seems that you, who do not have fraudulents, as the Chief of Officerial Response at the IGC said, for a society without inequality - because this is contrary to human nature - you would not only want the left-wing parentheses, you would like the entire European legal culture to be represented, you would also like the Enlightenment of parentheses and the great proclamations of human rights and the citizen who gave birth to it. You told us well before.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u218	Easy! Who are you talking to, Mrs. Vaki? If the country is in Europe, it is due to the New Democracy. Let go of it! Suddenly defenders and the European legal system? Don't go crazy!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u219	You told us well before, don't interrupt me. You want the rule of law and democracy parentheses. The laws of nature, Mr Colleague, do not apply to society. If that happens, then your prophecies will be associated with the extreme neoliberal beliefs of total deregulation of work, privatization of education. You even told us that the General Accounting Office of the State should be assigned to individuals. You know what? Students are not customers. Public and free education, for the defence of which great struggles have been given to this place, is not a state monopolies that express the way for entrepreneurs. The investments, which you shake our finger, do not match the plundering of nature and public wealth. The country is not "Banana" and the Europeanism "inhabited Europe", to which you confess, is not a colonialist "ELDORADO GOLD". Europeanism and investment without rules and conditions for the protection of nature and human dignity is something of a oxymobile nature. However, your programme - something that we have understood today in plenary - is this: repression, wood, redundancies and a full match with the representatives of the funds, plundering and devasting countries. The social corporation of neoliberalism, which has recently passed three centuries of enlightenment and forgery the history of the great social struggles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u220	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u221	The Minister has the floor for an announcement.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u222	Mr President, I would like to inform the House that the two parliamentary amendments that have been tabled are accepted and will be incorporated into the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u223	Is it easy for you to tell us the number of amendments?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u224	It is the amendment with a general number of 1249 and an amendment with a general number of 1256.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u225	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr Georgadas has the floor from New Democracy. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u226	Thank you, Mr President. Because it is too late, Mr President, and I am the last speaker, let me give a little different tone to my speech today. Ladies and gentlemen, I will tell you a nice story. This nice story is about a government, which at some point in February 2016 brought a very nice law, as it presented it, which was a reform in public administration. It was a law that was presented by the Minister as an incision to public administration, as something to help the state's colonisation. That day we heard many words, words of great reform, about another public body, about a public servant, who will embrace this effort of the government, and we have waited to see the implementation of this law. This law had three legs. One was called the "Register of Government Executives". The other was called "Opposition of Heads" and the third was called "Assessment of Officials". It's been nineteen months since. It was February 27, 2016. With regard to the State Staff Register, because I had the honour of being the rapporteur of the New Democracy that day, I told Mr Vernardakis, the Minister, that we will vote on this subject on a condition: do not put transitional provisions, put it into effect now, in the next quarter, four months. As if I were a guesser, while anticipating that its implementation will be initiated by July 2016 and to an absolute extent, all the government executives since September 2016 will be chosen from this registry, you know, ladies and gentlemen, that this State Staff Register has never been implemented, because it is obviously not over by SYRIZA's party and relatives, who have to be restored to positions of responsibility. In relation to the selection of heads, which was also presented as a large section, so far nothing has been done at all. Mrs. Gerovasili before, trying to justify the legitimate objection of civil servants "but how will some who have not been evaluated," she said: But for 2016, anyway, because it is a transitional year, the evaluation could not be carried out by the rated supervisors. That's why we, in these nineteen months, continue with the assignment of heads, we put directors, directors of directors. But this will be for a year. In other words, she wants to tell us that today, which is September 2017, and in the first quarter of 2018, the evaluation of this year must be carried out by the heads of this year. Aren't these chiefs the same ones who are appointed, the same ones that are from the past, the same ones who went in before, but didn't they go in with that law, which he's very advertised? The evaluation of 2017 will therefore be carried out by these heads who are currently in existence. These chiefs currently in existence are by delegation most of them and many of them party officials. Do you know what he's creating? A climate of unreliableness and a lack of confidence in public officials, resulting in 80% of them - which, of course, was attempting to give it to the New Democracy, to accept it, we would like - not to participate. Rather than the government understands what went wrong and quickly run the other selection procedures with the law, even the one it voted for - which we disagree on in some parts of it, but with the law that it voted on, with the one that it published - it goes through with the Register of Officials of the State and with the failure to select a wrong symbol to all civil servants, that there is not going to be any historic procedure. That is why they refuse to participate. The New Democracy has always been a voice of responsibility in this Chamber. What he has come out of it and said is that at the moment the evaluation process, which the current government has made as opposition, is now facing it. It brings an amendment, which has something very wicked. It says that the assessors, the supervisors, who will not complete the evaluation sheets to send them to the addresses, will not be able to participate in subsequent selection of heads. Who tells me that this will not be done in two years or will it never be done by the present government? And we'll have continuous assignments. I mean, you can be, in choice you can't be. Even if this amendment is voted on today and an evaluator should not send the cards, he is entitled to be in charge the other day. Not to be already, to be done now, again. Because this amendment prohibits only those who are to participate in a process of selecting heads. Of course, it creates a large number of technical and legal issues, as we will have three categories of assessments: one which will involve the official and the assessor, one which is only the evaluator, one which is only the official. But this cancels the evaluation process from its birth. We call on the Government to'start' quickly the process of selecting heads, to restore this confidence that must exist with the civil servants and with the political and other leadership of the Ministry of Public Administration, in order to achieve the objective that we all want - the New Democracy has always supported him - and which is to make a real and effective assessment of the public. Of course, I should like to remind the Members who forget it. In January 2015, the bill of the then government of New Democracy, which had exactly the standard system of evaluation of civil servants - because what you are continuing to chew here was a transitional stage that worked for two years - which has very many positive points and I invite you to read it. He filed a consultation in January 2015, but the government came and canceled everything he found and comes to these deadlocks today. Mr President, I would just like to say something about the amendment to decongestion of prisons. It is not a sign of a favoured state to come every two years and to say that it is necessary to decongested prisons, so that there are good conditions for prisoners who cannot be guaranteed by the state, and that is why we are leading to the release of criminals who have suffered serious crimes. I would understand the pure intentions of the Minister and of the SYRIZA Members if, within the offences which cannot benefit from these benefits, they were also the offences described in Article 187 of the Criminal Code. We cannot have doomed to criminal organisations or to participate in terrorist acts that can benefit from this. If you really are in a good mood, with intent, and what you are interested in is only decongestion of prisons and not the service of some of your resignation who favorably see in that direction, put within the exceptions and Article 187 of the Criminal Code. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u227	Thank you, Mr. Georganta. The reason for this is the special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr. Synthrakis, to give a second answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u228	In relation to the amendments, I should like to put it to the vote. We have exhausted our opinion report in relation to the bill. He said the Minister would withdraw the amendment on the European Court of Human Rights, but he will return. But allow me, because there has been a lot of discussion to express our opinion as a party. We believe that the substance of the amendment on the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights is that the Council of Europe, part of which is the European Court of Human Rights, even though it has occasionally taken some positive decisions, such as, for example, on the Manola case, this Council is in fact increasingly reacting, which is reflected in a number of its decisions, such as the functioning of the parties, the overthrow of labour rights and a number of other decisions that call into question democratic, social and liberties. In this respect we are concerned about where things can be led, and that is why we would be voting 'the present' on this amendment. In relation to the issue of the Muslim minority in Thrace, we would like to point out that this issue is governed by international treaties, the Treaty of Lausanne in this case and cannot be changed in any case by judicial decision. In relation to the Health Ministry's amendment regulating the payroll of officials and the operating costs of the National Central Committee for Health Procurement, we are voting positively, on the basis of the fact that there is no problem with the payment of employees' payroll. We agree with the arrangements for funding to fund the EMSDDA by the Ministry of Health. In relation to the amendment also by the Ministry of Health for rebate, I would like to say that this amendment applies to the system of compulsory deductions for original medicines that are within patent time and have been authorised from 1-1-2017 and not as planned for those that have been authorised after the publication of a law and also to amend the method of calculating and allocating the rebate for hospitals. The question for us, of course, is whether this regulation on the calculation of compulsory discounts benefits patients. In our view, they do not benefit from anything. Refunds for the overrun by the pharmaceutical industry do not go towards a single euro in favour of reducing the increased amounts paid by patients. And with the previous law, which is now amended, patients paid increased contributions, and in this respect we are voting for'represents' in this amendment. With regard to the amendment of provisions of forestry legislation, an amendment that has been converted into Articles 37, 38 and 39, we are voting'residents' in Articles 37 and 38 concerning the extension of the time limit for forest maps and the procedure for submitting objections and we are voting against Article 39 on housing densities. In any case, however, it is also clear here that the forest maps law, which we voted against by justifying it, when the debate in plenary on this bill took place, and in particular the commitment of this bill leading to the commercialisation of the land. In relation to the proposed parliamentary amendments, I would like to say that in Amendment No 1249 and in Amendment No 100 we cannot understand the reasoning. It is a explanatory statement on the value-added tax exemption for the rental of real estate, in which the company was operating and so forth. It doesn't cover us, we need more explanations, because the way it looks more like a camera device. We need more explanation. In relation to the parliamentary amendment on medical clubs and the Pan-Hellenic Association, and I will conclude with that, Mr President, with this amendment, the three-year term of office of the organs of the medical clubs and the Pan-Hellenic Society is now turning into four years. Members who sign this amendment claim that a draft law on the reform and modernisation of medical legislation governing medical clubs and the Pan-Hellenic Medical Association, an article of which is the specific amendment, is to be submitted to the House. Whatever modernisation and whatever reform is made, they do not deny the fundamental problem of these associations, the legal persons, i.e. public law, that these are from their creation and their mission as the state's institutional advisers for health. They are associations supervised by the Ministry of Health and his assistants over time in the exercise of anti-popular policy. The JRC's position on the matter of term of office is in favour of two years for medical clubs and the Pan-Hellenic Medical Association. We do not, however, have any illusions about the nature of these institutions, and we put it from the point of view of the more frequent control of the institutions elected through the electoral procedures and the illusion of the correlations between them in this area. That is why we are voting against this amendment. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u229	Thank you, Mr. Synthraki. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minutes of Thursday 13 July 2017, Friday 14 July 2017 and Monday 17 July 2017 have been distributed and the House is asking whether it will ratify them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u230	The minutes of Thursday 13 July 2017, Friday 14 July 2017 and Monday 17 July 2017 were therefore validated. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-19-S1-commons.u231	With the consent of the House at 23.35' the meeting is closed for tomorrow, Wednesday 20 September 2017 at 10.00, on the subject of Parliament's legislative work: the continuation of the debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights: "European mandate for investigation into criminal matters - Harmonization of legislation with Directive 2014/41/EU and other provisions".
