ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-09-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICE: According to the Parliament's approval from 8-3-2017, the minutes of the IGC of Wednesday 8 March 2017 were ratified by the Bureau, with regard to the adoption of the draft law as a whole: ‘Consolidation of the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan on cooperation in the field of agriculture and other provisions’.]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-09-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on the following questions: We begin with the fifth under the number 525/24-2-2017 topical question by MP Ioannina of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Christos Mantas, Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the recognition of the Interdisciplinary Organisation for the Recognition of Academic and Information Titles in Masters from private universities in Cyprus and Italy and the partnerships with higher education institutions in our country. Mr. Mada, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-09-S1-commons.u3	Mr President, Minister, I am opening today with this question, which is timely, an issue concerning the Interdisciplinary Organisation for the Recognition of Academic and Information Security, the IODAP, an issue that I consider to be extremely critical and I think we should have a continuity in the operation of this Agency. I am going to be more specific: First of all, the topicality of this question arises from the fact that there are permanent place for substitutes, especially in Special Education, for which postgraduate qualifications count a great deal. So there are many articles - and I mention them in my question - which speak of a large number of degrees in education and special education sciences and, according to these publications, these titles have always been obtained in the form of distance learning, with one year's study - always according to the publications - from the private university of Nicosia Cyprus and from a university in Italy and, indeed, advertising reports that the organisation of the courses is regulated by private bodies in Greece, while in the case of Cyprus, examinations and meetings take place exclusively in Greece. So the questions that arise about these titles are as follows: Can you tell us how much this volume is and how much postgraduate we talk about? Can you tell us about the times required for the receipt of these postgraduate qualifications and the period during which they were acquired and subsequently recognised by the IATP? More specifically, these programmes are two years old, as provided for in the Law of the Greek Open University or have they been abbreviated? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, you will allow me to have the floor for a second. Moreover, the training procedures in these postgraduate programs were done with the corresponding rules of the Greek Open University and, if so, how do we document this? Educational sites, which visit young people and young people, have too many ads about these studies, advertisements that directly state that the exams and meetings take place exclusively in Greece. Is that legal? Is it not an indirect infringement of Article 16 of the Constitution? If this is true - and this is a very crucial issue - does not there arise inequality in claiming the positions of the Deputys of Special Education for the graduates of the Greek Open University? Have instructions been given to the new administration, which has been given since November 2016, as I know, in order to deal with these questions, perhaps problems, I don't know, and is this all the situation in the knowledge of the new administration? Finally, there is another issue, which concerns two public universities. The universities, therefore, Patras and Peloponnese, have concluded programme contracts for these remote programs with the private higher education institution of Cyprus. And the question is: Is the existing legislation on higher education in Greece allowed to organise or co-organise postgraduate courses in the form of distance learning from other than EITs? And if so, what does this mean for the institutional framework of distance education as a whole? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-09-S1-commons.u4	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-09-S1-commons.u5	Mr Manda, thank you for this question. And I say thank you, because trying to make our advance with the services, we've found things that aren't good. I'll tell you some of what we've come up with and the rest is under investigation. However, let us keep the whole of what Mr Mandas said, from which issues arise outside of academic moral order. What do I mean, out of academic moral order? At best, things that were not studied so much, in the worst case, things that are illegal. Unfortunately, I have to accept this in terms of the overall turnover and the overall context of remote programmes. With the present IATAP administration we have excellent cooperation, so that we see how the IATAP will be restructured, which, as you know, has for many years been having a legislative regime that certainly needs to be modernised. And we are in cooperation to do so and we are committed to bringing these changes to Parliament. But the important thing is the other things you raise in your question. These degrees are five thousand three hundred, what happened until 2015 and what happened after 2015. It is important to say that the procedures of the Greek Open University are not followed, but a set of other procedures that were the result of correspondence with the Cypriot universities and IATAP's repeated meetings, so that some kind of regularity in recognition can be established. You are absolutely right, we have seen it, and we are investigating the use of IATAP in many ads. But, you know, it's what I told you at first. We cannot create a police grid and it is not possible that the academic community has been solved for decades - we are both academics and you know it - to find things in front of us again. And I'm talking about ads. There is a very serious issue with remote programs. I have also said to another reply to a fellow Member that remote programmes should not be legislated very strictly, and I know exactly what I'm saying. Because at the moment there is no legal regime, unfortunately there is nothing that prevents them and initiatives that shock me personally, because these initiatives have been taken in the name of extroversion, but which play with the agony of our families, because they promise various degrees and various professional opportunities. At a time when IOTAP has ratified these diplomas by its own procedures, you can understand that there is this great injustice, to which you refer, in the tables on teachers - take care - of special education, that is to say, in the most sensitive area. In the well seated, while waiting for a number of other matters to be settled, one needs to be taken care of, to which are allegedly involved people who show this sensitivity. Here, then, we will be very strict and - you know, we have discussed it - in a few weeks' time we will bring a law which lays down with great rigour that kind of thing in terms of postgraduate. For the rest, the universities will be given the autonomy and autonomy to be given to these curricula. But not to keep this thing going out of control. On 22 March I will visit Cyprus at the meeting of the Ministers for Education of the European Union, where the issue is "Democracy and Education" and I have asked for a private meeting with the Minister of Education of Cyprus, where the first topic I will raise, within four - five, is the subject of these institutions and of the curricula. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-09-S1-commons.u6	It remains now where they will find their point, the people so far. Mr. Maddash has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-09-S1-commons.u7	Mr Minister, I am pleased that you first acknowledge that we have questions here which need to be investigated. In fact, I will insist on some, because I think they have a special value to be this space, i.e. recognition, without shadows. I would like to make it quite clear that I am obviously not against this type of education, as I imagine you are. But without rules, in fact, we are at risk by such procedures that, if you like, use modern technologies and so on, so that things do not happen as they should, that we are not controlled and that we are in trouble. That's what this is about. I also think that what you said - and I am also at your disposal for a contribution to that, as I imagine many other colleagues are aware of these areas - is that we need to modernise the IATAP framework. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] If you'll excuse me, I'll be done, Mr. President. I will give you an example - and I will tell the House - to understand what this is about. Since under Law 3328/2005 the three-year foreign degrees are recognised as TEI degrees and four years as university degrees, listen to where the Agency is being driven. It is therefore guided to the crisis of study that comes, for example, from the fact that German TEI recognizes them as a university, while corresponding studies, three years of Oxford degrees, recognizes them as a TEI. That's how we can find too many. As also there is obvious - at least so it seems - a delay in degrees from very serious foreign universities, and at this particular level we have seen an acceleration. It's a question. Finally, Mr President, I would ask - and I will see how I will do so - to see these procedures, which ended up in a year's time. I don't know if they did correspondence with Cyprus, what they did, how they ended up being a year and how they ended up being different from the PSF. What I am also surprised at is that, from what I see from the FEK, we have two public universities that have signed programming contracts that, if I am not mistaken, one arrives by 2021, 2022 and the other by 2023, 2024. So we must also look at legality - I do not suppose there will be a problem with that - but also with the substance. So, we're going to start a process like this? That's the question. If that is the case, we, who have served the public universities, need to know about it, must have equal information on it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-09-S1-commons.u8	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-09-S1-commons.u9	I shall conclude, Mr President, and I say that the recognition process is an extremely sensitive issue, both in terms of the result it produces and in terms of substance. Because here you spoke specifically about Special Education and how inadequacy there is. I'm done, Mr. President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-09-S1-commons.u10	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-09-S1-commons.u11	Mr President, I have heard your comment 'where they find their point'. and they really need to find it, and that is why we are doing this debate. Mr. Mada, there were three meetings of the IOTAP Board of Directors on 17 July, 18 September and 6 November 2015 to discuss specifically their correspondence with Cyprus and other public bodies in order to make the decisions they made. So the present administration has played it. You mentioned something that I think should characterise not only the administration but, above all, the issues of education, namely that there should be recognitions without shadows here, as you have said. Because if there are shadows in education, about everything is allowed in a society. That is why we are very strict, and that is why we will seek to modernise the IATAP. But that's not all. And I'll tell you what I mean. Once again, as you said, we both know these issues very well. Some issues in the world of education must be self-evident. This overdefinition through the rules leads to incredible distortions, because as it has been done, to the good sittings that are not forbidden is allowed. This cannot be done in the field of education. Because it is so complicated, there must be frameworks in it, and with an academic morality one must see what it can do and what it cannot do. We are not against distance. Clearly! You said it yourself. But, not without rules. But the rules shouldn't determine everything and be on top of them to see if they're satisfied or not. But that wants a new academic morality. And there is no point in shouting in this Chamber that if it becomes the famous extrovert of universities, then economic problems and academic problems will be solved. That's another scam. The extroversion today exists in universities. We have huge revenue from the European Union, based, for example, on competitive programmes. We have an excellent world coming and leaving and many other negatives. That's not our point, though. It's not a question of how, by twisting academic ethics, we bring money to the university. That's what we need to break. That's all I had to say. I note what you said. I know it's two public universities that have these contracts by 2021 and 2023. I will be in touch with the beatings, but I insist that someone else must be the way to deal with them. Of course, we would very much like you to contribute to any modernisation we will propose for the IATP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-09-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Finance, Administrative Reconstruction, Economy and Development Ministers, the Deputy Minister of Finance, as well as the Deputy Minister of Finance, submitted on 8-3-2017 a draft law: "Incorporation into national legislation of Directive 2014/92/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 July 2014 on the comparability of fees linked to payment accounts, the change of payment account and access to payment accounts with basic features and other provisions. I also announce to the House that the third with number 549/1-32017 a timely question for the first cycle of the MP Kilkis of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Hadjisavvas to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the irrational divestment of the profitable "EGNATIA DUT S.A." will not be discussed due to lack of competence. The Ministry of Finance is responsible. Also, the fourth under number 550/1-32017, a top-level question by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, regarding the existence of just four speed radars in the country's national network, will not be discussed. The fourth under number 175/7-10-2016 question by MP Laconia of the New Republic, Athanasios Davakis, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the flooding of the Laconia Prefecture, will not be discussed after consultation of the relevant Deputy Minister with the MP. Eighth under number 463/10/10/2017, a topical question by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister for the Environment and Energy concerning the transfer of PPC users to companies of alternative electricity providers will not be discussed after consultation of the relevant Minister with the MP. The second question will be discussed with number 548/28-2-2017, the first question of the Parliamentary Attica of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Friday Christophilopoulos to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the unprecedented delay in the awarding of new pensions. Mrs Christophilopoulou, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-09-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, you know that an amendment was tabled last night on the subject of the topical and urgent question, and I must tell you that, when this timely issue was tabled on 28-2-2017, Minister, there had already been the first call by ELSTAT on the problem. So there I was asking you what you were going to do with the new calculation. You have brought an amendment to a patch and I do not know why you have brought this amendment. To reach 2020, so that ELSTAT can determine how to pay pensions under the Katrugalos Act. But let's see how things went down, Minister. For the law of Katrugalos was first tabled to the Greek people as a plan, in January 2016. From then on, until May when you voted for the law, a very serious government had to notify ELSTAT, cooperate with it and have seen, if what you called - not us because we voted against - your Members to vote. So it's not just atrocious law of Katrugalou. It is not only the ESS and it cuts pensions, it has not only the cut-off of the personal difference for old pensioners, but it is also a great thing for young pensioners. Mr Minister, did you bring an amendment last night, which you had leaked five days ago, to do what? Like I told you, to go ball. Where's Mr. Katrugalos today, Mr. President? Mr. Katrugalos escaped because his law is falling apart. And not only does it collapse, but it collapses from everything we discuss later, from an unfunctioned administrative chaos that has been caused. The question, however, is that tens of thousands of pensioners have been held hostage for months because you have not done the right thing. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. And not only that, but the law was passed in May and arrived in November, Minister, to get to tell ELSTAT to deal with the matter. What exactly are you doing? Learning magicians of bad time. I think you'd be more useful to your law firm and you should think about what to do. So I think, Minister, that you have some answers, although I do not know what you can answer. The law wants a zero base and a deal.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-09-S1-commons.u14	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-09-S1-commons.u15	For the need to answer your question, Mrs Christophilopoulou, I asked to have the relevant correspondence with ELSTAT. You obviously have also assumed that the relevant provision of the law was not formulated by people who do not know about the functioning of ELSTAT and the issues of the National Analogue Authority. I would like to say with this that the relevant wording of the law was submitted not by ELSTAT, of course, but by the relevant departments of the Ministry, who know the relevant issues. And it is in line with the relevant wording in international literature. Of course, the methodology is not the same everywhere, but the literature put in mind by the relevant departments of the Ministry has shown that the wording in question is correct. From 24 May, the Ministry's director responsible addressed ELSTAT with a view to making the relevant consultations, so that we can safely have the correct choice of the relevant factor. It is not something that one can view as a sloppy move or a suspect. The debates with ELSTAT took place at successive meetings since then and, indeed, this is a difficult subject, it has dealt very much with the experts, the way in which the right factor was chosen, and that is what happened, and we have come up with the studies carried out by ELSTAT and the suggestions in this way of calculation. Because while the rate of annual wage change in international bibliography is a factor offered for the purpose to be accomplished under the law, the available data are not available, because, like ELSTAT, announced relatively few days ago, it differs from the labour cost indicator. While ELSTAT, i.e. it has a labour cost index, does not match the annual wage-change index. For this reason, scientifically speaking, the methodology for drawing up the rate of wage change has been chosen in line with the change in the consumer price index. You do not need to look for other reasons about finding and trying to find the right factor. It was, in fact, a difficult job, and that's why it took so long, if you counted on it in May how long it took to get all this work done. Of course, ELSTAT has started methodically examining the issue from about November, when the co-operating bodies, i.e. the National Recognition Authority, the Ministry's Services and ELSTAT, ended up in November. They began in November to process much more specific, more specific research, on the basis of which it was used to come up with the proposal, which we submitted after this treatment with the relevant amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-09-S1-commons.u16	Mrs Christophilopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-09-S1-commons.u17	Minister, I have never accused either myself or the Democratic Incorporation of this methodology. We make this criticism in the Katrugalu law for all the methodology. In fact, in my question, what am I telling you? I tell you that a comparison of similar systems in other European countries requires time. I mean, I recognize that there are similar systems. What I'm telling you. Today you told me you weren't late. I accept the President's oral address on 24 May. To accept it in good faith. Please, can you submit to the House - if that is the case, Mr President, may I put a written question or a request for a document - the particulars of this letter? Because it makes me a terrible impression, if you knew the problem and the inappropriate one, because what you are doing with the amendment, you could not anticipate it in the law. So, did you know it was hard or didn't you know? Either you didn't know or you knew and you fooled us. Because if you knew the difficulty of the operation, you should have put a transitional period in the law. And he speaks to you as a Member of a party which since the first day, since November 2015, Mr President, we had called for dialogue, we had tabled proposals. However, the question is not whether we have tabled proposals. It's about what you guys did. Today tens of thousands of pensioners are in line. They're waiting for recognition. Say something about it. How do you intend, on the basis of this amendment you have tabled and on the basis of the tails of the pensioners created, who are waiting to receive their pensions - most of them have not even received a temporary pension, Mr President, in the days we are living - these people will be served? When will the tails for the identification of the fictitious years be served? And you know that very well. Answer me. When will these people be able to serve on the basis of these patches that you do?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-09-S1-commons.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the above Western theory, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, forty-four students and students and four educational attendants of the Athens Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-09-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mr President. The provisional pension we have paid under the law is a maximum of EUR 768. There is therefore a possibility of paying a decent temporary pension, which is based, in other words, on previous provisions of your own government's previous laws, which, as you know, paid as a temporary pension 80% of the one corresponding to the earnings of the last month. These remunerations could also be minimal, they could have been maximum. They could be the remuneration of a part-time employee, they could also be very low-grade earnings. Because we have known very well in recent years that wages have collapsed. So by comparing this - I do not have any statistics to see - I think that the temporary pension we are paying may be better in some cases, and in some cases it may be smaller. However, the applications submitted for retirement, Mrs Christophilopoulou, have been observed that close to 30% are rejected, because no conditions are met for the pension to be granted. As far as the numbers you say are concerned about fifty thousand or fifty thousand or sixty thousand in waiting, I will therefore tell you that they are much smaller pensions, which are satisfied when it is easy to determine the correctness of the data, that is to say, when they meet the conditions of the pension law, and that is then granted as a temporary one. I have to clarify something that reasonably raises questions and doubts in people, as to what we have put into the Pension Recalculation Act. It is clear that there is no need for a new rate to recalculate pensions. The rate is needed for what we expect to end up with ELSTAT, which is now entering with an amendment, i.e. the rate is needed for the pensions of those who are applying for a pension after 13 May 2016. He only needs it for them. So we have no problem with time, because we are in the time frames. Indeed, it has been a seven-month period, we must respond quickly, but it is not about old pensions, because old pensions are calculated on the basis of the pension wage, which is thus determined by the previous statutes of the individual funds. Therefore, there is no problem with the payment of pensions, because the new type as identified and to be voted on by Parliament will enable pensions to be issued directly to those who for the first time request pensions after 13 May 2016. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-09-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the topical and urgent question in this House on Friday 10 March 2017. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 560/6-3-2017 by MP Laconia of New Democracy Mr Athanasios Davakis to the Minister of the Interior about the restoration of natural disaster damage in the Municipality of Eurota. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question by MP Achaias of the Democratic Association of the PASOK - DIMAR Mr Theodoros Papatheodorou to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the unconstitutional and extra-academic criteria for the selection of candidates to the Greek Open University. 3. Eleni Zaroulia to the Minister of the Interior on the subject: "The Municipality of Kavala legalises the pseudos in a tourist exhibition in Constantinople". 4. The Question No 573/7-3-2017 by MP Aitolokarnania of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Nikolaos Moraitis to the Minister of Interior about the danger of the national network of Amphiochia - Lefkada - Prevezas - Igoumenitsa. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question raised by Mr Georgios Vlachos with regard to the proposals and requests of the Municipalities of the Mediterranean in view of the consultation on the renewal of the Athens International Airport Convention "Eleftherios Venizelos" with the Greek State for the period 2025-2055. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Argolidas of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Manatis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy on the activation of the decision on pilot study of the Argos' (ZOE) zone. 3. The Question No 575/7-3-2017 by the Member of the People's Association - Golden Dawn, Ilias Cassidiari to the Minister of Finance, concerning the provocative reduction of the special solidarity contribution for political persons. 4. The Question No 571/7-3-2017 by the Independent MEP Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister of Economy and Development about the beer case and whether there are a jury in the Competition Committee. 5. H under number 405/30-1-2017 a topical question by MP Grevenes of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Christos Beyala to the Minister of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, on the transition to the digital signal for large parts of the province. 6. The current question by MP Achaias of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos to the Minister of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information on the recognition of a pre-service at the "ERT SA." for employees of D.D.64/2006. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdos to the Minister of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information on ELTAs and the payment of public debts. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by No 2746/20-1-2017 of the Independent MP from Athens Mr.Theocharis Theocharis to the Minister of National Defence, concerning the decommissioning of the Greek Defence Systems (ESA) by granting the destruction of old ammunition to a private person. Before giving the floor to Mrs Christophilopoulou again for her other question, I would like to inform the House of the following: The first under number 554/3-2017, a topical question by MP Kilkis of the New Democracy, George Georgios Georgios Georgiodas to the Minister of Culture and Sport, regarding the design for the abolition of the Antiquities Literature Kilkis, will not be discussed due to the absence of the Minister responsible abroad. The thirteenth question, with number 338/13-1-2017, on the prospects for the residence of the twenty eight islands that upgrades the national sovereignty and strengthens the sovereign rights of the country, will not be discussed due to the absence of the relevant Minister abroad. The first under the number 553-3-2017 topical question of the first cycle of the MP Heraklion of the New Democracy, Eleftherios Aygeakis to the Minister of the Interior, concerning the problem of road accidents, the strengthening of traffic education and the better implementation of the Road Traffic Code (K.O.K.), it will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Minister responsible and it will be redefined for discussion. Also, the seventh question under number 461/8-2-2017, the second question of the Athens MP of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Helen Zaroulia to the Minister of the Interior, on the "terrorist attack with kalashnikov against men of MATs", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the relevant Minister and will be redefined for discussion. The tenth under number 434/2-2-2017 a topical question for the second cycle of the Athens MP of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr.Ilias Panagiotaras to the Minister of the Interior, on the "blonde action by Turkish agents and their representatives in Thrace", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister responsible. The fourteenth with number 430/31-1-2017, a topical question for the second-cycle question by MP II of the Democratic Association of PASOKs - DIMAR Mr. Georgios Arvanitidis to the Minister of the Interior, concerning the significant reduction of firepower in the Regional Unit of Thessaloniki, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister responsible. It will now be discussed in the eighteenth year under No 441/6-2-2017, the topical question of the Attica of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Paraskevi Christophilopoulou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the suspension of the insurance law on blocks until the removal of the injustices caused by its distorting application. Mrs Christophilopoulou has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-09-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I should like to begin by pointing out in our previous debate that not everyone gets a temporary pension. I do not say that as an answer to you, but as a given one. I kept the numbers you told me and I'll come back. Because you also mentioned the issue of industrial relations, which threatens insurance, I would like to say that today there is a front page in KATHMERINA for low wages, which are a bomb in the funds. We know, we know, it's a problem of sustainability. What we are claiming is that in this way, the way the Katrugalou law was enacted and, as it is implemented, it does not give any solution, on the contrary worsens the situation. I have this connection to my question about blocks, because, Minister, what you have tried to solve is a great fear that, instead of solving this, you have created a further problem. What do I mean? I mean, the problem that exists over time with the blocks of work contracts is that it often hides a dependent job, but there are other times that it is a clean project contract. There is, for example, the engineer who makes a house on an island and a building in Athens, who, based on what you are supposed to do to solve it, now comes to be considered as an employee. So, the way you went to solve the blocks, by closing the eye on those who work with blocks, you were harming them first. Why? Why with all this salt of double contributions that have been paid, what have we got? We have an increase in black and undeclared work, because many of them are being pressed, as you have made them hostages of employers worse than they were in the past. What about them? They are being pushed by employers to work black, black work is growing, public and insurance resources are being lost and everyone is finally losing. People lose themselves and we have closures. You yourself - I do not want to invoke it, you can tell the House yourself - you have said how many insured people closed their books, of course for too many reasons, but one of them is the way you have tried to solve an existing problem, which has become worse with what you have done. I would like you to tell us here today in Parliament what exactly you intend to do, how this circular goes, what you intend to do about the future and whether you will possibly accept proposals, which arise from the case law of other criteria that could reduce the situation and go to much more operational solutions.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-09-S1-commons.u22	Mr. Petersburg, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-09-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr President. What I said, Mrs Christophilopoulou, a few days ago from the same position here in Parliament, is that despite the impression that what is true is that those who closed this year's blocks were fewer than those who closed last year, if I remember well, and yet the cases that one chooses to close blocks vary approximately. It's always been every year. So it did not happen this year because of our order. What we have tried is to give an opportunity, if you like, a pretext for those who were employed with a dependent job as if they were freelance professionals and who were burdened with the burdens. We gave this as a tool to good-faithed employers, who could seize the opportunity and be lawful. Because, as I have said on several occasions, all those involved in social security are finally aware, it was not a criterion of joining the dance of employees if the way in which they were paid was on a block. The competent IKA bodies for employed work cases involving a block, while having to be dependent on work, were faced with fines and surcharges for the employers involved. That's what was done against Coron. Therefore, I say again that we have not come to change the legal criteria for the qualification of employees. We have given a tool to better manage these issues by free professionals, generally from small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, in terms that bring back to a significant extent or that can bring back at least fair and not unfair competition, because this does not lead to good results or the economy. That's what I said. When all the blurred points are cleared up, because there is also a confusion that causes false articles, the positive results of this effort will be seen. I think that there can be, if we all make a good contribution to the implementation of this provision. I conclude with one assumption in your observation that an insured person can happen, while his contribution has been calculated on the basis of his activity as a freelance professional, if he had such an income base, becoming an APR and is called as an employed person, and during the same period he has been asked to pay an additional levy above that which corresponds to him. This can indeed be the case when this is the case. However, we have to see that this case is very soon resolved by the liquidation of the insurance contributions that one really has to pay, which is when the net income data are exported with the newest tax declaration to be drawn up by the General Secretariat of Revenue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-09-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, too. Mrs Christophilopoulou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-09-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr President. On the matter of insurance clearance, it is true that "live me to eat a clover", Minister. We have a double-taxation problem, and we say who will do that. You referred to the well-being employer before. You know what everybody's gonna do? I will not say that there are no good employers, nor are we who demonise business and business. However, we know very well that there is too much to be done by poor employers outside the labour market too. We should put things in a row. First of all, the black paper I said before is linked and fired. Do you know why he's gonna fire him? He'll fire him because instead of paying the 13% contribution, he'll go to the TEBE, to the OAU, and he'll pay a lot less by taking someone else. So there is the problem that you have created with the blocks and with regard to how many people will leave the system, because they will decide that it does not suit them and work on black work, and in relation to extortion that will normally be carried out by employers, the bad guys - I am not all saying - on the workers. And the burden of proof will ultimately be borne by the worker on the basis of the arrangements you have brought. The case law, which you know, has set a number of criteria. Your regulation - and I say this to you - only has one: the number of employers. There's time. There's the place. There's a way. There's a lot of evidence about the case you can take to help and make something. Finally, there are also proposals to unlock the problem of a market which at the moment with the great contributions - because some of the self-employed have been reduced, but there is an important part of medium, small and medium-sized enterprises, simple businessmen, traders and everyday life - is slaughtering. The Democratic Reconciliation has tabled proposals in the dialogue. I want to remind you. And by the way, answer me, because some of them could be accepted. The freezing of debts until 31 December 2016. This can be combined and stopped if we have reincorporated those who lost the 100 dose adjustment. Granting insurance information and ability so that they can have health care if someone had stopped and may now start paying their contributions at least a little - a bit. So give a motive to man, who can't pay the contributions, to come in and get in. Give me an insurance motive. For those who are over sixty-seven - and you know very well that there are merchants and crafters, who are over sixty-seven and owe to the OAU and cannot receive a pension - we would say for those years that they have paid contributions - twenty years, twenty-five years - to give them, Minister, proportionally, something else. Why should they take it from the social income of solidarity? Some people may not deserve it. They've worked these years. They paid contributions these years. If you want, make this arrangement, which we recommend, so that a world that is currently suffering and has no pension and care can be reduced.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-09-S1-commons.u26	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-09-S1-commons.u27	With regard to the freezing of debts, Mrs Christophilopoulou, and the reintegration of those who have lost regulations, I have said on several occasions and can confirm it quickly that there is no way that the CRL will turn against insured persons who have real inability to pay contributions. That's the criterion. For those who can make contributions and do not do so, there cannot be this discretion and tolerance. And it is good that there is no tolerance, because the CRL is indeed with its good function, which has been greatly improved and that makes sense, otherwise it is working in the first period, and it is gaining experience and working better in the next few years, it has a very good job and has contributed greatly to the improvement of revenues and will also lead us to a positive result on the financial data of the CFD. So we can't go and never said we'd go to a general debt freeze. In practice, however, this is entirely the case with actual data on the possibilities of the insured, as we are approaching the debt on the basis of the income and assets of the debtor, and we are already dealing with this with good results. And from the point of view of the insured debtor, we don't persecute someone who can't respond. With regard to reintegration, we have also given directions and are applying cases where some have lost the contribution for intangible reasons, and that is already the case. It also happened to the OSCE, because that is where most problems arise, to the free traders. This rule is observed by the CRL. For the granting of information, I really think that there is no such case of loss and I have told everyone to come to EVA, to pay their contributions, because they can no longer, those who could, because they could not pay the contributions, and that is a great step to go to the next, have full information. For over sixty-seven, there is a provision in our law to pay pension. When one pays the OAU up to a maximum of EUR 20,000 due, it is possible - it is an old provision - to repay the balance of EUR 20,000 from future pensions. Therefore, with the data they have, the time periods, because they have applied at earlier times and could get backwards and a high height, they can take advantage of this opportunity. A lot of people don't know that. I invite them to do it. With regard to the other point of your proposal, which is also my own thought and we are discussing it, but we are discussing it in the context of the agreement we are trying to have on these matters as well, it is a question that we can really see, but not as a general situation and direction, because we will remove fundamental principles from the social security system, we will abolish universality and compulsoryity if we come to the point where we can get a pension in line with what we want to do for years. You obviously don't mean that. We don't have that opinion, neither do we you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-09-S1-commons.u28	No, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-09-S1-commons.u29	It is a case that we need to see about the extraordinary situation in which the country was found and many were unable to pay. We need to see this. It's thoughts I have and I'm talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-09-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, too. The sixth question by number 520/23-2-2017, the second question by the Member of Parliament for the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Ioannis Koutsoukos - who, as we have heard, also had an accident and we wish him a rapid recovery - to the Minister of Finance, on the'silence of Mr Tsakalotou and the government's commitments', will not be debated as a result of an impediment by the Minister of Finance, Mr Tsakalotou. Nor will the 11th question, under number 435/2/2017, be discussed in the second parliamentary cycle of Athens - Golden Dawn Mr. Helen Zaroulias to the Minister of Finance, on the "definition of judge at the Administration of the Overseas", due to the impediment of the Minister of Finance Mr. Tsakalotou. The sixteenth under number 439/6-2-2017 topical question by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Finance regarding the transfer of users of PPC to companies of alternative electricity providers will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister. Nor will the seventeenth question, number 498/20-2-2017, be discussed in the context of the second question of the Athens MP, Mr. Georgios Amyras, on the 'SIEMENS' case. We will not discuss the twelfth with number 367/20-1-2017 a timely question by Evia MP of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Nicholas Michou to the Minister of the Interior, on the "inadmissible displacement of thirty-six thousand seven hundred sixty-sixteen Greek children from the nursery stations", due to the unsuccessful obligations of the Minister of Home Affairs Mr. Skourletis. At the same time, the third question under number 556-3-2017 will not be discussed in the context of a topical question by the Deputy Minister of Finance from the Greek State of the outstanding loan contract of the Athens Concert Hall (MOMA), due to the obstruction of the Deputy Minister of Finance Mr. Juliarakis. We will not discuss the second question with No 2787/23-1-2017 question of the circle of petitions by the First Vice-President of the Parliament and Member of the House of Greece of the New Democracy Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity concerning the "management and exploitation of the real estate of the Ministry of Health and Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity", due to the impediment of the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity Mr Ahtsoglou. Nor will the third question be discussed under number 446/18-10-2016 question of the cycle of petitions by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOKs - DIMAR Mr Vassilios Kegeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the "serious problems faced by farmers", due to the impediment of the Minister for Rural Development and Food Mr Evangelos Apostolos, who is outside Athens. However, the second question will now be discussed under number 557/6-3-2017 in the second cycle of the Member of Parliament of the Republican Association of PASOK - DIMARK KEgeroglou Vassiliou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the intentions of the Ministry to amend Article 20 of Law No4387/2016 on the reduction of pensions, even on the minimum agricultural income or the suspension of pension payments for hereditary self-government. Here, Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-09-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr President. We wish for a quick recovery to Yannis Koutsoukos, who indeed - I visited him yesterday - had this accident, but will soon be with us. I hope Mr Tsakalotos can come and answer his question, because it is a serious matter. Mr Minister, and from what you have been discussing today with Mrs Christophilopoulou's two questions, but also from what you have been dealing with the insured, from the amendments that you have tabled to the House since May, which was adopted by Mr No4387, it appears that the preparation that was needed and, above all, the detailed, substantiated and substantial proposals we have tabled have not been taken into account. And, of course, the lack of a proportionate study has been seen by what you said today that it was the reason why the factor has not yet been calculated. The rate of the pension issue has not been determined ten months later. This is the absolute failure of a law! This law in Article 20 provides: If a pensioner has a minimum income - whatever source - I have chosen and spoken about a minimum agricultural income, because thousands of pensioners have a small agricultural property or a minimum aid for it - they lose a large part of their pension, while at the same time paying insurance contributions for the extra income they have and they do well. There is also the second paragraph, which says: 'If a pensioner undertakes work or activity in general government bodies, his pension is completely suspended'. Because the interpretation of the activity in the general government concerns the school committees up to a municipality's joint venture, or the municipality's own competences - and we are talking about elected, but also unelected people, who are appointed by the municipal councils - there is a need for clarification on this issue, because it is not foreseen that even if they resign from the compensation - if such compensation is provided for, because it does not mention whether they receive compensation or compensation - if a EUR 500 compensation is provided in a case of EUR 100, 50 and waived from that compensation, it does not have any effect on its pension. That's not foreseeable. It needs clarification. I am also referring to two specific issues. One is that under the 2010 Act the tenants of this category were protected, the tenants who had at least one minor child, and now with paragraph 5 of Article 20, which we are debating, only applies to those who have exploited this provision, otherwise the polytect is not protected. For the pensioners of the OGA, we have discussed too many times. For at least one period until they transfer their property, as provided by the European Union regulation, irrespective of the amount of agricultural income, pension is cut. We want clear answers, because these issues concern citizens, and I think your answer will be useful.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-09-S1-commons.u32	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-09-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr President. The amendments are tabled after the law has been passed. That is not paradoxical. It is logical that the amendments should be tabled to resolve implementation issues and a number of practical issues, which since the vote on No.4387 I had said that they would be needed. And now that you're asking me, I'm telling you, there's still going to be some clarification and ministerial decisions. There is a series of topics in which we can, in the best possible and effective way, implement a huge task involving social security on this scale. However, I did not see your suggestions on the issues you are pointing out, Mr Kegeroglu. Your refusal at that time was universal and perpendicular. So you did not get into the process of suggesting different things to us in the individual issues you are now asking. The law speaks of those after 13-5-2016 leaving working life, employment, activity and retired. Self-government have been elected before the law, so their inclusion in the provisions does not concern them with a reduction in wages. In other words, what you say and how the self-government has given us - a number of bodies, not to say by name - participation as an activity in a number of committees and in self-government projects is not considered to be part of which the law provides for a reduction in pensions. I say this now, as I said yesterday when I met with the Central Association of Municipalities of Greece. I saw more than a hundred mayors in my office and told them in general what I am saying to you, that there is no case of reducing pensions in these categories. It makes no sense to have such consequences for these cases. I think it was self-evident. I said, if I have to, I'm going to make a cyber-circuit. If that is not enough - I do not think it will be enough - we will even have legislation with an amendment. Life is wider than the imagination that the legislator can have and a law and its provisions can never cover. That is why they need interpretative circulars and, if necessary, interpretative laws.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-09-S1-commons.u34	Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-09-S1-commons.u35	Minister, you must give clear answers. Neither can your circular nor even your credible statement in Parliament change the law. It needs to change the law. To start with the people who deal with the public. First of all, no matter how old someone was elected, this period is by mayor's decision or municipal council decision. So it's thought he's now taking office. And since it is now taking office, paragraph 2 is very clear. And I wouldn't say anything. I would say, 'The Minister said so, we are moving forward'. Below, however, the law says - and this has implications - that anyone who is active in the general government must tell the ECA so that he can be cut off. And if he tells the HR, then we will have infidelity for the employee who will receive the application to judge her that you don't have to, because you think that with a circular you can change the law. So at least you said. I can't believe you believe it, because first of all you're one of the good lawyers. So you don't believe it. Why do you say so? Why don't you bring a provision to amend this article, which is unwitting? Unless it's in the context of your agreement with the troika. Say it clearly: "We can't change it" or "It's not, and we can, and we have to change it." A retired citizen on the school board - he does not have to be elected - has this impact. It is, I think, a matter for you to bring in an amendment, as you have brought in - and you are doing well - the insurance capacity, after the question I asked you, which you did not come to answer because of a workload 15 days ago. And you did well to bring her in. And it is right that you said that everything that has been wrongly voted on in a law must be corrected by an amendment. Sure. But when we tell you when the law is being passed, we make suggestions to you... And you're making a big mistake, because even Mr. Katrugalos, whom I do not like politically at all, from this Stepma said that the only ones who put forward proposals for insurance is the Democratic Compact. But that's not the object. People know. The object is to see what's going on here. So, for retired people, who have a minimum income from somewhere, will you cut them 40%? Do they have to go tell the FBI? For farmers who retire after May, is the protection that exists for those who are before, as you have already said and mentioned in a paragraph? It is a big deal, because these days there is a process of changing the rights of aid. If, therefore, the protection for farmers who are to retire from May onwards and who have applied for and who have completed sixty-seven years, they should be subject to a procedure to amend their rights. And that is why your position and your response to this matter is of great value. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-09-S1-commons.u36	So do we. Mr. Petropoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-09-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. Indeed, the circular does not abolish law and it would not be possible for me to say that. However, the circular has the presumption of legality and has a regulatory influence on the effective administration. In that sense, the circular operates within the framework of the law with interpretative effect for points requiring clarification and guidance to the civil servants who are required to carry it out. The law cannot exhaust the real life. You can't fit the reality into two sets. Here too, we need a process and application, as the lawmaker does. And as such a lawmaker, it is also called upon that the EPC should implement the law, and therefore its officials and officials. I explain: There is no need for the law on something that is self-evident and has the answer to the very functioning of the law. When an income comes out of economic activity, then there is indeed a question of not having a pension and accepting it, so that it becomes richer when it comes to receiving the pension and the income it forms. And that was always the function of the legislator in social security and under previous laws. That is not new, that is, we are not creating anything new in the question of the application of these provisions. Law No.3863 and Law No.3865 were laid down. In fact, there was a suspension of the pension, if you were under fifty-five years old, in general, a complete suspension and not a reduction. It was planned for those employed in the public sector to reduce by 70% and not 60%, as provided for in L.4387. In other words, there is also a more positive 10% pension payment based on Law No.4387 compared to Law.3863 and Law.3865, mainly, because it concerns civil servants - your government. For farmers, I have said - it is time, of course, and we need to see what we are doing with younger people - that for those who were working in the agricultural, livestock or fisheries sector until 31 December 2016 there is no consequence of the payment of pensions. It is true - and I reply to another part of your question - that those who had left with Law No4387 also retained their pension if they had then taken over activities which did not fall under the previous provisions. Because, under the above provisions, there was no person insured with the OAU to start a new business without a reduction in pension. And then there was also a break-up or an increased contribution. As appropriate, the effects of a fund were variable. It is a question of what we are doing for farmers who are retiring from now on. What we need to see in any case is related to agriculture and to the policy that we must choose on agricultural production and livestock production. The questions of rights and aid also relate to the question you are saying and wants a particular study in cooperation with the rural world, because they differ from those in the rural world. Others say there is a cut, so the lot can pass on to young people. Others say we can't. I personally have not come up with what is best suited to the need for the rural economy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-09-S1-commons.u38	What's the law?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-09-S1-commons.u39	So we'll see about that. I think we will end up in the year. No one has to retire. It can wait to see in total in our agricultural policy and this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-09-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, too. I would like to inform the House that the ninth Question No 467/10/10/2017 by Evia MP of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Nicholas Michou to the Minister of Health, on the deliberate improperness of fulfilling a covenant that provides for the establishment of an oncological clinic in Chalkida, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr Polakis. Fifth, under No. 552/3-2017, a top-level question for the Z's Vice-President of the Parliament and MP of Athens, Potamios Spyridon Lykoudis, to the Minister of Health, on the degraded state of health, will also not be discussed due to the impediment of the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Polakis. The nineteenth under number 402/27-1-2017 a topical question for the second cycle of MP in Thessaloniki, Mr.Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister of Health, concerning the reduction of the cost of diagnostic tests for breast cancer, will not be discussed for the same reason. The Fifteenth, with number 333/12-1-2017, is a topical question by MP Achaias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Theodoros Papatheodorou to the Minister for Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, on the financing of journalists and websites, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister for Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information Mr Nikolaos Papapas. The fourth under number 527/24-2-2017 a topical question by the Member of Parliament of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Stavros Tassos, on the Polypowerful Regional Hospital of Tilos, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister of Health Mr. Xanthi, due to unsettled commitments. The first question with number 1481/24-11-2016 question of the circle of petitions by MP II of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Georgios Diakias to the Minister of Health, concerning complaints about high rates of Cesarean crossings in Greece without medical justification, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Health Mr. Xanthi, due to the unforeseen obligations. The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-09-S1-commons.u41	With the consent of the House at 10.45 p.m. the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday, 10 March 2017 at 10 p.m., on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny: (a) the debate on topical questions; and (b) the debate on no 12/10/20-2-2017 on the current question of Members of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: "Workers and pensioners experience every day the gaps and burdens of the new insurer", according to the agenda distributed.
