ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour to inform the House of the current Questions Release of Friday 20 January 2017. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by number 356/17-1-2017 of the Second Vice-President of the Parliament and MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Georgios Borough to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs about the rename of the Department of Environmental and Natural Resources of the University of Patras, based in Agrinio, in a Department of Environmental Engineering. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 344/16-1-2017 by MP II, New Democracy, Catherine Papakostas - Ironropoulou, Minister for Health, concerning the discontent of the citizens for the EEA and the Public Health Care. 3. The Question No 350/16-1-2017 by Evia MP of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Nicholas Michou to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights about the "provocative burning of the Greek flag on live television". 4. The 355/17-1-2017 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMARK KEGEROGOU to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the delay of public works programmes for two hundred and seventy-four municipalities and complaints on the management of programmes already implemented in refugee hospitals. 5. The Question No 358/17-1-2017 by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, concerning measures to be taken on the disasters in agricultural crops in areas of Crete due to snowfall and ice. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 345/16-1-2017, by MP, Athens, Nea Spyridonos - Adonidos Georgiadis to the Minister of Finance, concerning mismanagement issues in the Hellenic Defence Systems (ESA). 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 351/16-1-2017 by MP Messinia of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Dimitrios Koukoutsis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the abolition of the PDO for Kalamata olive oil. 3. The question by No 348/16-1-2017 by MP Argolidas of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMARMAR Mr.Ioannis Manatis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the resumption of the extension of the management plan for the Vinzotrat, which directly jeopardises the viability of the Greek seas. 4. The Question No 359/16-1-2017 by MP Aitolokarnania of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Nikolaos Moraitis to the Minister of Health on the payment of workers cleaners to the services of the General Hospital of Artas. 5. The Question No 362/17-1-2017 by the Independent MEP Mr.Iasonos Fotidas to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport on the timetable for the implementation of the Piero dam in the Prefecture of Achaea. 6. The 319/9-1-2017 topical question by MP Evros of New Democracy, Anastasios State, to the Minister of the Interior, concerning the deterioration - abolition of the Tychro Border Guard Department in the Prefecture of Evros. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The 328/10-1-2017 topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, about the education of refugees. 8. The 325/9-1-2017 topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Union of Centres Mr.Ioannis Saridis to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy on the approval of a medium-term business plan for the Port Authority of Thessaloniki (OLTH). REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 8/3-10-2016 by the Independent MEP Mr. Efstathiou (Stathhi) Panagoulis to the Minister of the Interior about "falcons and chemicals that the government teaches us what democracy means". Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS We begin with the fifth under the number 336/13-1-2017 topical question of Attica, Mr. Georgios Mavrotas, Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the underfunding of the National Technical University of Athens. The question will be answered by the Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Mr Constantine Gavroglou. Mr. Black, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good morning, Minister. The question, as we have heard, is the worrying sub-funding of the National Technical University of Athens and is based essentially on the interview given about a week ago by the dean of the National Technical University, on the financial problems that are directly threatening, as he said, the proper functioning of the University. And, in general, the point is that state funding - essentially, the regular grant - falls by 30% of the fixed costs, as it says, in a time series of continuously reduced grants for the Polytechnic. Similarly, there is an increase in imported students, which has its impact mainly on feeding funds - an increase of 35% over the last five years - while feeding expenditure remains almost stable. This is not the first time we have heard that there is underfunding in general by higher education institutions. I saw the answer you gave the dean the next day. I also saw the statements you made and your introduction to the Rectors' Conference on 14-1-2017. And on this basis, I would like to ask you whether you think that the cash reserves of the National Technical University - which, in my opinion, will be to cover seasonal fluctuations in cash in time - can replace state funding. More specifically, I ask you, as you have seen in the text of the question, what alternative sources of funding do you think the universities can find. There are some things in the report to the Rectors' Conference. We'd like you to briefly tell us some things. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll be back in a minute, Mr. President. In fact, in the fifth of the six proposals on 14-1-2017 you have that you have to submit a plan for the exploitation and management of their assets. And on this basis, I would like to tell you that just last year, on 19-1-2016, the Polytechnic Foundation Council had submitted a draft Presidential Decree, which exists in the Ministry of Education, on the management and exploitation of Metsovian Polytechnic's property. And, finally, what are your general intentions - which is economic - on the tuition fees of postgraduate students to higher education institutions or on economies of scale that may result from divisions? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr. Mavrota. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Black, as always, you're very well read. Indeed, these were said at the Rectors' Conference on Saturday. And I think in an excellent cooperation climate, we have decided to move along these lines. The question of the state funding of universities is as you say. Apparently it's too low. For the first time this year it is stabilised by a very small increase. This shows a prospect of what we intend to do. I think that the interview given by the Polytechnic dean, with which I then discussed, as in the Rector's Committee, an excellent climate and with him, does not help. The request to double, at least, expenditure seems to me to be a request that does not help the debate. Not only is it not realistic, but it doesn't say anything, to be honest. The second is this. We should see the question of the financing of universities as a whole, not only within the state budget, that is, not just those which are included in the state budget. Funding higher education, as you well know, is an extremely complex project. Universities get too much money from the NSRF. Some universities now have an extraordinary grant from the European Investment Bank. The figures are known, they are also in the written answer. I don't want to get into these. The main thing is this. There has been a first contact with the Minister of Finance, Mr Tsakalotos, and with me, and we have decided to take a step towards simplifying the procedures of the PPE. That's the one. The second is that, once this is done, we should be able to find ways of uniform university revenue management. For feeding issues, the Ministry has decided the whole process to go to higher education institutions with a rationalisation, which, if you like, we can then discuss. Today the system is not so rationalized. As far as the alternative sources are concerned, I think that the most serious, particularly at the Polytechnic University, is the full utilization of its enormous legacy. In this respect, we need to move on to the President-in-Office's decree and, indeed, we will move it forward. I want two more things, Mr President, to say with your permission. The first is the question of teachers and postgraduate students. I know you will also agree that when we discuss postgraduate issues, the main problem is academic, academic and quality. We cannot set up postgraduate courses with exclusive reference to the subject of teachers, and in this Polytechnic it is one of the pioneers, because it has no tuition and academicity is the main element. The second is any registration fees such as those based on postgraduate costs. Most of the costs, as they do in several postgraduate, I think they're too rough. The third, of course, is that no child, no young person should stay outside the postgraduate due to financial difficulties, but we said it was academic. I would like to stress here that the postgraduate majority are one of the great successes of the Greek universities. That is not to be considered, because someone has a problem, that everything is problematic. Finally, there is a government decision and it will be announced in about ten days at the latest by the Prime Minister that a committee should be set up to study its education costs from preschools to doctors, so that, on the basis of the findings of the committee, the government will commit itself to shutting down the gap in expenditure over the next three years. We have discussed together, and I am truly glad that Potami is willing to participate with experts in this committee and, indeed, I look forward to cooperation not only with experts, which you will suggest to us, but also with other parties, in order to conclude the debate on this committee, which will precisely identify all the difficulties that you have mentioned for all the institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Mavrotta, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u6	Thank you very much, Minister, for the answer. I was pleased to hear that the issue of the legal person of private law will actually move forward to exploit the property of legal persons following the statement made by the Polytechnic Foundation Council last year, on the same day, on January 19, 2016. With regard to the doubling of the regular grant, however much it sounds excessive, I believe that the fact that it is already falling short of 30% of the inflexible fixed costs is something that may have to worry us somewhere in the middle of finding a golden incision. I, too, agree that there should be a lot of talk about the sources of funding for universities, a lot of discussion about who they might be. I say this because state subsidies see that they are being reduced, while universities, as living organisations, can be interconnected with research, production, can also play this role, the role of self-financing. This role could, in essence, also be played by this legal person under Law 4009/2011. In other words, we also take advantage of the research carried out at universities with patents, with intellectual rights, because there is rich research, which in many cases remains untapped. I say this in relation to universities, not so much to researchers, that we will have to find those structures. In relation to what you said about the PPE, it is indeed this debate with the Ministry of Finance that would be very useful, because we need to simplify procedures and harmonise procedures with the paying authority, because there is, as you know, a malfunction at this time. In relation to the suggestion you made at the Rectors' Conference, I have seen in one of the paragraphs that the Foundation Councils will effectively be abolished and replaced by the Regional Councils of Higher Education and that there will be one in each region if I understood well from the paragraph I have seen. I think this may have to be discussed a little more widely, because there will be some difficulties. For example, we know that in Athens we have a gathering of higher education institutions. I mean, we have the NSA. We have the Polytechnic. We have the University of Economics. We have Piraeus University. We have the two TEIs. We have the Haroscope. We've got the Geoponic. I mean, we have a lot of universities. The question is how to create a Regional Council of Higher Education, which accounts for nearly 70% of the university population. In other words, there is a very unequal distribution of EUR 1 million and all that. It's, I think, something that needs discussion. I only close two issues, which I put as food for thought. One issue is about self-issuers, as the institution is to be abolished in the first half of 2017. Should we consider an extension of this matter? The second is something for which I had bothered you before, if a solution has been found to a circular that was in existence on the development of some assistant professors to substitutes, without having to go through the permanentisation stage. This is something that exists in the law, but the circular that had come out before you had a little confused. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr. Mavrota. Minister, you have the floor for dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr President. With regard to the research and the possibilities you have said about funding, I fully agree that there are many possibilities, particularly through the procedures for providing services to society. But here, we must be very careful. Our aim should also be to involve new scientists. I know a lot of institutions are in this direction. The second is the use of patents not to privatise the results of research, but to be socialised, that is to say, to be part of society as a whole. The next issue is the question of the EPP. There was the first meeting, which was with Mr. Chakaloto, with me and you beat them down. Some simplification procedures have already been introduced. I consider this to be very important. The next stage is, as I have said, the single management. Now I'm going to talk about the regional councils. For the regional councils, which we are proposing, there will obviously be a debate. As you know, for the first time, he shared a detailed suggestion at the Rectors' Conference earlier, in order to have an opinion, and then sent to all members of the IOI, by e-mail. So we obviously ask for opinions. The main element of the regional councils is the principle of setting up the single area. They'll have people elected by the universities. They will have people elected by the TEIs per region. And they will have people elected by the research institutes. The single area is therefore not a model, it is a process of coexistence in these various institutions. Therefore, firstly, it achieves the possibility of coexistence between individuals coming from different bodies. The second is that the development of universities, TEI and research centres with the advantages of local institutions will be very high on the Regional Council agenda. With regard to Athens, you said, in fact, in Athens is a serious problem and I think that Attica can break into two or three regions. I think we'll solve this, it's a technical problem. The substance remains and I hope you will agree to the point. Now, with regard to the subject you had with me and fellow Members, he asks me to see what is going on, the issue of assistants, we will table a bill now on the state certificate of language, where we have additional provisions and there we will address this issue positively. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Minister. Before going to the next timely question, I should like to inform you that MP Nikolaos Dendias asks for permission from a short-day absence abroad from January 20th to January 21st 2017 for personal reasons. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u10	The House therefore approved the requested permission. I would also like to inform the House that of the fourteen topical questions that were to be discussed today, only three will be discussed. One has already been discussed. The eleven which will not be discussed are also confirmed by a document to the Bureau and by the Secretary-General of the Government, Mr Kalogerou. We enter the first question under number 340/16-1-2017 of the First Circuit of Aetolokarnania, the Radical Left Coalition, Maria Triantafyllou, to the Minister of the Interior, on the problems in the supply of the Aetolian Aetolakarnania that threaten the health of its inhabitants. The Minister of Interior will answer Mr. Panagiotis Skourletis. Mrs Triantafel, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u11	Good morning, everyone. Thank you, Mr President. Minister, this is the second time in about a semester, perhaps a little more, that the topical question with the same subject arises with the acute water supply problem of the Aetolian island. In fact, we constantly have a worsening situation. On New Year's Eve a physico-chemical phenomenon emerged with strong odor and blurredness. Manganese was detected and not heavy metals, as mistakenly mentioned in my question from the wrong information I had from the mayor on the next or the next day, I do not remember well. He also corrected it at the Municipal Council on 12-1-2017. I'm making it right now. I am tabling the same issue in parliamentary scrutiny, not only because of the latest development - I am referring again to the physico-chemical phenomenon - which we do not yet know exactly how it changes the data. We will tell the second part the objections from the Geological University and other bodies who have seen the phenomenon. But I am tabling it as a deepest need, in fact, for intervention by the increase in the consolidation of the climate of the second category of citizens in the region of Ioannina. People are tired, disappointed and distrusted, asking for answers, asking for relief, asking for a solution. We should be very careful. There is, of course, a project that has been integrated by the Region of Western Greece. We'll talk in second place about this. However, on the basis of the new data, I want to hear what the Ministry of Interior will say. It's a time-consuming problem. Let me stress here that since 2008 - I have been telling again, since 2008 - there has been a ban on how much. In other words, the people of Aitolikos since 2008 cannot drink water. It is an issue that I do not think we need to say something else. I know you're interested in getting all the evidence. I would like to hear your first approach and in the second part we will talk a little more about history and new data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mrs Triantafyllou. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs Triantafylle, I think you have described the real dimensions of a problem, which is unheard of but I would not say anything about this region. It is unacceptable, in any case, nowadays that there is no access to the natural good of water for the inhabitants of the Aetolian island. Unfortunately, the problem did not come up in one day, as you said, by opening the tap switches, where they found that water is inappropriate. We're talking about a problem over ten years. There are huge responsibilities, and everyone needs to take over their own, and first of all the Messolos Municipal Waste Water and Wastewater Operation, the Region, because it really cannot substitute the Ministry for these services. But be sure that he will do anything to help, but also finally check who have responsibilities. We cannot play either with health or, of course, do not have the opportunity to use water. As you may know, the JHA Messology project seeks a more permanent solution lately - because we are talking for over ten years that people are faced with this problem - has incorporated this project entitled "Improve water quality and water supply in the West Greece RDP 2014-2020 with a budget of 2.7 million, which includes two sub-projects, 1.5 million euros for the use of activated carbon filters and 1.2 million euros for the resolution of the source of Kefalovrysos. However, there are a number of studies by bodies, individuals, universities, who ask big questions if we are ultimately in the right direction towards the final solution to the problem. This means that we have to have a continuous monitoring of things so that we do not find out the problem when it has arrived and exceeded its limits. These are the intentions of the Ministry of the Interior. We will be in constant contact with the competent authorities. We will be helpful in this effort, so that we can launch a definitive solution. I repeat that there are huge responsibilities. The best thing they can do is to recognize it in front of the local residents themselves. We cannot talk about a project ten years later, looking for solutions when we know to a very large extent what the causes of the problem are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mrs. Triantafel, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u15	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, I think what you said about the close monitoring and control of all previous and future events, and of course about the assistance of the Ministry in whatever it takes is very important. I keep it, I think all the people in the area listen to us, and they hold it. In my view we need a more supervisory and more careful state. Turning a little into history, not to repeat it, but to say two or three points that I think are important. Since 2008 - as I said - while there is a ban on drinking, over time there have been multiple actions to restructure the source and water from the JHA. I would say that there was an endless move with interventions, with money given - around EUR 600 to 700 000 - without ever removing the ban on how much. It is of great interest to see the correspondence between the Health Department and DESAM. Of course, the problem is exacerbated by the 'CALL' and I will, of course, get to the work that has been done in the region, which is indeed concerned. Not only does this reflection appear to be apparent, but I will tell you that it also appears at the folk meeting in Aitolikos at the beginning of the problem but also at the municipal council. I will not, however, dwell on that, although it is important that technical services and scientists should stand in particular. It is the last phenomenon which, in my view, and from what I have read, is not justified enough. It's characterized as an emergency. The Geological University says that no one can answer with certainty the question of where the water pollution of the source came from and not even whether the phenomenon will be repeated. However, leaving aside the technical parameters, which are important, I think the problem is a political one, as you have put it. A social asset is denied by residents. I do not want to in no way - because we do not deserve - to enter the frame of inefficiency. I have asked the principle of responsibility. I am glad you do not just share, but you are also proposing control and responsibility. Everyone has to take responsibility. And I said that anyone who suggests something must take responsibility for his proposal. Knowing both our main objectives and local self-government - we are talking about a lasting state, we are talking about multi-level governance, we are talking about inter-level cooperation - I mean that we should be practical. Essentially and clearly, I will ask where funding and control are needed and what is essential from the central state. Where appropriate, the central state should be there to immediately relieve the people of whatever they need. I have to tell you here that there is enormous misinformation on the subject. It is an experience that I want to transfer to Parliament as well. There is a dissolutionary climate that some are unfortunately attempting in this local society too. They do not understand the criticality of the situation. I think it is very important that, as has been heard, the state supports and will support it. To understand that this government has another attitude to the problems. It should be understood that unanimity, unanimity in the direction of a definitive solution to this issue are the applicants. And I say again that coordinates need for the state to be a patronage, auditor and guarantor in the decisions of the competent authority at any time. However, we need to talk about a permanent solution. We need to focus on this. I would like to say this: I think we should clearly say that the state has every reason to control it. I will tell you the truth that as a Member I will be like Oistros in Joshua every time we have to control things in the past and in the future, so that people are sure that we are assisting and are always next to them. Therefore, I want you to study all the data very carefully. I'm sure you will. And I'd say that even a broader visit of yours to the area, the county, and even the particular area that has this problem, I think it would help if things don't go as we hope. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs Triantafylle, I honestly do not believe that today there are no scientific instruments and data to identify the real cause of the phenomenon. And everyone who is directly involved must not leave one day and start on their day to deal with this issue. It is, in fact, unacceptable to try to transfer responsibility to each other and to all of us together, not to organise our powers so that we can launch a definitive solution as soon as possible and respond to this issue. In addition, I would like to say to you as an information element, regardless of the specific issue, that tomorrow I will meet with the Regional Director of Western Greece, Mr Katsifara. The meeting is held on his own initiative. I do not know whether the cause of our meeting is this issue or other issues. I imagine there will be other, more general, problems in the region. I will, however, ask him to focus on all our efforts to address this issue. I think there is a common anxiety and perspective on things. Besides, it is one of the issues that do not fit different approaches. When an entire region has been deprived of what we have primarily agreed on, access, use in water and there is not much time now for it to be consumed, and so far, it has been possible only for domestic use and not for daily water consumption, you realise that there is no luxury of losing even a day when we are not attempting to respond to this issue. I think, therefore, that we will do what we consider to be as pressing as possible - I repeat, pressurising - so that we do not find ourselves in a situation where, after ten years, we find out the same problem, but move with concrete steps towards its resolution. For whatever element there is around this issue, which can fall into your own understanding - as I will ask the relevant departments in the region and the services of the Ministry of Interior - I will ask you to be in communication. The world must know, it must be informed, in order to achieve what you have said, to be able to unite all our forces in order to deal with the issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Before we go to the third and last topical questions, let me also for reasons of registration, as they are required to be recorded in the Minutes, to read out the list of topical questions that will not be discussed. Therefore, due to the absence of the relevant Minister abroad, the first question under number 335/13-1-2017 will not be discussed in the second cycle of the Parliamentary Serres of the New Democracy Mr. Fotinis Arabatzis to the Minister of Tourism on the "determination of the tourist economy of Samos and the rest of the islands of the north-eastern Aegean on account of the government indifference". Due to the obstruction of the Deputy Minister of Agriculture and Food Mr.Ioannis Tsironi, the second question under number 334/13-1-2017 will not be discussed in the context of a top-level question by the New Democracy MP, George Stylion, concerning action measures to deal with avian influenza and, likewise, the fourth question under number 343/16-1-2017 of the Second Cycle of the Parliamentary Lesvos of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr. Stavros Tassos, on compensation to 100% of the farmers and farmers of Lesvos for the great damage to the snow and the glacier. Also, due to the impediment of the Deputy Minister of Maritime Affairs and Island Policy Mr.Nectarios Santoriniou will not discuss the third with number 338/13-1-2017 a topical question for the first cycle of MP Pireos of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr.Nikolaos Kouzilou on the "perspective residence of the twenty eight islands that upgrades the national sovereignty and strengthens the sovereign rights of the country". Also, due to the obstruction of the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr Paul Pavlos Polakis, the fourth question with number 337/13-1-2017 will not be discussed with regard to the scope of the application of telemedicine in Greece, as will the sixth question under number 313/5-1-2017 for the second cycle of the Parliament of the Republic of Piraeus, Mr.Theodoros Megalonikou to the Minister of Health, concerning the risk of children and adolescents staying without treatment. Also, the second question under number 339/13-1-2017 will not be discussed in the context of a topical question from the Athens Parliamentary II of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Helen Zarulias to the Minister of the Interior, on the "terrorist attack by kalashnikov against men of MATs", due to the obstruction of the Deputy Minister Mr. Toska.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u19	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u20	Yes, Mrs. Zarulia. You want to express your objection, obviously. Here, you have the floor for a minute. Please be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u21	One and a half minutes, I'll need it, Mr. President. Today's timely question from the People's Association - Golden Dawn was addressed to the Ministry of Citizen Protection, which has been taken over by the "paskost" Toskas, in the place of an honest - even left - professor, Mr. Panoussi, who was coming to answer us, contrary to the current Minister, who also seems not to be speaking with MPs from an elected political party. However, he calls for anarchists' groups, which he calls 'collectivity', because according to him it appears that they are obviously related to those who throw molotov bombs and shoot at kalosnikovs often - densely in the center of Athens, which has turned into El Passo and murders have been committed, such as that of the Egyptian drug dealer, who, because of the fact that it was made by the comrades of the form of power, did not raise a question of racist crime, as would have been put under other circumstances. Really, where did it sound elsewhere in the world, Minister to call offenders in conversations instead of arresting them? So this question that the Minister avoids us from answering is about the injury of an Exarcheus police officer. There are very serious questions, Mr President, because it is not just whether there have been investigations into who, why and why. He refuses the leadership of the Ministry of Civil Protection to put additional police force unseen so that they can persecute the perpetrators who make these frequent attacks. And another very important issue is that the police gave publicity to the offenders from an adjacent camera of a store, even giving the address of the store. Why did he do that? Is it to burn the "comrade" to make their jobs undisturbed? What's going on in the police?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u22	Mrs. Zaroulia, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u23	I'm done.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u24	You will not now develop the whole question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u25	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u26	You could have been very precise, codified to say two - three things of the question. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u27	Listen, this is very simple. The people vote for SYRIZA and governs PASOK, votes for New Democracy and governs PASOK. Only Golden Dawn guarantees that its vote will not be lost, because Golden Dawn is fighting for Greece and the Greeks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u28	I therefore continue to read the list of topical and urgent questions which will not be discussed. Due to the obstruction of the Minister of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, Mr. Nicholas Pappas will not discuss the third with number 333/12-1-2017 a topical question of the second question of the Achaea MP of the Democratic Association of PASOK. - P.M.A. Mr. Theodoros Papatheodorou, Minister for Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, on the financing of journalists and websites. Also, there will be no discussion of the first question under number 91/5-10-2016 by the Second Vice-President of the Parliament and MP I of the New Democracy. Nikita Kaklamanis to the Minister of Migration Policy, on the program for the rental of apartments in refugees from the Athens Development and Tourism Promotion Company (ETA) and the sixth question under number 341/16-1-2017 of the Sixth MP of Piraeus, Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Finance, concerning the transfer of users of PPC to companies of alternative electricity providers. And the last question that will not be discussed is the seventh question under number 332-12-1-2017, the first time question from the Member of the President of the Larisa of the Potamion Mr. Konstantinos Barriotas, on the completion of the projects in the Mezzogiorno of Trikala. Last for today, the fifth will be discussed under No 342/16-1-2017, a topical question by the MP Magnesia of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Konstantinos Steriou, on the immediate treatment of problems from the recent bad weather in Skopelos and Alonissos. Mr. Steeriou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, this question is neither of a character nor of a populist nature. We are coming to show once again real problems, which arise from the lack of effective protection measures by your Government. So, Minister, in the last bad weather - which is bad weather, nobody says otherwise - the two islands of Sporades were actually found at the mercy of the real lack of political protection, but also capable of dealing with weather phenomena, which is the result of the anti-grass policy implemented by the government. So, Minister, the inhabitants of Skopelos and the Alonissos were found without electricity and water, without opening at least the main roads, without the necessary medical personnel. Let me point out here, Minister, that in Alonissos in the regional office there was and today there was only one doctor, in order to meet the needs of the whole island, so that this scientist would make two letters to the Prosecutor of Magnesia for the lack of medical staff. So, then, residents were left on snow phenomena. Minimum machinery and huge shortages to necessary staff, the dismantling of the IMPs and the CECs, the underfunding that continues in the municipalities have led to their nakedness from the necessary infrastructure. Let me mention attributes, Minister, that in addition to the lack of staff in the Municipality of Skopelos and Allonissos there are no technical services with negative consequences for design, operation and prevention. In fact, the lack of controls on the absence of technical services resulted yesterday, Minister - you probably have been informed - to drop the whole ceiling, I mean, from the Skopelos Municipal School, and thankfully it was break-in and there were no injuries. The delegation, Mr Minister of Civil Protection, to voluntary organisations and the regular use of private workshops and contractors lead to enormous difficulties in addressing the most severe weather phenomena. For six days, Minister, from 6 January to 12, Skopelos and Alonissos, the roads were completely closed. I should like to inform you that even today there are attempts to open up the last communication routes in the settlements, and that is because we had a small number of motor vehicles and reduced power. This, then, had another negative result, not being able to approach PPC’s workshops, to restore the damage to the electricity grid, with corresponding consequences for the provision of water to the inhabitants, but also for their heating. And Thessaly Region, Mr. Minister, has huge responsibilities, because despite its occasionally splendid announcements of readiness, in emergencies and backing up your anti-popular policy, it once again proves inadequate in infrastructure and media.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u30	Mr. Steeriou, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u31	Minister, we ask you: what measures will the government take to deal with the problems that continue today from the recent bad weather in Skopelos and Alonissos? What steps will you take to ensure that the necessary motor vehicles, the necessary infrastructure and the appropriate staff are provided to deal with the enormous problems faced by the inhabitants of the Northern Sporades? To conclude, Mr Minister, the record of damage to herbal, livestock and flocks which have collapsed and which the government has made progress in the immediate compensation of all those affected for 100% of the damage suffered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u32	Come on, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Steeriou, you have tabled this timely question today, obviously knowing that almost a week before I visited the island, and so I have a personal perception of things. It was last Friday - less than a week - that I was there. Of course, our country has been faced with a bad weather that has no precedent. I have not only heard this from Skopelos and the Alonissos. People of age told me that in the last thirty, forty years, they had never seen such a bad weather with snowfall. What does that mean? It obviously means that a given civil protection mechanism that exists, obviously reaches its limits when it has to deal with phenomena that appear in the country every three or four decades. And of course it wasn't just Skopelos and Alonissos. It was almost the whole of our country and already at this time we were talking, and until at least tonight, there was a severe snowfall in the Law of Ioannina, but also in western Macedonia. Nevertheless, I think that what the government has achieved is to have a good coordination, based on the means available and with all the services involved and under the coordination of the General Secretariat for Civil Protection, whether this was the police, fire-fighting, the Army, the EAW and the region. We could therefore - and this has finally been reflected in the results - and I do not mean the material damages, because they have not yet been recorded and their size will appear after the melting of the snows in each region - and we have had as much coordination as possible of the services involved, but we have not mourned victims. I would like to say this: look at the picture in the surrounding countries, which had similar waves of bad weather. We're talking about dozens of dead people. You want to say luck? It can also be done every time, because it also contributes. I repeat, however, that we have had a timely mobilisation of the services of the state. Therefore, as you know, these islands have been placed in an emergency very early state. There were therefore stepping stones from the Army, from the Firefighting, which remain on the island. And it's not true that the roads are still closed, because I was the one last Friday I went to, I saw people working, cutting trees, machines working. So you can make a review, which is based and says: "Children, the available media in a country that has been living under the conditions of the Memorandum Policies since 2010, are weak." But based on this reality, we have been able to achieve the best possible result. Especially for the two islands have been in 2016, within the framework of the responsibilities of the Ministry of Interior, by the CFP, the following investments. For Skopelos, the approval and disbursement of 82,500 euros for Alonissos 49,650 euros. Additionally in 2016 to deal with the 30,000 euros fund for Skopelos and 50,000 euros for Alonissos. And just last Tuesday I signed, on the basis of the latest theories, a disbursement of EUR 90,000 for Skopelos and EUR 60,000 for Alonissos, while as far as I know, in agreement with the Municipality and the project directorate of the Magnesia Region, the workshops responsible for recording the damage on the island are set up. These can be confirmed by both the competent authorities and the mayor and the region. The ELGA is doing the same at the moment, so that as soon as possible we will have a record of the damages and the compensation provided for. As you have said, this is without any popularism, as you have said, of a multiplier statement or of an impression. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr Constantine Steerios has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u35	Away from us, the mood for such statements, Minister. In the previous question by my colleague, you said that there is a sufficient amount of scientific resources and data today. I mean that, in fact, there was a weather phenomenon, which was, I will not say extreme, but great intensity. We say that the impact of this weather - certainly there will be consequences - would have been much smaller scope and intensity and address would have been better managed, Minister, if the municipalities had the necessary logistical infrastructure and staff adequacy, and if in conclusion, since you had as a Ministry and the Civil Protection timely information on the bad weather that comes, you have sent to the islands heavy machinery in good time. For this, Minister, was on the fourth day of bad weather, when the snow that was swept on the roads and on the roads of Skopelos and the Alonissos was more than one and a half metres away. With regard to coordination - for which you said here in your reply, but also in the statements you made from the islands that you have achieved - you did a coordination and, indeed, there was a mobility. We're not disinfecting everything and we're not negative. But this coordination, Mr Minister, let me say that it was after a celebration, that is to say, in the islands it was a real chaos. So you do not have so much joy in having achieved a project - which is there - because you also have serious responsibilities for what exists today. You said, Minister, on the tour you made on the islands, that 'all the necessary procedures will be initiated' - that is in introductory terms, that is from the statements you made either in Skopelos or in Alonissos -'so that compensation can be paid to the affected'. All necessary procedures will be initiated so that compensation can be paid to the affected." Allow me, Minister, to convey to you, I will not say the irony, but the doubt, if you want the inhabitants, especially Skopelos, when in September 2015, about a year and a half ago, the island, if you remember, was affected by high-voltage floods, because it was not exactly the same adequacy to prevent. And similar statements from the island were made not by the then Minister of Interior but by Mr Tsipras himself, the Prime Minister of the country. But until today, Minister, although the reported damages to the affected population amount to more than 1 million, according to the Mayor's statements, they have not been taken, Minister, nor 1 euro compensation and vice versa, there is no measure to relieve affected residents of taxation, etc. But, Minister, let me say that your government continues to give money and privileges to big capital. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Finally, Mr President, I would like to say something that is not the suffering of our people. The natural phenomena, Mr Minister, will come and return every ten years every five years. But that's nature, that's how it works and there'll always be. The question is, Minister, whether or not they are effectively dealt with or whether you want to minimize the consequences of these phenomena is in the first priorities of local and central government. And this reality, Minister, - which you have seen with your eyes and there is today in Greece - shows that there is a huge lack of preventive planning in such cases, a lack of infrastructure - is important, Minister, as prevention is the most important factor in dealing with a phenomenon - poor maintenance of the water, energy and road networks. Let me say here, the current was cut off in Skopelos and Alonissos because the trees fell. Be careful, Minister. The trees have been wept for over ten years, according to the mayors’ statements. These are design and prevention. And that's all because very simply, Minister, they're costing and they don't make a profit. The result is to "pay the bride" our people, the people's households, who, apart from suffering, are also required to bear the costs of damage. We call on you, Minister, to bend up with great interest, with great zeal - and to hear it, and Mrs Papanatsiou, who is here and who is our co-pilot - for the restoration of damage and the total compensation for the affected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr. Steerios. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u37	Mr Steeriou, first of all in relation to what you mentioned about the damages from the previous bad weather on the island of Skopelos, as far as I know, the households have already been compensated. Enterprises have not been compensated.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u38	Right, you're right.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u39	I don't just talk about intentions. So I say to you that last Tuesday - today is Thursday - the commitment of the specific sums I mentioned to you, of 90,000 and 60,000 respectively, was signed from the Ministry of the Interior Fund for the treatment of the natural disasters. What remains at the moment is to start projects and thus start disbursing these amounts. That's not the intention. This is a decision that has been taken and initiated.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u40	That's not enough.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u41	Wait a minute. We're talking about a first dose. Isn't that right? So you know that. He's following the way he has to. You know very well that 85% of the Alonissos is a pedestrian. So when such amounts of snow fall and trees fall and disasters are done, they cannot be dealt with in advance. With regard to the question of prevention you have said, there really must be the burden of planning as a state, so that we can also save a large part of the cost of the effects of such natural disasters. The commitment of the DEDDIE to electricity networks is to mow away from the network about one and a half metres to two metres. But when we talk about trees that are three or four metres tall, 20 years old, you've gone to the island and you know what pine trees we're talking about, and they're loaded with snow, then it doesn't save anything. I would like to say, therefore, that sometimes the intensity of weather events goes beyond us. I agree, however, that the state should move in that direction. I met there on the spot in the DEDN and asked them. Unfortunately, they were contractors. Because the Memorandum of Understanding does not allow us to have permanent staff many times. And that may be what we may have - if you do not mind what I say - a common language, a common view of how the state, public services should arm themselves with permanent officials and not be extradited or handed over some basic functions of the state to contractors. That is where we have to go. These features must have our design. And I repeat, for the second time, that the region and the municipality are already setting up the damage recorders. As far as ELGA is concerned, it should be in a second year, so that we can see herbal capital now. The damage can't be estimated now. It may take one or two months. You know that - those of us who have been in contact with the agricultural land understand - these kinds of Ice damages do not immediately appear. And - as far as I know from the ELGA - they are therefore prepared to receive exceptional staff support so that this registration can be done as soon as possible. And - as you said - I repeat my phrases, my statements from the island, 'as soon as possible on the basis of the possibilities we have, to compensate people'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The topical and urgent debate is closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u43	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only a discussion and a vote on the principle, articles and all the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Obligation to check the annual and consolidated financial statements, public supervision over the audit work and other provisions’. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 16 January 2017 that the draft law should be discussed at a single meeting on the principle and on the articles and amendments. We start and invite the SYRIZA rapporteur, Mr Giannakides, to Stepma. Mr. Giannakides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Mr President. Today's debate in the House concerns the draft law of the Ministry of Finance entitled “Obligation to review the annual and consolidated financial statements, public supervision over the audit work and other provisions”, a bill that was given for public consultation on 9 September 2016 and remained until 17 September 2016, a bill that we had the opportunity to discuss within the Standing Committee on Economic Affairs and to listen to the bodies that submitted their views to the Committee. I think it is worth mentioning that, despite the different views that may exist on this issue, the achievement of the greatest possible transparency in the statutory controls on consolidated financial statements, the strengthening of public supervision of audit institutions, the protection of investors and respect for the rights of employees in the sector are issues which, as has been seen by the committee procedure, all the parliamentary forces consider important and recognise their importance for the public interest. We therefore have in front of us a draft law which repeals Law No.3693/2008 and which moves fully on the basis of Directive 56/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 and aims to retain common audit standards at European Union level, on the basis of which the mandatory controls are carried out, as well as to achieve even greater convergence of the financial statements issued by European companies. At the same time, the role of the Committee on Accounting for Standardisation and Control is considerably strengthened, which the bodies recognised at the hearing by the committee and thus entrusted exclusively with the general supervision of the system of public supervision of the audit profession. This aid shall be granted to ELTE by conferring powers to carry out investigations and sanctions in order to identify, prevent and prevent any infringements of applicable rules in the context of the provision of services by auditors and audit firms. The draft law ensures the greatest possible transparency, strengthening the public oversight of auditors and audit firms. Continuing training is provided for persons carrying out mandatory checks, while the independence of ELTE is established as a public supervision authority. In that context, the conditions for granting the authorization to carry out a profession by the auditor and the audit firm and the procedures for the professional examinations necessary for their certification shall be laid down. The rules for the maintenance of the Public Registry by the ELTE are laid down, and the conditions for the registration of natural persons and entities carrying out checks are laid down and specific rules on independence, objectivity and professional ethics are laid down within the audit body. In parallel to the harmonisation of the provisions of Directive 56/2014, the options for Member States in the Regulation of the European Union 537/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council are integrated. The system of compulsory checks shall be defined in the financial statements of the entities of public interest and shall be laid down in the operating framework of the Audit Committee which are required to have them. Further harmonisation of Community rules is absolutely essential as it ensures a high level of quality of the mandatory controls carried out in the European Union. Instead of a fragmentary amendment of Law 3693/2008 for the sake of unity of the institutional framework, the drafting of a single law was chosen. So we have a bill consisting of fifty two articles. In the first chapter of the draft law, the purpose and the necessary definitions are summarised. The aim, as we have said, is to harmonise Greek legislation with the Community Directive 2006/43/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 May 2006, as amended by Directive 2014/56/EU of the European Parliament of 16 April on the rules on compulsory control of annual individual or consolidated financial statements, and Regulation 537/2014 on the necessary supplementation and alteration of the legislative framework governing the auditing institution. The second chapter refers to the process of granting continuing education and mutual recognition licences with other Member States of the European Union. The conditions are laid down for the granting by ELTE of the professional licence of auditors and audit firms. More specifically, the right to carry out compulsory audits is limited to the vowed auditors or audit firms licensed by ELTE and members of the House of Occupied Accountants, which is the only professional union on substance with twenty-five years of presence and work. The Board of Directors of ELTE shall have all the right to grant the professional licence or to reject the application of the person concerned. The procedures, supporting documents and other details for the authorisation and registration of chartered accountants and companies in the Public Registry shall be laid down by a decision of the Board of Directors of ELTE. At the same time, the conditions are defined and specified, according to which it is possible to recognise audit companies authorised by another Member State of the European Union. On the basis of Article 5, a professional licence shall be issued only to natural persons or companies having the necessary guarantees of honesty and not convicted of the offences referred to in the second paragraph of Article 6 of the draft law. In Article 6, the conditions shall be set out in detail for the withdrawal of the authorisation of the auditor or the audit firm and the obligation to notify it to the competent authorities of the Member States which have granted it. Subsequently, the framework of the qualifications required for the performance of the auditor's profession, the professional examination procedure and the cognitive objects shall be described in detail and the conditions under which exemption from them is provided for in one or more cognitive objects. Professional examinations and special professional examinations are under the supervision and control of ELTE. As part of the supervision of this audit, ELTE may, by decision of the Board, assign the organisation or the performance or both of these works to the CNEL or to individuals or to bodies of the internal or external with proven knowledge and experience in these matters and in which a decision will specify the tasks assigned and the conditions under which they are to be performed. In Article 11, the importance of the practical application of the theoretical knowledge is stressed and the obligation is laid down to carry out a practical exercise under the supervision of an auditor for at least five years, the two of which at the end of the professional examinations, which will cover, in particular, the control of individual or consolidated financial statements or similar financial statements. In order to maintain his licence, the auditor shall be required to participate in continuing training programmes. The duration and adequacy of the content of the training programmes, as well as the adequacy of the bodies providing them, are regulated by a decision of the Board of Directors of ELTE. Continuing training programmes include programmes provided by audit firms. It is also laid down that auditors who have obtained a professional licence in any Member State have the right to obtain a professional licence in Greece, provided that they have obtained specific professional examinations, while in case the total period of practice and pre-service in another Member State is less than that provided for in this law, the auditors are required to carry out a practical exercise. Finally, there is provision for cooperation between the Commission and the competent authorities of the Member States through the Committee of European Supervisory and Auditors. In Chapter 3, the procedures for registering and keeping the information of auditors and audit firms in the Public Registry are set out. Occupied auditors and audit firms are registered in order to pursue their profession in the Public Registry held by ELTE. By decision of the Administrative Board, ELTE may entrust the procedural matters relating to the keeping of the Public Registry to the competent professional body, which shall also specify the tasks and conditions under which they are to be performed. The Public Register is kept in electronic form and access to it is made by electronic means and is accessible to the public. It contains the name and address of ELTE as a competent authority with the ultimate responsibility for granting professional permission, ensuring the quality of work, carrying out investigations and sanctions, exercising public supervision. The minimum of the registration details in the Treasury shall be established for the audited auditors and the companies and shall be granted the right to request any additional information if necessary. The submission of any change in the information is planned to take place under the responsibility of the auditors and audit firms, while giving ELTE the right to check the completeness and correctness of the data by every appropriate means. The delay in the provision or refusal of submission or inaccurate submission or misleading submission by the auditors, audit firms, auditors of a third country and audit entities of a third country of the information provided for in Articles 15 and 16 of this Law shall constitute a disciplinary misconduct and shall entail penalties under Article 35 of this Law. As provided for in Article 18, the signature of the persons provided by the data validates their accuracy and adequacy and substantiates their responsibility towards the ELTE. In Chapter 4, the articles of the Directive relating to the principles of professional ethics, the status of independence and objectivity of controls are incorporated. The basic principles of professional ethics are laid down, taking into account the Code of Conduct of the International Accountancy Federation and the principles of professional scepticism for the auditors and audit firms are laid down. Ensuring independence and objectivity in carrying out the mandatory checks and avoiding any conflict of interest is extremely important. It is for this reason that auditors or companies from carrying out audits of an entity should have economic or business interests arising therefrom, while those directly involved in a mandatory audit are prevented from taking responsibility for the audited entity until the appropriate period has elapsed since the completion of the audit work. The employment status of audited entities by former audited auditors and audit firms shall be regulated by the provisions of Article 12, and the procedures for assessing threats to the independence of auditors and companies shall be put in place immediately after they have accepted or continued audit work. It is clearly stated that auditors and companies must respect the right to privacy and the protection of personal data, while being bound by strict rules of confidentiality and professional secrecy. At the same time, when auditors carry out statutory audits on behalf of an audit firm, the owners and managers of the company shall be prohibited from interfering in such a way as not to jeopardise the independence and objectivity of the auditor. With regard to the internal organisation of audit firms, specific policies and accounting and administrative procedures and internal audit mechanisms are provided for to prevent any threats to the independence of companies and ensure the independence of those carrying out audits. In accordance with Article 28, the subject-matter of the statutory audit does not include a safeguard regarding the future viability of the audited entity, whereas Article 29 refers to the remuneration of statutory audits. In the fifth chapter, it is laid down that compulsory checks must be carried out in accordance with international auditing standards in order to ensure the high quality of controls in the Union, but also the precise framework of the obligations of the auditor or audit firm carrying out audits on consolidated financial statements. In the case of groups, there is a clear separation of responsibilities between auditors having different entities in the group. Finally, it is described in the context of a control report which must comply with the requirements of international standards. Under the sixth chapter, more general supervision for quality control is entrusted to ELTE, while administrative care for the implementation of the audit is entrusted to the Quality Control Board. The effective functioning of quality control systems is particularly important and is achieved by appropriate professional training and experience of persons carrying out quality assurance checks. In the seventh chapter, the Board of Directors of ELTE is solely responsible for imposing administrative sanctions, for any infringement of the legislation and regulatory framework governing the work of auditors and audit firms. When the seven-member board of directors meets as a disciplinary body, two members of the Legal Board of the State participate in it. In addition, Article 35 stipulates the procedure for referral of supervised persons to the institution, the investigation procedure, the procedure for drawing up the indictment and the decision imposing sanctions, and for reasons of public interest the decisions are to be made public. Finally, national legislation includes the issues of civil liability and the insurance coverage of auditors and companies. The eighth chapter refers to the public oversight of auditors and audit firms and to cooperation between Member States. Public oversight of auditors and audit firms is exercised by ELTE, which has overall responsibility for supervising the approval and registration of public registers, the adoption of standards with regard to professional ethics, the internal quality control of audit companies and audits, unless these standards have been adopted or approved by authorities of another Member State, of continuing education, of quality assurance systems of investigations and of administrative systems, and the definition of its independence by the audit industry as a basic condition for the integrity, efficiency and proper functioning of public supervision. The ninth chapter regulates the procedural framework for the appointment and termination of a auditor, and in particular provides that appointments may not exceed five consecutive years and that they may take place after two consecutive years. The 10th chapter refers to the institutional framework of the Audit Committee, which each entity must have in place in order to monitor the financial reporting process, the effective functioning of the internal audit system, the independence of the auditors and the appointment procedure. At the same time, there is provision for keeping records from the auditors and companies for ten years, unless there is a judicial investigation, which is extended until the end of the investigation. The procedure for registering public registers and the supervision of chartered auditors or audit firms from third countries is described in the 11th chapter and the last sentence, as well as the procedure for granting professional authorisations to a third country auditor, while in the latter chapter, transitional issues are regulated and repealed provisions of Law 3693/2008 and Law 3148/2003. With this draft law, we are taking important steps towards modernising the institutional framework for the provision of control services, harmonising national legislation with Community directives, and we are achieving the greatest possible transparency, objectivity and efficiency of mandatory controls. This is a draft law which is useful and necessary and we invite you to vote in favour of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Mr. Giannakides. Before giving the floor to the rapporteur of the New Democracy, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House, fifty two students and students and three educational sessions from the 4th General School of Nice. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Besiropoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the bill is taking place in a very gruesome atmosphere in which there is insecurity and instability about the course of the Greek economy, since the assessment has become part of the government's political and party tactics. Some still do not realize that time is at the expense of the country, which is in danger of being found on the wall. The Government of Mr Tsipras is sure to be recorded in black in the modern political history of the country. It may even be recorded as the government which led the country to two memos. The bill that we are debating today - in theory, always - constitutes incorporation and adaptation into Greek legislation of Directive 2014/56/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014. In essence, it provides for the implementation of a new regulatory framework for entities, the procedure and the conditions for carrying out compulsory audits of requests for financial statements or consolidated financial statements to natural or legal persons or other entities which are obliged to respect such statements. I must point out that our country had to have incorporated this directive into its national law since June 2016. If we want to be precise, the end date was June 17, 2016. By letter dated 17 November, the Commission asked our country to apply the Community rules relating to audits, giving two months, after which there was a risk of referral to the Court of Justice and the imposition of a fine. The government has, however, been and is still in the constellation of macarity and immobility. The Minister spoke to the Committee on Economic Affairs, told us that the government was wrongly indicted for delay after having submitted the draft law for consultation in September. Madam Minister, this position is at least unfortunate. You haven't been ruling since September, you've been ruling for two years. That is the first point. Also the final date for incorporating the directive into Greek law was 17 June 2016, which proves that the bill was put into consultation after the expiry of that date. That is the second point. The delay, however, means nothing in the face of a bill that moves beyond the limits and provisions of European Directive 2014/56 and Regulation 537/2014. The Government submits that everything contained in the bill corresponds to the provisions of the European directive. No falseer. In my speech to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy I mentioned specific provisions, which go beyond and outside the limits of the European directive and the regulation. I requested explanations and answers from the government, but neither explained nor convincing answers were given. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy has made it clear that the provisions based on the European directive and the regulation will vote in favour of them. However, those who move beyond the limits and outside the spirit of the European directive and the regulation will not have our own consent. What is it trying or actually what is the government doing with certain provisions of this bill? The first is the proclamation of the College of Occupiers of Accountants in the role of the supreme body in the regulatory framework of controls, even in cases where there is a clear conflict of interest. The second is the deterioration of the independent audit body of ELTE, which is disguised by responsibilities and acquired decorative character. Let me remind you that ELTE was set up under European legislation as an independent supervisory body. It is well known that the government's discontent with the independent authorities when it cannot control them. There is no doubt that by the provisions that deviate from the correct printing and incorporation of European Directive 2014/56 into national law, the Government creates the conditions for appeals to Greek and European courts by auditors and audit firms that do not belong to the Body of Occupied Accountants, because it substantially converts the Body of Occupied Accountants to audited and audited at the same time and enables it to control its competitors, that is, the other audit firms. There are also provisions that turn the profession into a closed profession, with whatever consequences it has. In both the Committee on Economic Affairs and here in plenary, I, ladies and gentlemen, shall speak in particular, even if there are no government responses. In support of what I said before, there are the provisions of Article 3, namely paragraph 1, according to which only auditors or audit firms authorised to carry out a profession - that is to say, a professional licence - and are members of the Board of auditors. I asked you to tell me to the committee - and I did not - where exactly the European directive provides that auditors should be members of the Board of Auditors. Why should sworn accountants be mandatory members of the Board of Occupants of Accountants? Why does it exclude auditors who may be members of an appropriate body in another Member State? Why do you put in this way banning provisions to create a second equivalent of the body CNEL in Greece? There are answers to all these questions, which will surely be raised in the form of problems in the immediate future by audit firms that are not members of the Board of Auditors and which will invoke the impediment to the free exercise of professional activity. I also think that there will also be a question as to the right to pursue a free profession and the provision for controls on behalf of a single audit firm. The truth and the reality, ladies and gentlemen, are that none of this is provided for in the European directive. On the contrary, there is also an amendment to that effect in relation to the old directive, in particular Article 3 of the directive, which stipulates that the licence is granted by only one competent authority which is the ELTE. That is the right thing to do in accordance with international standards. What should the government do? It would have to adopt a provision whereby the auditors or audit firms authorised to pursue a profession and who are members of the House of Occupied Auditors of Greece, or are members of a College of Occupied Auditors of a respective professional association of a Member State of the European Union, will have the right to carry out audits. However, for its own reasons, the Government wants to create a monopolistic situation that is completely controlled. At the same time, this provision effectively closes the profession of auditor, restricts the exercise of individual activity by chartered auditors and strengthens the Body of auditors and financially, due to compulsory insurance in its fund. This is another provision that moves beyond and outside the limits of European Directive 2014/56 is Article 8(4) which stipulates that a five-member committee of inquiry is recommended for the organisation and conduct of professional examinations, which three members of which are proposed by the Body of Occupational Accountants. Quite simply, that is to say, the professional examinations are being carried out in the College of auditors, rather than the committee of inquiry being set up by ELTE, which is an independent supervisory body. To date, at the theoretical level, the College of Occupied Accountants is under the supervision of the ELTE, which is being reversed by these provisions, which, of course, have nothing to do with or link with the European directive. What will happen if another relevant professional body is set up in our country at some point? Will the Board of auditors continue to have responsibility for the professional examinations? We have also tabled another alternative, so that there are no distortions in this provision. To be made up of the Committee of Professional Examinations from members independent of the Occupational Accountants Corps or any other professional body with international certification and long-term audit experience, qualifications designated by ELTE, which will have full competence. The selection of members will be by draw, among those who meet the conditions. The question is also raised by increasing the exercise time from three to five years, which may become a restriction on access to the auditor's profession. The European directive sets a minimum limit of three years and does not set the order between practice and examinations, but by the provision you bring, every new entrant in the profession should have to spend five years in an audit firm and make contributions to the College of auditors in order to be able to obtain the permission. The Public Registry for auditors and its compliance is also a major issue. The provisions of the draft law referred to in Article 14(1) state that ELTE may assign the procedural matters to the competent professional body of the State’s Registry and specific reference is made to the Body of Lawyers of Accountants. The logic and moral order require that the Public Registry is exclusively the responsibility and responsibility of the ELTE and not of a supervised professional body. I honestly wonder how you will explain the assignment of such an important activity from ELTE to SELL. Because the Minister raised the question of Article 33 in her speech in committee, claiming that I am wrong about what I have said, I expect to see how it will explain the fact that, with the provisions of this article, the College of Auditors of Accountants is transformed into an absolute sovereign, even in clear cases of conflict of interest. I am referring to paragraph 12 which provides for a five-member committee, which will be appointed by the College of auditors and which will have the right to exercise quality control over the auditors and audit firms. In other words, the College of auditors will do some sort of self-control for its members, but at the same time it will control auditors and companies that do not participate in it and operate competitively. A similar issue arises with paragraph 13, which provides for the award of quality control by the EPTE to the Body of Occupational Accountants and all that at a time when the Legal Board of State has declared this provision illegal by means of its opinion No 273/2015, which came from a question of the Committee on Accounting and Audit. The responsibility for quality controls should be held by an independent authority, an independent body and not by the Board of Auditors. There is also a given point about our objection to other provisions of the draft law, which I analysed in the debate in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. I am limited because of the time to refer to two cases. One relates to the provision that the records of businesses for the auditors must be kept for 10 years, a period that we believe is excessive, considering that the records of companies that are kept for tax purposes have an end to five years. The second is the provision that companies and undertakings for which the annual tax certificate is issued are obliged to assign them to a different legal auditor or to a different audit firm every five years. This provision shall apply to tax certificates issued for tax years starting from 1 January 2016. As I pointed out to the committee, however, this provision is in conflict with Article 17 of Regulation No 537/2014, which provides for a rotation of the audit company every 10 years. So what is the exact limit, five or ten years? Ladies and gentlemen, the government, even in cases where it must incorporate European directives into national law, focuses on methods and purposes. We saw them captured in this bill. There is also a steadfast courage and even more incredible cynicity than some who are trying to make black white, to convince us that all the provisions of the bill are consistent with the European directive, when we have given rise to specific provisions and articles that move beyond and beyond it. The aim should be to match Greek legislation with regard to the auditing standards, on the basis of which the mandatory checks are carried out. This objective is erroneous and distorted by the government itself by circumventing and degrading ELTE, making the Body of Occupants of Accountants completely dominating and introducing provisions that close, rather than open up, the profession of the Occupant Accountant. These practices confirm the strong sense and conviction of the vast majority of Greek citizens that the country needs political change. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy will vote for those provisions that are consistent with the European directive. It will, however, vote against those provisions, moving beyond and above the limits of European Directive 2014/56 and Regulation 537/2014. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Mr. Vésiropoulos. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after taking part in the Educational Programme of the "Workery of Democracy" organized by the Foundation of Parliament, thirteen students and students and two teachers from the 9th Municipal School of Byron. Also, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, forty-four students and students and three teachers from the 3rd Elementary School of Gerakas. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The reason is the special speaker of the Golden Dawn, Mr. Carachostas.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u48	The proposed draft law attempts to integrate into the domestic legislation of Directive 2014/56 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 amending Directive 2016/43 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 May 2016 on compulsory audits of annual and consolidated accounts. Both the Government and the Civic Anti-Policy and other parties of the anti-constitutional arch claim that the complexity and huge volume of tax laws, as well as their demonic implementation, are intensified by independent companies of vowed auditors, which are supposed to ensure their faithful implementation. In committee we have asked two main questions, which of course remain unanswered: firstly, who is the one who prevents the Greek Government from simplifying the complexity and the huge volume of tax laws and facilitating their present demonic application? Secondly, who is that national body, which guarantees that controls are properly applied by independent accountant companies, namely who controls auditors? The deafening silence of domestic submissives in international speculative capital shows that the purpose of harmonisation control is certainly not to create a more stringent framework for tax controls on compliance with tax laws, but rather to legalise the immunity of those who have enriched and continue to be rich at the expense of the Greek people. What is the substance of the draft law under discussion? It provides for the transfer of powers to control the financial statements of companies with a turnover of EUR million exclusively to large audit firms, which the government considers to be the guarantor of ensuring that controls are properly implemented. It is enough to read the list of persons made up of the Board of Directors of the Board of Auditors, to understand that it is the representatives of the largest tax control companies who are active on the Greek territory. In particular, we are talking about companies such as KPMG, GRAND THORNTON, ERNST AND YOUNG, PwC and Deloitte. We have said to the committee and we repeat that these companies may not be designated, but everyone understands that they are favoured. It is the companies which, in accordance with Article 2, are going to take over the financial statements of companies with high turnover and all of this in order to ensure that tax evasion, safe financial control and so on. The role of these famous, independent accountant companies, to which the government grants the right to tax controls, raised it in the committee responsible, together with the piles of scandals in which they are involved and for which their members have been convicted. These multinational companies were supposed to have been set up on the basis of the principles of honesty and integrity, in order to be the inadmissible and independent auditor of businesses and these dovetailed in the scandals of multinationals, government and Civic Opposition seek to appoint as spatial guardians of tax laws. Of course, it is noteworthy that, despite the constant involvement of these multinational colleges in economic scandals, they have managed to benefit from the favourable treatment of governments in almost the same way as those of the largest systemic banks, i.e. as fundamental economic factors, which must not be allowed to collapse. How did they do that? Things are simple: they have enormous strength in the economic and political system because they have set up a powerful lobby, exert pressure, control decisions of governments, decisions concerning them. They have an essential reason in the formulation of national laws and regulatory frameworks relating to taxation, but also in the regulations that the international community plans for the offshore financial system. Anyone who considers the above as conspiracy theories has only to observe the usual phenomenon of the transfer of members of these companies to government positions and vice versa. In our case, the hard-tested Greek people have experienced and continue to experience the way in which international speculative and tocopheric capital promotes its dirty jobs and covers its "black people". Now let's go see some of the articles of the draft law. In Article 5, you are talking about a guarantee of honesty, at the same time as you legalise the presence of the four largest audit firms, which are accused of breaches of the Code of Conduct and are also accountable for unfair actions. In Article 6, you define the cases in which the EPC is lawful to withdraw the authorisation of the auditor or the company. You have, however, already defined restrictive - and not indicatively - the cases of withdrawal, which means that it is clear which cases fall under the law. Therefore, simply inserting the term "efficiency" in Article 5 suggests that you only do so for impression purposes. It is assumed that anyone who acts in accordance with this and does not fall within the cases referred to in Article 6 shall be treated with professional honesty. Article 6(2)(c) refers to a conviction by final decision. The same provision, of course, is not proposed for audit firms if we read paragraph 3. You will claim that it is not predictable because it is not a natural person. And I answer: are there no cases of conviction of serious offences committed by the Board of Directors in the performance of its duties, and indeed, in a delusion, by harming the Greek State? In this case, won't the company be responsible? Is he a blameless person because he's a legal person? But that's exactly why they're run by natural persons. We oppose Article 8 because it provides for the possibility of carrying out professional examinations and specific professional examinations provided for in Article 13 in the Occupational Accountants' Body, the Board of Directors of which consists of representatives of the largest tax audit companies and individuals or internal bodies. It is clear to us that we need a re-establishment of the Occupational Accountants' Corps and its coercive effect on domestic and foreign economic interests. Articles 20-21 are the ultimate humiliation. Everyone in the market is aware of the way in which audit firms act, with the same choice of imposing small fines, as the benefits of their illegality are clearly multiples of the amount of fines. They know it all but the government, which tells us about independence and objectivity of control in Article 21. Article 34: How likely is the ELTE Council with this composition to impose sanctions on audit firms, i.e. impose fines on itself? No guarantees of impartiality are ensured, not even in advance. The impressive thing, however, is that there are no criminal sanctions provided for, no responsibility for any offences committed, unfair acts which harm the Greek public. If the ELTE Board of Directors is free of criminal responsibilities, i.e. if it does not bear any responsibility, and it is not accountable to anyone, it is obvious that only private interests will seek to satisfy through the persons made up of the Board. In Law 3148/03, the founder of ELTE, there is absolutely no mention. It makes it clear that the Golden Dawn is voting against this draft law, as this does not defend the interests of the Greek State, but rather forms an even safer framework for the immunity of the multinationals. The government and their Civic Antipolitics "switch the carpet", during their regular tactics, to leave the Greek economy and thus the Greek society a prey of speculators and loan sharks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u49	We continue with the special speaker of the Democratic Association, Mr Koutsouko. Here, Mr. Kutsuko, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Mr President. It has also been pointed out by previous speakers that this draft law is coming up late to incorporate this directive on compulsory audit of financial statements. Don't spit the ass tail, I'd say! It's all going slowly here. The rating he would close on December 5th is transferred from week to week, from month to month. The dual language of the government in relation to our partners and the International Monetary Fund makes conditions difficult every day, reduces alliances, increases creditors' requirements and increases commitments. These are the serious issues. In this environment, obviously, our country must be consistent in its international obligations, incorporating the directives that are required into national law. As we said, the government is doing this with a delay. Ladies and gentlemen, the issue of compulsory control of economic units, entities, according to the terminology of the European Union and the directives concerned, is not just a technical issue. It's a technical matter. It's a very serious matter. It is linked to the interests of shareholders on the one hand and to the public interest on the other. I have to point out, in an introduction, that internal control issues have arisen when the accumulation of capital has led to such sizes as the companies which were not managed by the main shareholders. In other words, the multi-participating composition of enterprises led to management schemes which were detached from the majority of the shareholders and had to be checked. In this way, the first internal audit procedures were initiated. These procedures were identified in the public interest as well. They were matched by those certificates which ensured that an undertaking operates under certain rules of healthy competition, that it has sound economic data, which is active, that it is consistent with its public service obligations and thus gave them a market certificate, a certificate which increased its position in competition. We have, of course, seen too many phenomena along the way, which show that the control procedures were not just credible, but led to great diversions. I said this to the committee and will repeat it here in plenary for the history of the 'ENRON CORPORTION' incident in 2001 in America with a large audit company, the 'ARTHR ANDERSEN'. This operation went bankrupt. He created huge problems for the shareholders, the insured and so on. The US supervisory authorities have strictly punished the ‘ARTHR ANDERSEN’. The Greeks will be much more aware of the case - due to the crisis that began in 2008 in the financial sector and extended to Europe and came to our country which found it unarmed in 2009 - the case of LEHMAN BROTHERS, which had also been checked and certified. So the case is not innocent at all. That is why I think it is worth discussing in the draft law what the guarantee procedures are to ensure that this control is technically adequate, is non-discriminatory, is independent, with all the guarantees one can put in, making the footnote that there is always the customer's relationship, which is the one controlled, and the mandater. Ladies and gentlemen, in the Greek legal order with Law No 3963/2008 Directive 2006/43 of the European Communities on compulsory audits of annual and consolidated accounts was incorporated. On the way, and the European Union itself, on the basis of problems that have arisen, some of which I mentioned, has adapted through the lengthy and very bureaucratic processing procedures of the European institutions, this directive and has adopted Directive 2014/56, which is currently brought by the Government to incorporate into the Greek legal order. And because, obviously, a large number of changes in the old law, Law No 3963/2008, the Government chose to bring in such a piece of legislation, the articles of which correspond to the articles of the directive. This is what I think - it has been pointed out in the past - that this is good legislative practice. And the government takes into account, as the hurdle we have before us, and Regulation 537/2014 of the European Parliament, which contains specific provisions on the compulsory controls of entities in the public interest. Ladies and gentlemen, the legislation is structured in such a way that in its capital and its articles specific reference is made to the purposes and definitions, the manner of granting authorisation, the training of auditors, the process of registering, professional ethics, independence, objectivity, confidentiality, professional secrecy, auditing standards and audit reports - a matter of particular technical - disciplinary and civil liability of auditors, public supervision and cooperation between Member States. I would remind you that public supervision has been entrusted to the Committee on Accounting for Standardisation and Control, which has been established in our country since 2003 and is the most crucial tool in the exercise of public control over audit firms. The legislation also stipulates how the auditor is appointed and no longer appointed, determines the mandatory controls of the entities of public interest - i.e. large companies of the public and listed companies - and refers to the transitional provisions for the application of this legislation, as, in particular, with regard to the timing of the exercise of control by certain categories of undertakings, they change the limits. So, as far as the Democratic Integration is concerned, consistent with the policy that has been pursued over the years, it is certain - I said it to the committee and I repeat it - that we will vote on this bill. We will also vote on all those articles incorporating the respective articles of the directive. And since a criticism has been made of the government that it has abused, incorporating provisions which do not result from the directive, we are waiting for that particular reference to be made to us, as well as the government's obligations to incorporate the directive, it also has the possibility of a relative flexibility. Whether this derogation is at the expense of audit authorities, independence, transparency and the public interest is the crucial issue. It is not crucial to derogate from the directive and the regulation. It is important whether this derogation is at the expense of the entire procedure I have mentioned and of the public interest. But what is, I believe, more important in this regard is to see why the New Democracy - I have heard its rapporteur and the committee here today - has chosen a line of controversy with the College of auditors. I said to the committee and will I repeat it here to record: Mrs Mitsotakis vs. Konstantinos Mitsotakis? So, the reformer Kyriakos against his reformist father? I would like to remind everyone that, until 1992, control was carried out by SOL. It was conducted between 1953 and 1992, when Constantine Mitsotakis opened the profession, all the audit firms entered - both domestic and international auditors - and independent accountants - and established the professional body, the EES, with the exception of 226/1992. So JEL is a creation of Constantine Mitsotakis. It is the professional body and the responsibilities it exercises them legally, in accordance with the decisions of the supervisory authority, which is the Committee on Accounting and Audit. It has, in other words, given the opportunity to have the register. He has been given the opportunity, on the basis of the procedures envisaged, to do the examinations. He has educational work in collaboration with the Kapodistrian University. He's giving postgraduate degrees to the Controller. What's the JEL? Therefore, CNEL is a professional operator of the sworn accountants and companies in the industry. There is no one else in Greece and therefore the New Democracy's war against the CNEL, in my view, conceals something. Members may not have the courage to say it, but it hides something. Some people don't see this professional body in good eyes. The question is this: has this professional body promoted the audit work or has it undermined it? Does this professional body simply defend the interests of its members or, as we have seen in the committee, the issues relating to the responsibilities of the accountants who compile the financial statements and the auditors who control them, defending their independence? The New Democracy must be placed in this, and not be a diversion from the directive to the responsibilities of the CNEL. I also come to the government, but also to the New Democracy. I pointed out in the committee's debate the crucial issue of the limit of controls. I would remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that in our country with No.4336/2015 - it is the famous Memorandum, if you people of SYRIZA forget it - we have compulsory control only for medium-sized enterprises. This, ladies and gentlemen, is not compatible with the data of the Greek society, economic and social, because the definition of micro, small, medium-sized and large enterprises, according to Law No.4308/2014, which incorporated the respective directive, is that a small enterprise has a turnover of 8 million, fifty employees and active around 4 million. This is about Greece as a medium-sized enterprise. As both the representatives of the ETS and the Chamber of Economics and the Securities and Market Commission have told us in committee, there are countries of larger size than Greece, such as France, for example, which have another size class in its economy, but also countries of the same size as us, such as Portugal, which have far lower control limits. The government has made an effort in the preliminary draft under Article 42(5) to find a compromise between the threshold of 8 million small businesses and micro-enterprises, defining compulsory control at 3 million turnovers, 1.5 million active and fifty employees, and all three together. The evidence presented by the operators to the committee shows that about sixty thousand companies registered in the AU and EIA register are the ones that will be subject to compulsory supervision. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall end, Mr President, in a moment. This, ladies and gentlemen, has the following problems: firstly, it does not promote healthy competition and transparency, because only a very small part of the economic units in Greece will be the audit staff, and it will have the certificate of the audited auditor, the others will be in the opaque. It also has a very big problem - I pointed out it - in terms of facilitating the checks of the Ministry of Finance. I would remind you that in 2010, the PASOK government that made major reforms at the time, but which were downgraded against the other major problems in the country, had introduced the tax certificate. With the tax certificate, the companies were privileged to participate by a small percentage in the control sample, only by 8%. And the fiscal capacity and efficiency of companies had increased, as the tax certificate said it was all right in their obligations, in their retained taxes, in the taxes that they have to pay and so on. Does it have many problems, namely the fact that the government, under pressure - the pressure of whom? I suspect, but I want the government to say it - he removed the provision he had put in the consultation to be the control limit at a level that would not create difficulty in economic units. Because the cost, from what they have told us, is about EUR 7 000 to EUR 10,000. So a company of EUR 8 million will not make available EUR 10 000 to have a 'cleaner' on which its financial situation will be reflected, will it be facilitated taxly? I've caused the government! Mrs Papanatsiou said that Mr Chakalotos should come in and consult and solve it. In any case, in order to finish this, I said introductory terms what problems the process with which it has been involved in this country in connection with the closure of the evaluation. Parallel loss is the fact that Mr. Chakalotos is not available. But let them solve it in a way. Let's give an answer today in this House. There's no more time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u51	Before giving the floor to the next special speaker, I should like to make a statement to this House. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce that: The decision of the President of the Parliament of 18 January 2017 under Rule 43A of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament was established by the Special Standing Standing Committee for the Monitoring of the Judgments of the European Court of Human Rights for the IZ's Second Session of the Parliamentary Period. Under No. 737/530, from 18 January 2017, the decision of the President of the Parliament was made under Rule 43A of the Rules of Procedure, Special Permanent Committees of the Hellenic Diaspora, Protection of the Environment, Equality, Youth and Rights of Man, Regions, Road Safety and Penitentiary Systems and other Rules of Invitation of Privileges for the IZ' Session II of the Parliamentary Period. The relevant decisions have been posted to 'Parliamentary Transparency' and will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u52	The special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Athanasios Vardalis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, for years now the European Union has been liberalising the profession of a sworn accountant, taking important steps in the direction of facilitating the action and operation of big capital, serving the needs of multinational, business and monopolies. All this was done in the name of freedom of movement of capital. And the incorporation of Directive 56/2014 that we are discussing today in this logic is moving. Besides, the explanatory statement clearly states that it is a replacement for the previous directive 45/2006 - with which we, and then in total, disagreed, by voting against it - and it is done in order to improve the protection of investors by strengthening the supervision of chartered accountants and audit firms. And no matter whether there is a delay in incorporating this directive or not, all parties agree with its purpose. What does it mean, however, by taking into account the fundamental purpose of this directive? What does the protection of investors mean, which they seek? What is at stake and should investors be protected? The problem with investors is where to make use of their accumulated funds, where to invest them, so that they can get a good profit each time. This must be done, of course, without a great deal of risk, without having to face the risks, such as bankruptcy, 'rules', which lead to the depreciation of part of their capital. For this reason, they are useful in the correct information, reliable audits of business groups, the objectivity of the financial statements published by businesses. Through further improving the quality of compulsory controls carried out in the European Union and next, it is a great interest in supervising the audit firms. So we see that what is in the interest of monopolies, the European Union comes and legislates it. Votes corresponding instructions and you incorporate them into Greek law. That's exactly what you're doing today. Of course, business groups are taking action. They're trying to minimize the risks. They exploit international experience. They are adapted to developments. In any case, however, they cannot deal with the problem they have, of course, if we take into account examples which have been mentioned in this Chamber. Most of all, however, if we take into account the experience of the financial system, especially the United States and especially the banks, where they have not avoided bankruptcy, despite an alleged upgrade of the audit work. You all know that the attempt to supervise the audit is not today. It's been happening for years. A similar directive has previously been incorporated into Greek law. The explanatory statement itself tells us that harmonisation of legislation was necessary to ensure better conditions for 'health' competition. But what does 'healthy competition' mean, which you all support? Suddenly you discovered the market distortions and you run to set terms and rules so that you do not leave it uncontrollable, as you yourself support. You aim to acquit the policies that lead to the even greater growth of the major business groups. And in any case, what do you propose in this direction? You are proposing the greatest obsession with the European Union's plans, such as today's directive, greater liberalisation of markets and professions, greater competitiveness. Yes, sir. In other words, to strengthen a policy by which, through the development of competitiveness, we have led to the concentration and concentration of capital and the major business groups have been made stronger. And they are the ones who are struggling today in the market. All of you two - three decades ago, you have raised liberation and competition in a national case. And now you are calling the consequences of the anti-popular, reactionary policy that has been implemented over the years as a distortion. But to deal with it, bet on even greater monopolies, even greater concentration and concentration of capital. The reality has shown that capitalist, 'healthy' competition leads to monopolies and cartels operating at the expense of all the people. The monopolies, in order to be able to act in conditions of international competition, are constantly seeking to increase their capital, to increase their size. And, of course, with their strength, they share the market with each other. That's the truth. This truth you are trying to reverse, pretending you do not know that the development path of capitalism is a path of continuous growth of businesses. These very procedures are aimed at strengthening both this directive of the European Union and in the area of supervision of control work. Ladies and gentlemen, the previous governments dismantled the House of Accountants, which was a public service, carried out the audit work on businesses, public limited companies, private legal persons and in its place they created private audit firms, i.e. anonymous companies which are legal entities of private law. Now what do we have in practice? Control is essentially carried out by the persons controlled, that is to say, on both sides, the auditors and the audited, by public limited companies, i.e. private legal persons. In 2003, ELTE was created, an independent authority, where the control and supervision of the audit work is essentially in place, and hence, of course, because of the composition of this independent authority, in the multinational companies that are active in the audit area. Despite declarations to strengthen the independence, reliability of controls, to upgrade the role of the sworn accountant, we in fact have abolished the independence of the auditor and the audit work. Once the auditor or the audit firm is selected by the audit firm itself, it shall, in essence, define both the control conditions and the remuneration of that company for the audit work it will provide. It is a mockery, in our view, the provision in paragraph 6 of Article 21 that refers to the independence and objectivity of audit firms, which states that audit firms are 'independent', when they do not seek to receive or accept money, but also non-monetary gifts or facilities from the audited entity or any entity linked to the audited entity, unless their value would be considered small or insignificant by an objective, prudent and informed third party. Another point I would like to raise is that through the terms and conditions for the licensing and operation of audit firms, the activity of companies in our country authorised in another Member State of the European Union on the sole condition that they be registered in the public register and third-country companies not members of the European Union, essentially through this procedure, the major companies active in the industry are strengthened, thus contributing to the concentration and concentration. Today, for example, there are forty-six audit firms operating in Greece and only six of them are large, with over three thousand two hundred employees. The five of them are parts of multinational corporations. In these companies, flexible wage policy breaks bones. We have new entrants working for EUR 800, namely hunger wages and the profits of these companies to be huge. Intensification of work, the circumvention of working hours is a permanent phenomenon. Especially during the periods the balance sheets are published and in general the periods worked accumulates, workers leave after 12.00 hours and work at weekends as well. In fact, two companies announced an increase in the official working hours in nine hours. The Government on this issue is simply a spectator, as the Pan-Hellenic Accountants Federation has of course denounced during the debate in the committee. They use the evaluation, which in many cases is done twice a year as a tool for over-intensive work. In order to achieve a good assessment, workers are forced to work as hard and demandingly as they are being asked to do, to do overtime and what is necessary to get the benefit of their supervisors, that is, in fact, to have control companies that make huge profits and, on the other hand, to increase the exploitation of workers in them. This is certainly not an accident. The rise in labour force exploitation, the intensification of labour and the attempt to compress wages below the value of labour force are key causes which retain the tendency to fall in the average profit rate, which is the general law of the system, a general law of capitalism. They are therefore objective strategic objectives of capital policy towards labour forces. With this further concentration we will have fewer and larger audit firms that will control and direct investors in profitable paradises. They believe that the political representatives of the monopolies will avoid crises, such as the one that passes the system nowadays, since their investments will be in real economic terms. But there is talk here of contradictions that create the system itself, the same way of organising the economy. As long as the system creates over-accumulation of funds in a few hands, this is the precursor to destroy the productive forces. At some point, that is to say, that it is impossible for all the capitalists at the same time to be able to obtain the rate of profit sought, that is, the necessary return on their capital to levels that will enable them to continue their economic activity. The capitalist economic crisis, for which it is necessary to destroy part of the productive forces, factories, facilities, means of production, that is to say, part of the capital, which was, of course, collected during the development phase of capitalism. This is not going to be dealt with in general, no matter how much they do with this particular directive. Any upgrade of the audit work cannot deal with such critical phenomena, such as the ones that are now living in the rotting capitalist system. The third question is the disconnection of the diploma from the professional licence of the sworn accountant. Article 7 provides for the conditions necessary for the granting of a licence to a natural person of a sworn accountant. In conjunction with the conditions laid down in Article 9 for the control of theoretical knowledge and the cognitive objects of professional examinations, we in fact have the degradation of diplomas and their disconnection from professional rights, which is of course also provided for in the Bologna Treaty. Of course, not all of this is established through this directive for the first time in the European Union and in our country. This effort is time-consuming, evolving, takes into account the developments, the new data and the needs of business groups and is adapted accordingly. That is why we believe that this directive too is another station, another step in the direction of strengthening investor confidence, which is so necessary for you at this time. Like previous governments, you have also set your hopes for a recovery of the capitalist economy to attract investors. Only they're not going to come here for their mother's soul, because they're getting hurt for the economic crisis we're going through and the consequences she's having on the popular layers. Profits are also looking for this reason you are creating all those conditions to ensure their profitability. This directive also serves, in this direction. For all these reasons, we will vote against this bill. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Mr. Vardalis. Mr Georgiadis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u55	Mr President, could I take the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u56	Yeah, excuse me. Mr Georgiadis, if you may, had Mr Gavroglou spoken to support his amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u57	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u58	Come on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Georgiades, thank you too. It is an amendment on the possibility for students from the Higher Education Institutions to be examined in courses which are both six months old. This is a matter that has been chasing us for many years. This year's proposal is certainly to be done with the bill that we will be tabling in a few days' time, we have a provision that each institution must decide on its own, for its own students. It is not a matter of central regulation. For this year, then, we must also do so more permanently, taking account of the various problems, to be able to determine them. It is not a question of principle, that is to say neither do nor do it. Let each institution decide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u61	Mr. President!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u62	What do you want, Mr. Loverdo?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u63	A response to this and a question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u64	Wait a minute, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u65	Minister, I had told you days ago, here, in the halls of the House, that when the Minister of Education speaks, he has a concern, a concern, this is being resurrected by the press as a prepared, mature policy, which will be tabled in this House for vote. Publications are being created, agitation is being created, a discussion is being created, and the Ministers for Education understand this a few months later, after taking up their duties. Therefore, we have heard you say a lot. I imagine that of what you're saying, but you're saying it with alpha, but you're saying it in the beta way. Here you have an amendment of your own. You come with an amendment. You are inaugurating the relationship between the House and the Ministry of Education, on your own term of office with an amendment. Can you tell us, please, very much, what is the need to regulate this dual examination period? And secondly, a two-year question. This possibility for institutions to determine their own examinations, we had discussed it, had matured when I delivered the Ministry in February 2015 and gave it as a matter of immediate application. Now, you tell us as intent. Can you please tell us a lot, when do you plan to bring in this "very mature" arrangement?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u66	Minister, would you like to answer now? Do you want to give the floor to the Special Speaker of the Centro Association and talk later?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u67	Mr President, will you give me the opportunity now?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u68	Now, good.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u69	Thank you again, Mr Georgiadis. There's an extraordinary meeting of the presidents of the TEIs, at which I have to go. You referred to things that have been heard at this time. Obviously, what I say in interviews is my opinion, as a minister or a more personal opinion. The rest is the ones written down. I don't think there's anything worse or better in the public speech. Why is the amendment now? You have huge experience, Mr. Loverdos, to know that now the periods of examination are beginning and the periods have to be adjusted, when lessons, rooms, etc. are beginning. That's why we didn't put it in the law we're filing, I hope...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u70	And why hasn't Mr. Friend or Mrs. Anagnostopoulou brought it, and now you bring it?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u71	Now, you're asking me one thing I can't answer. I'm sorry to answer you like that. What would he say 'Why didn't he bring it?' We bring it and I think you can applaud the fact that we bring it. And the government itself will do so, and it will be very clear to regulate. It's in the law we'll testify in a few days. In fact, I also welcome the fact that on your Minister's behalf, he has grown up, as you say, a self-evident final provision. Furthermore, we are presenting this today in order to solve a technical problem for students, students and universities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, Minister. Mr Marios Georgiadis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u73	Mr. President, please. Can I have the floor to ask a question about the amendment?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u74	Please. Is it something that is not understandable as regards the amendment and you want to ask the Minister? Or is there going to be a general question now?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u75	There is a contradiction, which I would like to highlight.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u76	Contrast to what? The amendment itself?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u77	There's a contradiction about the self-interest in universities.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u78	All right, you have the floor for a minute, to clarify the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u79	Minister, in relation to the amendment, there is, firstly, no student limit. Secondly, the universities, having their own self-government, should have decided on such matters. It is with this amendment that they stand aside. Thirdly, why, through this amendment, the university is turning into a permanent examination centre? Mr President, this is what I wanted to convey as a reflection to the Minister. To have his answer, so that we too know how to place ourselves on the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u80	Minister, do you want to say something?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u81	Mr Amyras, these questions are not clear. These questions are to discuss for two 24 hours, if you want. We'll have a huge opportunity to talk about it. I therefore propose that this amendment should be put in place so that this problem can be solved immediately. For the matter of the self-employed, indeed to see what more universities can get to strengthen their self-reliance. That's why we're going to put it in a more permanent arrangement in the law. The rest of you have said is obviously a point of view, which we will have to discuss for a long time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u82	Mr. Amyras, I think it was understood. Now let's give Mr. Georgiadis the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u83	Mr President, could I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u84	Mrs Papanatsiou, I understand your desire to support the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u85	It's okay. It is better that the Minister should speak, to support the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u86	Mr. Georgiadis, will you give your place?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u87	Whatever you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u88	It's not what I want. I have to ask you. Good, because I see Mrs Fotou has come too, to give the floor to the ministers to support the amendments and then continue with the circle of special speakers. You have the floor, Mrs. Papanatsiou.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u89	In Amendment No 891, any person concerned asking for his entry in the register as an insurance or reinsurance intermediary in accordance with the provisions of Article 3 was obliged to have proof of tax information referred to in Article 12. With the proposed provision, we come to replace the words ‘proof of fiscal information referred to in Article 1’ with the words ‘the act of administrative determination of income tax, which...’. With regard to Amendment No 893, the provisions regulate matters arising from service contracts between concessionaires and contractors in the context of concessions in connection with the upgrading, maintenance, management and operation of Cretan, Continental Greece and Ionian Regional Airports. In this regard, the Commission considers that the measures in question constituted State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty. [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis, takes over the presidential office.]] In particular, the purpose of the uniform treatment of dispute resolution issues that arise between the State users and the concessionaires in the performance of the Service Contracts is to expressly provide that all disputes will be subject to arbitration, in accordance with the provisions of the respective concession agreement. Amendment 894 is granted for forty years retrospectively from 07-07-1998, the use of the public property ABK 976, in the Association of the Ministry of Finance - OSH -, in exchange for the amount already paid by the Federation in accordance with the joint decision of the Minister of Economic Affairs and Finance of 1070789/07-07-1998, in order to continue the operation of the already established child camp for the children of officials of the Ministry of Finance. The last Amendment 895 extends until 7-2-2017 the period laid down in paragraph 5 of Article 58 of Law 4446/2016 to subject the provisions of Articles 57-61 of the higher law to the provision of taxpayers with sufficient time to be subject to it. It's for voluntary revelation. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u90	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, twenty-five students and students and two educational attendants from the 10th Athens Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Now listen, ladies and gentlemen, to put a class in order. As Mrs Fotius is here and not to hold her for an hour, I will give her the floor for five minutes to talk about her amendment. With the interventions of the State Secretary, the amendments have already been completed, because Mr Gavroglou has also spoken. So we have a full picture. Now Mrs Fotou will speak, then we shall end with the three special speakers, Mr Georgiadis, Mr Dannelis, Mr Papachristopoulos, and we shall begin with the parliamentary representatives, if and whoever they want. I'll ask whoever wants to talk. Otherwise, I will ask the Minister if she wants to start her speech, after the special speakers, and then we will alternately, a parliamentary representative, a speaker. There are only six speakers, so we will go one - one and the sitting will be closed. Do we agree with this process?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u91	And my friend, Mr Balaura, has asked for the floor for an amendment. We wrote him on the extra list and we will give him the reason to defend her. You have the floor, Mrs. Fotio, either from Step or from your position, for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u92	You don't have to, Mr. President. Thank you very much. I won't need five minutes, obviously. I would like two minutes, because it's a very well known matter to all of you. You know very well that the Social Income of Solidarity, which we have voted on and was to start from 1-1-2017, did not start. But it will start in the last ten days, that is now. All procedures and techniques have been completed and we are now updating all citizens with all the material. So we've been late this month. Not to leave this month uncovered all these vulnerable groups, which will enter the CRL immediately afterwards, we extend the feeding card for a month for January. This is Article 1. Article 2 refers to the feeding card, where there were no CRL thirty pilot municipalities. Therefore, all thirty CRL municipalities will be extended for one month, a feeding card for the two hundred ninety-five, thirty municipalities for one month. And the third article is the much-discussed Poverty Structures for the six six municipalities of the three hundred and twenty-five throughout Greece. The Poverty Structures, you know, are the old ESDP programme, for which you have all voted here. Five times we have extended for the Poverty Structures since the end of the program. We've given 25 million for the Poverty Structures for all these months. As you know, we are also giving another two-month extension, with the wish, with the expectation - and with the follow-up from above to every municipality now, because the Community and the Poverty Structures have joined all over Greece in many municipalities, two hundred fifty now - that we will have completed by the end of February and the recruitments will begin. Of course, it is not the same day, Mr President, but with a heterogeneity between the municipalities. So we're covering for this time and the Poverty Structures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u93	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u94	Mr President, may I ask a question?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u95	It is clear, I assume, what Mrs Fotou said. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u96	That's just it. Mrs. Fotio, all right on the subject of guaranteed income. We agree. On the first issue, about the Poverty Structures, why do you say 'one month'?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u97	Two months. Until February 28th.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u98	It won't make it to you. And you will come back for an amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u99	It can't be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u100	Why don't you say six months? We'll agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u101	Can I answer that, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u102	Have a seat, Mr. Loverdo. Answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u103	Mr. Loverdo, as you know, that's state budget money we're putting into Poverty Structures now. Every time we fight to find them. My ministry doesn't have them. And every time, based on what we find, we expand. That's the one. Secondly, the activation of the Community's centres is our obligation, as you know, by the ERC's European implementation programmes. It is part of the national mechanism, which you have also voted on and your party has voted on. The national mechanism is also structured with the Community's centres. The Community Centres are absolutely essential to operate as quickly as possible. What's happened? All the programmes of the municipalities, which have so far been submitted, have been approved by the regions. They have been approved, and at the moment we are ready in all municipalities - with different degrees of readiness - to call the positions through ASP, as you know well. In two hundred and fifty-four community centres seven hundred positions through ASP. In the Poverty Structures, another seven hundred positions, with ASP procedures again. Everything's ready. We can't do this right now for six months. Six months will take us off the budget very much, and we will not reach six months.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u104	That's why we're telling you, you can't make it. We're not talking about it for us.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u105	I understand what you're saying, but we've seen the other one, that every time we give an extension, the municipalities get short of it. They are processes that, as you know, are difficult because there is the AAP procedure. We do not take people with NGOs, as happened from the previous NSRP - and you know it well - which is fast. We take them, unfortunately or fortunately,...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u106	Madam Minister, it's understandable. After all, Mr Loverdos does not disagree on the substance. He said so that it would make it easier for you not to make it easier for time and we need to vote again. You said a reasoning that, in part, it is right that the municipalities should not feel relaxed. Perhaps the 'until the end of March' would solve the problem. Look at that. Instead of 28 February, Mrs. Fotio, put 30 March, wishing you had finished in February.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u107	It's more reasonable what you're saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u108	The above is 'does not spoil the manstra'. The least is that it will need an amendment again. Look at it and tell us. So we're done with this. Mr Marios Georgiadis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u109	Thank you, Mr President. Good morning, all colleagues. Mr Loverdo, a lot has been said about the amendment. In one or two months, we may have elections and they want to have had time to give the money, so it's quite likely that's the answer, so we can do a little charming. Let me begin with the amendment, and I, in my turn, with a general number 894 and a special 129, on the infamous concession for forty years, retrospectively since 1998, of a public property in the Federation of Ministry of Finance for the creation of a child camp for the children of officials, which is already working. Of course, we are not opposed to this, to the concession itself, and a price has been paid in the past. However, what is causing every trustworthy is that, in paragraph 2, not only are the forest violations to date legalised, but also urges the managers of the installation to regain any forest violations they wish, and even instructs the forest authorities to legalise them. Admir now - for those who have not read the amendment - vague wording: 'Any additional construction or intervention in the woods, which serves the operation of these child camps, is now being carried out after the approval of the forestry authority'. What does it say "any additional construction"? How can an intervention be allowed in advance to any forest area? Who will really judge the service for this installation and why should this be mentioned in a law? So what does SYRIZA generally tell us about any future concern? You break as much as you can, and at the end something might be left to you. I don't think that's her 'first time on the left', unless that's how you want to go through it in the world. And don't stop here. In fact yesterday, the Prime Minister admitted that he would henceforth operate under the auspices and caress of SYRIZA. The good thing about this is that some jobs may be saved for this very difficult period, at least for the workers of the group. The very bad thing, however, is that tomorrow - a multi-member committee will be appointed by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, in which the appointments of a few dozen or hundreds of symposia will be decided, which will be baptized by journalists, editors, pension managers and say. This method broadens the horizons for the state-owned hay industry, i.e. the only primary production, which unites in that country. Because, in fact, yesterday, nothing was discussed about the agricultural sector. As you see, then, this production will now be offered in an improved and upgraded form, with the approval and seal of the DOL. In fact, we have also witnessed this phenomenon. The government that closed down the ERT - and I am referring to the New Democracy - which sent two thousand families to the street yesterday caught the pain for the Doll employees, saying that a few months ago the government was not interested in the channels that would close and the workers who would stay on the road. In other words, we are talking about such populism in Parliament during yesterday's day! I am addressing both of you, namely, to the two major parties: you have been ruling on us all these years and you have made our country a donation to lenders. But there's also a really good element from the whole case. The majority for months have been raising tons of real or allegedly terrible things and findings during the Committee of Inquiry into the lending of parties and SMEs. We're talking about borrowers, and so on, which is probably true. So, since the Prime Minister officially told us that SYRIZA adopts the DOL, to give a good example of the management, we wait until next week to announce to us a repayment plan for all the obligations of DOL and MEGA until the last euro. To finish, gentlemen, Mr. Mulopoulos is not an entrepreneur. There's no money. So, we need to clarify the role that he plays in the band and who's behind it. Otherwise, one can easily blame the government, which you see is already doing, and this is a very big problem for the functioning of democracy. Let's move on to this draft law. The control mechanisms and their smooth operation are self-evident in a Western parliamentary democracy. In fact, the current bill is a European cheque, to which we should have complied for a long time. I would remind you that since last November the Commission has demanded the implementation of the common rules of the European Union on auditing and, in fact, within two months. Otherwise, he would refer us to the European Court of Justice. And here we are here today to vote on it. This demonstrates that, once again, we have to be legal and have to follow the European Community's self-evident rules. The draft law generally requests that we harmonise the framework of the audit rules at European Union level. What are we going to do like this? More transparency and justice, both in the audit procedure and in the requirements we have from auditors. The issue is one: to strengthen their independence and objectivity in the performance of their duties. So the controlled person will feel honestly treated by the state and the state will be able to obtain more benefits from the market. In order to understand the people who are following us, the government is totally reluctant to follow European rules. Please take account of this: the countries member countries of the European Union should have put this legislation into force at national level by 17 June 2016. This initial deadline was ignored by the Government and the Committee sent us a letter of formal notice in July 2016. In November we received a request in the form of a reasoned opinion. If Greece did not take measures within two months, i.e. until now that we are here, the case would go to the courts of the European Union.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u110	Until 17 January. Today we have 19 January. And that deadline is over.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u111	That is right, Mr Besyropoulou, but we are within the deadline, even with two, three days' delay. We do not meet this, of course, for the first time, and I would like an honest answer. What is one of the two that characterizes the government? Incompetence or anti-Europeanism or both? Because you're accusing us of being with Shoeble, but you're finally bringing everything in and voting for it all. I am telling you this once again and it is clear: Greece's position is in Europe. We are neither the western province of Asia nor the northern province of Africa. You should all be proud of us in the European family. You should be proud that you are citizens of a country that has inspired European ideals of freedom, democracy and justice. But you look like you're ashamed of all this. You admire unreserved regimes, which you have never hidden from your public positions. You would prefer an isolated, a small Greece of popular democracy, a country of war, your hands and your partners, within and outside the borders, a small weak Greece, without individual freedoms and private initiatives. However, as a Union of Centres, we want a country of normal democracy, where citizens will live freely and responsibly, where citizens will have an ally of all democracies and will willingly cooperate at political level, not siren and threatened with courts and fines. And we shall now proceed to the articles in the bill, which we have seen in the committee, and which we have made a detailed report. We have seen that compulsory control is extended to smaller enterprises. We ideologically are not opposed to auditing by accountants even smaller companies than those provided for in the bill. Transparency and social accountability are in our top priorities, and that is why we are also positive about this bill. The most important question, however, is: When you increase taxation in particular in profitable companies, when you put a lot of taxes and contributions to the private sector, when even social security receives it as a tax, when as a whole over 60% of the income of a private person comes into the hands of the State every year, when this private person finds neither a health system nor an appropriate education system nor national security, given how do you expect him to meet his obligations and what control procedure? When you bring your obligations to the heights and at the same time impose strict controls, then one thing will happen: the closure of businesses, unemployment, and reduced tax revenues for the state. Strict control rules have a return when there is a fair tax system. They have never established strict rules in a society full of injustice and discrimination between the social classes. You have made a motto of the fact that the private businessman is an enemy and a folklore, and the public sector is the saint, who must worship and do all the favors to him. We do not belong to this religion, which you want to impose on us. We believe that citizens are equal to the state and all of them. We have said that we need to clean the public from the slow payroll and keep the producers and those who honor taxpayers' money. We can't have two-speed civil servants. It is not possible for the officials of this House to stay at night, with the urgent you are bringing us, on the other hand, your skilled party followers, to enjoy coffee at the café. Even if the state was responsible for our country's bankruptcy, the state itself could not meet its obligations. The state itself has created a huge deficit, with the arrogant benefits, the outrageous wages, the fat pensions of the last few decades. And instead of limiting the state, instead of destroying its pathogens, he looks to disappear all the rest. And you wait, in this war climate, for the private businessman and professional to be the eternal victim, the eternal source of income for an opaque and wasted state. If the individual does not want it, he will find thousands of ways to escape both his controls and his obligations. And you, instead of cultivating the citizens' will to pay, look at imposing more obligations and more controls on him. This is the same dead-end recipe, the same catastrophic policy over the last decades. We do not expect you to change anything, however much you have sold hope, nor do we expect the next one-party or semi-group government to change. There are a number of amendments that you have put forward in the same context. It is characteristic that an extension to the voluntary disclosure of incomes is made. Here you state indirectly that the only way to increase your tax revenue is the threats to taxpayers: "Tell us what black money you have, because if you don't tell us, we'll take it all away." Is that how you imagine the state? To support tax revenues by building a gangster state profile? These initiatives, to us personally, remind us of some American movies, where there is the good and the bad cop, "speak now, because then it will be too late". Is it possible for the state to have such a face? The State is supposed to ensure that its citizens' taxable assets are known within the Greek territory. So many tools you have from the European Union and the international institutions, why do you want them? You are also bringing to an amendment the extension for a month, as the Minister mentioned earlier, of the Social Solidarity Income, in thirty municipalities. These measures to combat the humanitarian crisis are a programme which, as has rightly been said, is subsidised by the ESDP. What exactly have you done at the state level to deal with the humanitarian crisis? The fact that you're attracting slow-wages to possible secretaries and public bodies is considered to be a project? The fact that you are even wasting European Union money on hot spots in two and a half thousand supposed workers, who have never taken up duties, do you also consider this work? For the forty thousand Greek homeless, who have left them in the snow and cold, what have you done, what do you expect to be done by whom? From the NGOs and municipalities? Do you expect them to spread blankets and food? We are constantly accuseing you of this issue publicly and all the questions we have asked have come to a drawer, at best, of a ministerial office. Is that left-wing welfare? Is that what you learned in the Marx and Engels manuals? Ignore those in need and subsidize with thousands of pensioners in the ECI? Good for you! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall end in a minute, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance. As you know, this is the first parliamentary term for the Central Association. We are disappointed by the reluctance of a Western state government to apply the international treaties, which it is obliged to implement. We are disappointed that, while we considered our European coexistence to be a smooth success, the Greek Government is reluctant to share these values. Your reluctance to reform and co-exist with European data in only one conclusion leads us to the fact that the exclusive solution is a government of technocrats of broad parliamentary acceptance. Saviors no longer exist, middlemen no longer exist, "trained them" along with the guys, who said the song. Stop dreaming you're one of them and grow up! Otherwise, we will find ourselves on the sidelines of history. As you know, we have also voted in favour of the relevant draft law in principle and will be placed in detail both our speaker, Mr Saridis, and our parliamentary representative, Mr Megalamustakas, during the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u112	The special speaker from the river Mr. Dannelis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u113	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are today discussing the European Directive 2014/56 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014, which in fact amends a previous directive of 17 May 2006, namely Directive 2006/43. That Directive should be clarified that it was incorporated into Greek legislation by Law No.3693/2008 on harmonisation between European States of the rules governing the control mechanisms of economic entities. This Directive therefore further seeks the prevalence of common control standards in all Union countries, on the basis of which the mandatory checks are carried out in the consolidated financial statements of undertakings, effectively repealing Law No.3693 of 2008. The obvious aim is to achieve even greater convergence of the financial statements issued by all European companies, so as to strengthen the confidence of potential investors and improve the quality of compulsory controls, allowing a proper display of an enterprise's financial situation. In this context, the draft law seeks to strengthen the public oversight of auditors, as well as audit firms, to control the auditors essentially and to consolidate the independence of the Committee on Accounting and Audit, the well-known ELTE, as the public oversight authority. It is for this reason that the directive under discussion brings new conditions and conditions concerning the granting of the authorization to engage in a profession by the auditor, as well as the way in which the audit firms operate. In order to be more understandable, companies that are controlled by sworn accountants or their respective companies are not only enough to look profitable and sound, but also to be, because we have often seen investors put their money into companies "guts, companies which, however, because of incomplete and unambiguous controls, showed elements of economic soundness, which were in no way equivalent to their real situation. We are therefore discussing a technical bill, which, however, is of great importance for the protection of the public interest, but also more specifically for those who want to invest money in our country. And even though the technique of nature is likely to be abducted in the first time, they should point out that we are talking about the real economy and that is all but indifferent to each other. But at another reading, the bill requires us to see, in their real dimension, the multinational audit companies, known prestige companies, who have so far remained unavoidable, because of their name alone, because we must not forget that the targeting of control of the audit companies is mainly about the so-called 'Big Four' companies - colossal companies, which the financial crisis has brought to the surface weaknesses in their operation, which have led to market distortions, which have paid dear citizens and investors. After all, it is well known that this market is a market for oligopolistics and therefore a strong conflict of interest. In addition, the draft law sets out the necessary qualifications of auditors. It sets out the framework for carrying out the relevant professional examinations and certifications and redefines new terms and conditions for their entry in the public register. The fifty-four articles, which are structured into twelve chapters, follow the original form of the directive and, therefore, we have no problem voting in favour of this directive, as incorporated into Greek legislation, of course, and consistently in the stance we take on European directives, which the Greek Parliament is called upon to ratify. Nevertheless, I would like to stand by, Minister, on an issue that I think needs to be reviewed, because it needs further clarification. It is not possible for an audit company, which has subsidiaries or indirectly connected companies, to check and, at the same time, to carry out auditing and auditing through its subsidiaries. There should be distinct roles in these functions in order to ensure the objectivity and transparency of the procedures. But also in Article 42, which appears altered in relation to the corresponding consultation, we have to look back at some points, because, in fact, the economic sizes of Greece are different from the average of the European Union and where we are talking about a small enterprise, in our own countries, it is considered to be a big business. So, for example, the figure of 4 million active and turnovers of 8 million with fifty people as workers who characterize the small enterprise in Europe is a big business for our country. Such an undertaking cannot be excluded from the controls because the number of undertakings under control is thus significantly limited. I think it is worth reconstructing the issue and adjusting the limits, according to the Greek data. It's in our discretion. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I cannot but refer to a regular practice. Once again we are witnessing the well-known pattern of legislation, where the adoption of a European directive becomes a Trojan Horse for a multitude of, mostly, unrelated amendments, which are increasing over time, as we have seen today. Trying to incorporate individual European directives into the Greek legal order, without following European good legal practice, is, if anything, contradictory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u114	And I thank you for saving time, Mr. Dannelly. The special speaker from the Independent Greeks Mr Papachristopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u115	Thank you, Mr President. I shall plead to a lot of things I have heard from the previous speaker, Mr. Danellis. Controlled and controlled are incompatible and the limits of a small or large enterprise are differentiated by nation. I think Mr Koutsoukos also made the point, and I think it is something that should be taken into account, at least as a special issue. I would like to say this: I remember the sworn accountants in a municipality some time ago - I do not want to say who - I asked a timely question here. Always on the presumption of innocence - the court will finally decide - the sworn accountants did not just a terrible job, but a great job and, literally, they were going out in the forefront of incredible things that happened in this town. Therefore, the work of the sworn accountants is something very serious and I think it ensures, not only the validity of their decisions, but mainly the willingness or otherwise of an investor to come to invest in a country. It is very important for him that the controls are correct. If he is indeed a serious investor, he must come out of his control. It is therefore a two-way relationship. It is not only that we check the vows, who may have in a way been affected, financially or otherwise, but also the credibility of their decision, their control over the investor. A major investor, you understand, if he finds that the checks are types, he doesn't come to invest. I therefore think that today's issue is very important, especially in a country like ours, which we know is actually burning for investment. I also want to point out this: some other sworn accountants - I don't know what they're called and who controls them - which are the famous rating companies, “MODY’S”, “FITCH” etc. - they can make a decision to shake and blow up a country's banking system in the air and move the country's economy together. I would like an answer to that. In other words, I believe that the European Union must go further. We agree on everything. Hard checks must be carried out on accountants and companies, too, which can be audited and controlled. Let us look at all this and go a little further, because our country has paid for some proper or otherwise of the programme, which we have already been spending for seven years and is not coming out of anything. Those who thought he'd come out are disloyal, day after day. It is clear that this programme they drafted for us - it has nothing to do with the sworn accountants, but we felt it on our side - did not come out and poorly populate whole societies, not to say whole countries, by these mistakes. So it's a nice first step. I will agree with the criticism of the speaker of the New Democracy. It's good. We're late, yeah. We could do this a little earlier, but you know that we operate under pressure conditions, partial economic suffocation and not all are easy. It is not something you say 'I am now starting it and finishing it'. I don't want to say any more. I want to talk about two amendments. I was even accepting the student's amendment, which is graduated and which were really burning and which had to be done. If it didn't happen before, it didn't happen. It could have been, but it was something that had to be done. At least we have supported it since the first time, because we have been in contact with these children, as well as Mrs Fotio's amendment. I think it's human. You always fall out in times. All right, it could take effect from 1 January, but I think it is also necessary, because this social solidarity allowance does not get it either ten or fifteen thousand people. They take it around the seven hundred thousand people who do not have a destiny in the sun, and until yesterday these people were either in the agglomerations of the church or in the agglomerations of the municipalities or in the trash cans. I'm sorry to say that. It's not much money. They are between 200 euros and 400 euros, depending on their family situation. It is not extraordinary, it is not single, it is monthly, and it has nothing to do with it, and I say it for those who are listening to me right now, and they will do well to go quickly to the social services of the municipalities, to the JEPs. Very soon, the two hundred and fifty-four communities, where they will be made in municipalities over ten thousand - most of them, I imagine - will be informed of this allowance. I would like to finish, because I have heard the dangers, disasters and designations again, to remind you: According to economists, who have nothing to do with Greece, the country is currently with a minimum rate, ending with growth in 2016 - a small, minimal one, but it is growth - and in 2017 almost all the economists on the planet predict growth in the country, another smaller, another larger one. Some may not predict 2.7% or 3%, but predict growth from at least 1.8% or more. I would also like to remind you that the Bank of Greece has recently received a corrective action from the European Central Bank, which shows that its liquidity is going well. We didn't say the bank issues were solved, but it's going well. It's 4.2 billion, for those who know numbers, for the liquidity of the Greek banks that they don't need. I would also like to remind you that the unknown origin 'MODY'S', which, however, solves and binds on the planet, on the global soil, while saying that the average development of all European Union countries will be around 1.3%, for our country, provides for much more growth, around 1.8%, of 1.9%. I also want to remind you - and it is an answer, because I listen from morning to night misery, dangers, catastrophe and, above all, distortion - that about 6 billion people have returned from chests to banks. I also want to remind you that ten-year bonds are stable and have a downward trend. We all know that if we cross the six-unit psychological limit, it means that. I would also like to remind you of the following: Mr Papadimitriou, the Minister for Economy, has given ten criteria, which show that the country is actually entering another phase. Mr. President, how much time do I have?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u116	You have a lot of time, Mr. Papachristopoulos. Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u117	I shall conclude, Mr President. I don't have any complaints. At this juncture it is a criminal move to do anything else and not to finish the second assessment. The feeling of those following events in close proximity is this: nobody overlooks the fact that the Soyble team is being imprisoned. However, I would like to remind you that the last 'coup d'état' he made with the short term surprised many of the nineteen friends in the Eurozone, with the exception of the Baltic countries, who have always been his allies and three, four others, which are not very strong entities, such as Finland, for example, which is against us, is 1/8 in an economy than France, which is second, and one in Italy, which is a third. What do I mean? Countries such as Ireland, Belgium, France, Italy, Cyprus, Portugal and even Spain have realised that a country cannot win -100 billion people entered Germany's economy in 2016 - and all others are poor. I think he's an ally on this thing. I also believe that the terrorist strikes throughout Europe, apart from Greece, a Erdogan unpredictable and desperate, in my opinion, in a country which is really an omnipotence of stability and security and democracy - I stress the 'democracy' - which has been loaded on its back and the terrible migratory problem of refugees and economic migrants and after the fact that Italy is being tested in a banking system, Brexit, Trump, all of these are new players and players in global balances. I want to believe that the Siomple team won't prevail, and there won't be any award-winning démarche. It's a 5-10% chance, but it's real. No one's denying her. Yes, the evaluation is delayed. It was delayed, because there was really a negotiation, because these 617 million euros had to be given to unpunished people. I say it's nothing. Mrs Fotio's 700m euros must be given to people who are below the poverty line. And one must inform these people who are working on various plans that half the Greeks may not be below the limits of poverty, but touch them. Therefore, the logic above all must prevail and prevail. I think the second assessment will end. I followed for seven hours yesterday the meeting we had here in which, unfortunately, little has been heard of the agricultural sector, where - let my friend Mr Apostle - the poor Apostle, after spending the 3 billion euros they owed, has not eaten any fines in these two years, since he has already given farmers 3.7 and much more - they have not heard that - the country is entering at a different rate. In conclusion, I will say that it is very important that we here in Parliament - and it is to their credit that the opposition parties have voted for it - voted for the electronic signature, voted for one stop - not two months and sixty signatures - voted for the plastic money and so forth, because I believe that the country must change and change. Some people - I'm sorry to say that - want to keep her in a hostage. It's a comedian and a funny fact because a retired journalist who worked in Step over 20 years is being indicted...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u118	Thirty.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u119	I don't know how much it is.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u120	That's what he says.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u121	I wish it was more than that. I say less.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u122	Let's get this over with, 'cause now we're talking about issues outside the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u123	I am done, Mr President, and I apologise.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u124	Mr. Koutsouko, do not interrupt Mr. Papachristopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u125	I've been too busy. What do I have to do with it? You're saying they're three hundred employees. Shouldn't something be done about them? It was, in fact, a disgraceful response from the Prime Minister yesterday: "Come along with transparency to regulate the issue of the media that was so warded." The'minist dictatorship', unfortunately, fought so much a law that did not come out unconstitutional. An article came out of him. That is why the Civic Opposition - not anyone else - has been blocking for five months. We knew, the ERR had to do it. We knew it first. I don't want to say any more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u126	We're done with the special speakers. Madam Minister wants to make legislative improvements. You don't need to read them, Minister. Just say two words and testify them to be copied and shared, and then we go on. The Minister doesn't want to take the floor now. He wants the six colleagues to talk, and then he wants to talk. This means that the parliamentary representatives have the right to take the floor whenever they want to. If they want to wait for the Minister to talk, all right. If they don't want to, okay again.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u127	Let the Minister speak, then.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u128	All right, all right. I'm already writing to you, Mr. Treasury. Mr. Loverdos will tell me what he wants if he wants to hear the Minister or not.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u129	Then, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u130	Okay, then, so I'm putting you in number two. Mr. Maddash has asked to speak last because something happened to him. Here you go, Madam Secretary, talk about the legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u131	Most legal improvements are corrections to the text. However, I shall refer to two - three things I have to say. At the end of Article 44, a paragraph is added as follows: ‘The decision of the Minister of Finance may be defined as entities of public interest within the meaning of this paragraph, in addition to those of paragraphs (a) to (c) of paragraph 12, in view of the nature of their activities, their size, the definition of the persons employed in them and other similar criteria’. A second important point, on the basis of what has been said by many colleagues, is that keeping the records provided for the auditors and audit firms carrying out audits on non-public-interest entities is valid for a period of five years from the production of such documents or information. A third I would like to mention is for Article 52. This concerns the perpetrators of sworn auditors. As regards the extension, ‘2016’ is replaced by ‘2018’.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u132	I would ask that they be photographed and distributed to the rapporteurs and to the parliamentary representatives and to any other colleague, of course, wants. Before entering the list of speakers, I will give the floor for two minutes to Mr Balaura, who has asked to speak on an amendment. Mr Balaura, you have the floor for two minutes. I took responsibility for giving you the floor. I didn't ask my colleagues. Please don't get over time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u133	Thank you, Mr President. This amendment has been tabled by sixty three Members. I shall briefly mention what its spirit includes. When OGA's insured person completes his 67th year and applies for retirement, if OGA finds that he was wrongly insured in the OGA or along the way he interrupted his agricultural income - for example, has a field, does five - ten years the agricultural profession and grows them and then rents them, and he continues to be insured in the OGA - with its old provisions cut the insurance. He's returning his money, but he's not retired, and this man is staying at the moment. The amendment is a gross solution to this problem. I'm stopping here. I would like, however, to say, Mr President - I do not know how it is done - to correct a mistake on a date in the explanatory statement.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u134	Correct the error and sign it after you sign it and give it to the Minutes to be copied and distributed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u135	Instead of 31 December 2016, it is 30 June 2017.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u136	My colleague also informs me that, apart from what I have said to you, the Minister must initial it, since he accepts the amendment. If he doesn't, it doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u137	She'll probably be accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u138	Good. Therefore, you and the Minister must initialise it and then testify it. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We're starting with Mr. Dimitras. Then we will continue with Mrs Karamanlis and then Mr. Dendia. Mr. Dimitras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u139	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the ministers and we as parliamentarians have an obligation to the Greek people to safeguard the public interest, namely the money of the Greeks, Mr Balaura, from those who are being smuggled. This has not happened in the past or has been poorly done. We all know that anonymous companies, particularly very large, were going bankrupt while the bosses were getting rich. Evidently, some did not do their job well, or some did it 'good' for'money' at the expense of the public interest, i.e. at the expense of all honest taxpayers. There were - and there are still - problems in the control of businesses. We are talking about anonymous companies, of course not all, but too many. In particular, the problem at the expense of the public was - and it is probably still - the companies that were moving with large bank loans and European funds. The non-controlling or incomplete control resulted, firstly, from avoiding taxation with artificial loss-making or concealing a large part of their profits. Secondly, we had drunken bankruptcies that typically all appeared legally, but large sums of overpriced money and other tricks went into the pockets of the owners of the grandparents. Who paid the bride? Workers, suppliers and banks. And when we say "banks" here, we mean small shareholders, because we know that banks have dispersed shares. There's no owner. But in the end, with the recapitalisations of the banks, the Greek people paid them, and unfortunately, Mrs Karamanlis, the next generations, our children and our grandchildren will pay for them. These fraudulent bankruptcys that seemed typically fine were eventually transferred to the next generations. That is why we all have a responsibility to abolish these phenomena or at least to limit them to the minimum. All these games of all those contributors and disgusting ones have hit the Greek people, they must finally stop! The law we are voting on and other measures must shield the interests of citizens and the future of the country and of young people. I therefore propose that the dialogue should incorporate all the positive proposals which have been heard by Members and bodies, so that we can close the loopholes or limit them to a very large extent. From the remarks which have been made, I believe that some are correct and I think, Minister, that they should be implemented. Firstly, it must be made clear that accounting companies must not be auditing and accounting. Double role can create problems. Secondly, they need to somewhat lower the limits so that they can be controlled and lowered by companies with smaller turnovers and assets. Thirdly, Article 21(1) of the Rules of Procedure. 6, which is left to understand somewhat vaguely that it can accept'small gifts' and remains to explain what is'small gift', I think we should be clear: we need to leave this paragraph and no gift, neither small nor large nor large, and dosing between control and control not to be allowed. I have also given a proposal for a legislative improvement, where I write in paragraph 6 of Article 21, that 'the natural or legal persons referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article shall be prohibited from seeking or accepting cash or non-monetary gifts or facilities from controlled companies and legal persons or any legal persons associated with the controlled companies or legal persons. Similarly, companies or other legal persons or any corporation associated with them shall be prohibited from offering cash or non-monetary gifts or facilities.’ Therefore, we must be clean and leave no windows for small or large gifts. The bill clearly improves a lot of things. Of course, it doesn't make any revolution. It is good that on the basis of many articles the training of sworn accountants is improved. However, the other restriction measures and not the elimination of the applicants are in a very positive direction. Finally, we must say that we need information and vigilance for citizens too. In addition to the institutions responsible, Greek citizens must also be vigilant of the money stolen against the Greek public and ultimately of that kind. I should like to close, Mr President, by questioning what an environmentalist wants and dealing with sworn accountants and businesses. I would like to say that the sustainable economy, the economy of survival and the justice society require rules of law and protection from all citizens and institutions of our country's interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u140	Thank you too, Mr. Comrade. Mrs. Anna Karamanlis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u141	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today's sitting is being held under the shadow of the raw and uncovered intervention of the Government in the press. The complexity of the SYRIZA version really causes awe. As soon as the SYRIZA - ANEL government's joke was the tear of the memorials. First we lived the TV license fiasco, when the government through loans from the Bank of Attica and pasture attempted to step foot on the television scene. A historical publishing complex is now in its sights. After secret meetings, "Hamalayan cats" and implying for transaction comes the placement of Mulopoulou as a positioner in DOL. The extortion and exploitation of the financial problems and the legal uncertainties of the complex are obvious and do not honor you, ladies and gentlemen of the majority. And if your anti-constitutional methods in the case of the channels were suspended from justice, your statusal practices this time will be rejected by society itself. The draft law now under discussion refers to the harmonisation of Greek legislation with a directive of the European Parliament on compulsory controls on applications and consolidated financial statements. This European directive sets out an integrated framework of the rules governing the procedure for the compulsory supervision of applications and consolidated financial statements to undertakings or natural persons. It is worth noting that the revised provisions of the relevant directive have been in force since 2014 and our country had to incorporate it into its law by June 2016. The government, however, once again demonstrated its well-known frustration. Obviously, others are its priorities - perhaps the remaining undetermined partners will be appointed, even on hot spots - and we had to get to one and the European Commission will come to be ringing at us to comply with the European rules on audits. When you fail to meet the country's typical contractual obligations towards the European Union, we now understand why you have been dragging the evaluation for months, once again as the tough negotiators. What you don't say, however, is that these "fakes" of yours and a little keep and cost expensive, bringing new burdens to the backs of Greek citizens. The New Democracy serves over time and consistently the European perspective of the country. Therefore, every legislative initiative contributing to European convergence can only be seen positively. We cannot see it either through party glasses or as the occasion for barren confrontation. There are, however, in the bill that you brought in provisions that are far from the content of the European directive and do not serve its objectives. The aim of the Directive is to ensure transparency in the granting of professional authorizations to persons carrying out checks, the establishment of independence and objectivity in the performance of their duties, the convergence of auditing standards and the establishment of a common framework for the public oversight of auditors. Your attempt to highlight the Body of Occupiers of Accountants as a key factor in controls at the same time as the Committee on Accounting and Control is certainly not in line with the objectives of the directive. In particular, Article 3 states that the right to carry out a statutory audit is limited to those auditors who are members of the EES. What is the need to dictate the compulsory inclusion of the sworn auditors in the CNEL? On what grounds do you exclude those who are not members, or perhaps want to create a corresponding House in the future? Isn't that how monopolies are created? Moreover, this provision makes it essentially forbidden to engage in a profession free of charge for auditors on account of the large contributions made by the CNEL. It actually obliges them to be employed as employees of large audit companies. Article 8 also provides for the setting-up of a five-member committee to carry out the professional examinations, in which the three members will be proposed by the CNEL. Nor is this provision drawn up in the European directive and it is yet another case of the deterioration of ELTE, which, as an independent supervisory body, should have the first reason for the examinations. The bill also provides in Article 14 that compliance with the Public Registry, which enrols the auditors and audit firms to carry out their professions, may be entrusted by ELTE to the competent professional body, i.e. the JEL. This is another case where ELTE's prestige and mission are affected as a supervisory authority. For us, the Public Registry should be the sole responsibility of ELTE and of course not to be assigned. Another provision that deviates from the European directive is that of Article 33, which provides for the possibility of quality control by the CNEL of audit firms. In other words, JES will be able to control and control the companies that are members of it at the same time, while it will also be able to control non-members, i.e. its unpaid competitors. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not the first time, of course, that the Government is using the incorporation of a Community directive into our national law as a vehicle for its own purposes. After all, its only concern has long been its party interest and power. Her destructive policy, however, has led her to a dead end. It is not saved either by the appointments or by the intrusion in newspapers and channels. It is so great that the social anger that it has caused will soon be forced into naughty fleeing. The new Republic will adopt those provisions which are consistent with the European Directive. It will, however, vote against those provisions that go beyond and above the limits of the European directive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u142	Thank you, Mrs Karamanlis. Mr Dendias has the floor as a Parliamentary representative of the New Democracy. Then Mr. Keggeroglou and Mr. Saridis will speak and if Mr. Loverdos wants, he will take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u143	The Minister didn't talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u144	He said he'd be posted after the speakers, so if you like, stay immediately after the Minister. If you don't want to, Mr. Amyras will take your place. Here, Mr. Dendia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u145	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in theory, there would be no need for the Parliamentary Representatives to speak about this legislation, because it constitutes a transposition of a Community directive and usually on these issues there is a wider consensus in the Greek Parliament. But here I am forced to go in particular, although both the curator of the Officerial Opposition, Mr. Veyropoulos, and Mrs Karamanlis, who spoke before, and Mr. Fortsakis, who will speak shortly, did and will make a full analysis of the provisions of this legislation. First of all, Minister, as our rapporteur has said, we must observe - it is not a personal burden, you are a new minister, but it is a burden on the government - the issue of delay. It is clear that this is where we should have integration in June. And as much as it was said in committee - I saw the Minutes - from you that had been consulted at the beginning of the autumn, the reality is that a letter of warning was required to get to the lodge of legislation and today's debate. But it's not that big, if you want. I, honestly, Minister, do not understand why in every piece of legislation that comes here, the government, the government majority is trying - and many times it succeeds - by using the votes of colleagues to favour a private interest, apart from logic. Why is he doing it? Does it seem that by bringing together a number of small interests will it be able to maintain a mass and prevent its demographic collapse? Is that behind or is that something deeper or worse? The government has used the term 'complexity' against all its politicians. The reality is that it proves to every piece of legislation - and I can prove it to you - we will, moreover, make a presentation of all the provisions which have been proposed by the government at times and which have been voted on - that it is intertwined with some private interest and favours it. We're coming to the bill in Article 3. Authenticated: an obligation to register for authorisation to carry out audits in the Body of Occupiers of Accountants. What are they doing here? There is a mistake because the name "Service of Occupant Accountants" gives an image of institutionality. And indeed, if one looks at the original presidential decree, n.e.c. It would be a good thing if the Council were not to take a decision on this matter, but it would be a good thing if the Council were not to take a decision on this matter. If it were a legal person governed by public law, then our objections would not exist, it would be different. But you know, Minister, that this is a legal person of private law, which has changed with the n.e.c. 121/1993. He's a legal person under private law. So I ask you, in what sense is a monopoly right conferred on a legal person? What's the logic? I honestly looked at your position in the committee's minutes. I didn't find that. Do you have anything to say to us by you and the government? You're telling us why you're doing this fat rushphetti, so I can tell you people would understand it?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u146	Is there another body?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u147	What if it's created tomorrow, Minister? Thank you for answering, and I don't mind at all. Let go of it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u148	But there's no...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u149	No, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u150	Don't do a dialectic now! The Minister notes the questions and will answer them when they are put.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u151	Mr President, you are right about that. I always accept that the rapporteur is of good intention. If the government's problem is the lack, at this juncture, of an alternative real existing solution, it may well make a legislative change, provide for the possibility, if the other professional body is established, of ending here. However, as it is formulated, it does not allow the establishment of any new professional body to enjoy the same rights. They want three - four to make something else. Why cannot they have the same rights, in the context of the proper functioning of the Hellenic Republic? You want to convince me, Minister, that now... Because you know, you will forgive me to tell you, we are not naive, and if you may not know it, everyone else in the Chamber knows it. This is a service, I say, of particular private interest. You did not end up as the government's legislative will in this solution. You have reached a joint conclusion - not you personally, you may not have ever traded, but the Ministry, and I can prove it - with a particular private body, that particular legal person. That is why you have come up with this solution. So don't tell me if there's anyone else. You can fix it. If you do not correct it, this legislation will also be recorded in the long series of private interests that you have served. In fact, in order not to end any doubt, I would ask you to look at Article 33(13), in which the Committee on Quality Control of the CNEL is given the opportunity for the ELTE to carry out quality control of the vows, while there is an opinion from the Legal Board of State, which the relevant Minister has accepted - if you do not have it, to present it to you, it is 273/2015 - which directly expresses an opposing opinion. So, what's going on here? To figure out what's going on, I mean. Everyone comes with a piece of legislation, does it succeed by a government majority in violating legality and "we're whistling"? These things can't be done. These - I am telling you, and I am telling you this with pain - which are happening with this government have never happened before. And they have never happened in the context of a Parliament operation which has often breached the limits. But what is happening now is much worse. They have an element of arbitraryness, an element of quasi-criminality. I say 'Ionian', because if they are voted on by a majority, they have a legal overlap. In the end, however, please forgive me, but some - some - are serious talk - will be ashamed of these legislation. I sincerely hope that the new Minister, who has given us no reason to question either her openness or honesty, will correct these before the vote. It'll be a great pleasure for us. And we won't triumph at all. We will consider it to be the correct functioning of legislative power, to cooperate with the proposal for a law and to achieve an honest result. I now come to the wider issue which concerns the country and society in the two days and which was raised yesterday by the Chief of Officerial Opposition, Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, and the Prime Minister, Mr. Tsipras, and other political leaders, the obvious, in our eyes and missing in the eyes of the Prime Minister, a media cycling operation. In two directions we must discuss, ladies and gentlemen. The first concerns the debate on the published decision of the Council of State concerning the most recent Pappa law. And Mr Pappas - from him, it is understandable, and it does not matter - and the government - is less understandable - what are they going to say? They say, "Hey, nothing happened. An article considered unconstitutional the Council of State. Everything else, as far as the Pappa law is concerned, well they do. Very good is the law. This is a constitutional law and should be applied’. First of all, they make a fundamental mistake. I have to tell you that the decision is quite large. I read it. I didn't study it. And for the lawyers, this is a big difference. When an article on which the entire legislative structure is based is cancelled, one cannot say that an article has been cancelled. Can I give you one example? If you blow into the air the foundations of a house, don't expect the building to stand above because you didn't put dynamite on it. It's normal that it collapses immediately. In addition, however, which is merely a reasonable argument, the decision itself states that for L.4339/2015, this is the Pappa Law - it did not contribute the National Broadcasting Council as defined in the Constitution. Consequently, the law came from an extra-constitutional procedure. The law was not complied with to be a constitutional law as a whole. Here, whether the government wants to understand it or does not want to understand it, or whether it wants to assimilate the bad political defeat it has suffered, or does not want to assimilate it, that is the reality. This is based - because, if you remember then, we had looked into the issue - in an exchange of letters on which the National Broadcasting Council sent sixteen points of disagreement to the Secretary-General, who, of course, did not take them into account. So don't be fooled. If the government tries to save anything from the Pappa law, it is making a very big mistake and it will also make a disastrous political mistake, because it will also suffer a second political defeat on the great political defeat which it has suffered. There was no reason. The political ground was completely mature for consultation on the issues of the media. We, at least, of the New Democracy, who had conducted an effort to democratise and function properly and have failed with the Karamanlis government, have told you directly. We were quite mature, then, with a wider alliance - then you were not with us, the current government majority of SYRIZA, towards you, we had found - to try again. Instead, the government preferred its party interest, not to create a proper institutional framework, but to control it for its benefit. We now come to the issue of 'DOL'. Again the Prime Minister of the country yesterday told us: “Why are you shouting? What's the matter? Doll chose Mr. Mulopoulos. What is this thing about us? It is an attempt to save a historic organisation, newspapers, jobs." We all want to save jobs. If you'd like, maybe we'd be more than the government. To be clear and clear at party level, the Labraki Journalist Agency and its publications were not printed in a friendly manner in the New Democracy. In much measured cases they joined with her in wider goals, but most of the time of the long history of the course, which was important for the site of his historic course, was opposite and ideologically and politically and partyly in the New Democracy. And many times publications from the Labraki Journalism Agency in a way - you may allow me to say - and vulgar sometimes devoured leaders of the New Democracy. Do you remember how they described the then new leader of the New Democracy Party, Kostas Karamanlis? [[At this point, the Honourable Member's speech bell is ringing.]] Mr President, if you wish, I would ask. In this sense, then, we have no party benefit. We know very well that the natural space of these forms is Central Left, but that's another matter. Another to belong to an ideological site and support it politically and other to act as an arranged space instrument without saying it. Because the 'HUNG' which says so has every right to do so, and in that respect it has our respect. The 'RIZOPASTI' is doing so directly and has our respect. But turning a whole complex into a government-speaking liar, no, that doesn't have our respect and will have our complete opposition. Please, because it can be said that these are the excesses of the Officerial Response, read the same "THES" today, a report by the journalist himself "YES" writes that a press release is being carried out by the government. Ladies and gentlemen, the country is very difficult. It is extremely difficult to assess. And if the evaluation is closed, it seems to be shut down in a painful and harmful way for the country, as painful and harmful was the way in which these insurance burdens and these tax obligations were imposed on the Greek society. We must have a framework of honest understanding in this Chamber, we must not have high tons that remove the rest of the people from this debate and make them indifferent. They have to get new, serious people into politics. But, in order to do this and achieve something, there must be a clean and honest framework. Efforts to control the press from the government are not an attempt to create this clean and honest framework. I have told you many times recently from this position that the government is coming. Whether she likes it, whether she likes it or doesn't like it, she's coming out. It may arrive in a few weeks or arrive in a few months. He's leaving. It's obvious, it's in polling, it's in society, it's in your hearts and your minds, and you, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, know it well. One thing you can do out, don't hurt the country. That is why I do not think you should allow these governmental media control methods to be carried out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u152	Mr Vassilis Kegeroglu has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u153	Thank you, Mr President. Let me say that the bill is about a matter of greater interest, but with a specific target. Of course, it appears from its content that it is acceptable for consensus and consensus, so that the legislator's intention is both effective and effective and can meet the needs that exist. I would say that there are too many issues. We can, indeed, give our consent to this, in the context of the parliamentary procedure and, of course, of the policy. But the government takes a step forward and two back. In 2014, I was responsible for implementing the minimum guaranteed income in our country. After a year of consultation, processing, studies, cooperation with the World Bank, we arrived at the project, which was piloted in November 2014 in thirteen municipalities. The guaranteed social income programme should be extended throughout the country in the second half of 2015. This was also a contractual obligation, but it was mainly necessary to address the severe problems of the extreme poverty created by the crisis. This programme is an integrated programme for the reintegration into work and of course a number of basic goods and services at the disposal of the beneficiaries. The government of SYRIZA - ANEL in 2015, at first completely contrary to this policy, instead of extending the program, as had been institutionalised, throughout the country, preferred to experiment with feeding cards, masses and something else. We and in this decision we said that we would have no objection. They are not unilateral actions, as some people have said, they are the famous programme to tackle the humanitarian crisis. He came and evaluated, and our program and our feeding card experiment. What the European Commission has adopted, of course, in the framework of the agreed policy on the national strategy for social inclusion and protection, was the reintroduction and introduction throughout the country of guaranteed social income. However, once again, the government has made tsarlatanias. The first is that instead of applying in the second half of 2015, he transferred it for the first time in 2017, from 1-1-2017, as he had told us. In any case, let it be too late, I think the good news is that it will begin. However, the programme, instead of a guaranteed social income, has now been a social grant of solidarity, as it has been called. This is a difference not only in the name, but it is also in the essence. The programme is now a passive allowance, given to people who need it. But it's not good enough. In my position today, I would like to say that although he has transferred it for two years, he is not yet ready to implement it. And he came today and asked for an extension for a month of the feeding card programme, so that the process of social solidarity benefit has been completed. I would say that with the same logic that has not happened so far, it should be more prolongation, so that it does not rush and create new problems. In any case, we are voting on this - our parliamentary representative, Mr Loverdos, has already been placed - even though in the second part on extension, namely poverty structures, we think that extension should be at least six months. Why? The poverty structures, which were set up at the beginning in the large urban centres for sixty six municipalities with a population of about 60,000 and across the country, have a specific, targeted job to deal with the severe problems encountered in large urban centres. They've been evaluated excellently. Workers have worked in this direction and have achieved what they really needed, because of the juncture, an important part of our society. One hundred and twelve thousand beneficiaries. The government for the new programming period - since these poverty structures concern the previous one - has taken advantage of the work we have done, but it has been too late - two years - and it has not created the new structures that will be financed by the new operational programme by 2020. There are, however, problems here. Over the past few days, we have denounced the recruitment process for these new structures, that they are three gears. And this procedure was indeed made public, discussed, and so the Minister's reply was given. There are three velocities because, if they operate the structures themselves, they are obliged to meet the criteria and mobilisation that the parliament has approved and the AACC will supervise to implement, while so-called NGOs are not obliged to do so, according to invitations. And those of their own conviction or decision who keep the molecules will be a truly equivalent category to that of the municipalities. But there are also NGOs, who create their own criteria, their own laws. With the same funding, for the same reason, the municipality will take with ASP and the NGOs next door will be a paragagon. So I denounce it today by this Step. And I will submit to Parliament the complaint of the workers' association, which refers to specific violations of the molecules law. It's a lot of cases.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u154	Where did the violations take place, Mr. Kegeroglu?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u155	The violations are firstly due to the lack of supervision of the AACC. In other words, NGOs are not required to send to the AACC and to approve the terms, as has been done before.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u156	I mean, NGO violations took place.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u157	NGOs and regions, which did not invigorate within their call for the compulsory molecules that this House voted about two months ago, if I remember well. So I will file these complaints concerning specific invitations. I will tell you that the Ministry tells us that - it may think so, I am not saying that it lies - if NGO recruitment is made by municipalities, these will be done by procedures and criteria under the control of the managing authorities. That's a lie. There is no such thing. It can't be done. That's the Ministry's answer to my complaint. I close, saying: it is not a simple case. It's set. Why? By who? Investigation by the Ministry, investigation by the Prosecutors of Corruption, investigation by the General Secretariat of Corruption. I tabled a new question today. I have just heard that an NGO named 'EKO' has 21 municipalities. All the other NGOs are useless and a NGO has 21 municipalities.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u158	Who's president of this NGO? Did you look for it?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u159	I don't know. It's the evidence inside. What's the important thing? That in the previous programme the NGO had the Municipality of Kalamata and two other municipalities here in Attica, whom it left in the middle. Now they trusted her to keep the programs in 21 municipalities.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u160	Finish it with this.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u161	I would ask both the Region of Attica and all the regions and the people responsible to see these, because they are without CSCE criteria, without the procedures provided for, on their own criteria. I'll testify to see it. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] They've done their own molecules. While the law says that from 50% to 80% of disability is such moleculosis, they make their own criteria. They say from 35% to 50% and from 50% to so much. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u162	All right, we'll see. Put it in the Minutes and we'll see. Thank you. I fear that it will come at some point when the state budget is distributed through NGOs, because that is where we are about to go. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, since they participated in the educational program of "KappotstyRIA" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty students and students and two teachers from the 2nd Petroupoli High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Saridis has the floor now. Then there's Mr. Amyras and we're closing up with Mr. Carras, Mr. Fortsakis and Mr. Loverdos. Come on, Mr. Saridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u163	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the subject of today's bill is indeed the supervision of supervisory professions. The substance of the law under discussion, however, is the foundation of the political will to change. ELTE is being strengthened, the profession of a sworn accountant is being shielded, and the audit companies can now operate within a transparent framework, modern and operational. I hope this will also be shown by the results. The academic and professional course of the chartered accountant’s auditors is now being made very clear and gains the objective of continuous and effective upgrading of their persons and skills. The definition of control standards and control responsibility as well as the introduction and functioning of the relevant public register allow us to be optimistic and to hope that strengthening the control mechanisms will help to restructure the economic business environment, which Greece so much needs. Greece needs not only political stability, but also an operational framework for business that guarantees transparency, trade and compliance with the rules by everyone. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill helps to get away from the image of the 'wild West' that presents the business in our country. They get rules simple and clear. Whether they are respected and how they are implemented and whether or not they eventually manage to strengthen the domestic investment environment remains to be seen. We will monitor the implementation of the law with great care, as we do with all the legislation aimed at strengthening and consolidating rules and procedures that shield the status and rights of citizens. Having said this, and by reason of our positive vote, which our rapporteur, Mr Georgiadis, has already spoken about, I would like to make some comments on some of the amendments tabled today in today's bill: For Amendment No 891 on proof of tax information, I believe that not requiring the issue of tax information, but that an administrative act determining income tax is sufficient to serve the public interest, because it is possible to remove serious obstacles to the work of the insurance intermediary. With regard to the extension of programmes to combat poverty, you are asking for another month - we have been justified by the Minister - in order to be able to implement what concerns social solidarity income and is provided for in Article 22 of the newly adopted law, No 4445/2016. You always fall out of your schedules. Extension to extension. It's not working that way. The Minister's excuse for not having enough money. Money you've shared in some other cases. Money for this place doesn't have the Ministry? As regards the granting of the public property of the area of Lavrio for the operation of children's camps, I remain in the reservations expressed by our rapporteur, Mr Georgiadis. But is this, on the other hand, a solution which serves public service or harms it? It is something that we cannot at present place easily. In order to extend the deadline for classifying taxpayers in the arrangement for voluntary disclosure of previously taxable material, the problems of the relevant law were not and are not whether they had or need time for those who have concealed money to disclose them. The problem is the same provision. It won't pay as many extensions as you do. With regard to students being able to look at the winter six-month period of study of the current academic year in all the courses they are required, regardless of whether they are taught in the winter or early six months, my view is that they should be brought to an end to the suffering of many young people who are ready to go to the market. Now you will tell me: 'On which market will they come out?' People want to go to the market. Let's give them that right. We should therefore overcome bureaucracy and I am positive in this amendment. As regards, now, the amendment to resolve disputes arising in the context of the application of airport concessions, we have not seen the Minister's arguments sufficiently to document the need for this amendment. We feel that either the public resigns from some of its duties or puts new obstacles to the privatisation of regional airports. The problem is that the government, with its ambiguity and its dubiousness, creates more problems than it solves. You have chosen, gentlemen of the government, ambiguity as a way of exercising your parliamentary obligations. You do not want to answer any questions that we ask you with a simple "yes" or "no" and in this way you think you will hide your plan and your pursuits. It is a typical example that I just got from Mr Toska yesterday. I have been trying for a year to get a clear answer to the question whether or not it is the Minister's judgement or not, whether or not the Minister recognizes that the Thessaloniki police force is undersettled. He refuses to answer. It deems parliamentary control to conceal a plan to weaken Macedonia to police force, firepower and military power. Dissolve the Police Directorate of Thessaloniki, dismantle the strength of Thessaloniki, alter the work of Security and Narcotics, while at the same time emptied Macedonia from firefighters. You're leaving Macedonia a feather. The consequences will be disastrous. The dismantling of the Fire Corps in Macedonia is a central policy - from this step to step - your decision, as was the introduction of unionism to the Armed Forces with the well-known shameful results, where officers today sue officers. We will fight in every way, as our conscience and our commitment to serve the public interest imposes on us. The dissolution of the Police and Firefighting Police in Macedonia and Thessaloniki will not pass you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u164	Mr Andreas Loverdes has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u165	Thank you. [[Applause from the wings of the PASOK - DIMAR, the River, and from the Independent MEP Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras]] Mr President, Mr Kaklamani, ladies and gentlemen, a good year, with health above all. This is my first speech in the Chamber in 2017. We are starting with a draft law, which, as Mr Koutsoukos said, we are voting on. It is a very serious matter of incorporating this Union directive. Believe me, ladies and gentlemen, from legal and scientific experience, the question of self-control - because this is the case - of businesses is a very sensitive issue. Mr Koutsoukos gave his dimension, namely how a check can be the mirror of the company that helps transparency in the field of everyday economic relations, and at the same time this transparency and this mirror can result from a customer relationship. Your accountant, who controls your finances, the accounting company that controls your finances. However, despite all our agreement, Minister, the question raised to you by Mr Koutsoukos, that is, why you are limiting the number, given the conditions prevailing in the Greek economy with the many small and medium-sized enterprises, remained open. How can you limit this so-called self-control to such a small number of companies? Why are you doing this? It is an answer we expect to hear from you. Now, you're a Minister of Finance. Your responsibility is not only public finances, because public finances, ladies and gentlemen, are the result of the operation of the private economy. That's where wealth is produced. Indeed, two years in government, by your finance ministers, the unexploited Varoufakis and the Minister, Mr Tsakalotos, but also you, all, Deputys, State Secretarys, a word about the functioning of the private economy in the context of difficulties, Greek, European and international, has not been heard by this Chamber. You only handle national accounts and that's what you're talking about. Otherwise, you are upsetting the market and working on the market. What can I say? What should I begin with, ladies and gentlemen? Do I remember Mr. Kammenos on the eve of Easter 2016, colleague of the Independent Greeks, telling us that Easter is going to come out of the Memorandum?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u166	What Easter?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u167	As of 2016.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u168	Resurrection.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u169	Remember the Prime Minister of the country, Mr. Tsipras, SYRIZA colleagues, who predicted a double resurrection, Mr. Amyras? Resurrection of Christ and the economy that big Saturday? Recent memory is certainly available, you must have it. Remember Mr. Chakaloto, who predicted the closure of the evaluation, or else elections? That was said in November, and the date when the evaluation was closed was December 5th. Doesn't that mean anything that you're talking about March for the first quarter? Doesn't that mean anything to the economy? Is it indifferent for an investor who wants to put a euro on our market? Doesn't that have anything to do with the economy? Does political stability have anything to do with the economy? The fact that Mr. Flamburis has always spoken of the bad news first, on a TV interview, has he talked about a referendum again, does that all have anything to do with the economy? Are these indifferent issues for the economy? You guys from the Treasury, you're smiling. You consider them reasonable. This dilemma posed by the Prime Minister in the form of a question in the opposition yesterday? What are we talking about, that is, the opposition parties in the new dilemmas in which the country has gone? Third Memorandum of Understanding and International Monetary Fund? Or not an International Monetary Fund and a fourth Memorandum? Does he ask what we say when he has brought the country into this situation? We say 'Go away'. That is the answer to the dilemmas you have put to us. You have brought the country there, 'forward cliff and back stream'. The people say that more appropriately, but the Step does not allow me to use any wise thing the people say. But will we respond to the dilemmas you have brought the country? Go away, it's the answer to the question that you're asking in the Opposition. So you ministers of national accounts and the enemies of the private economy must tell us what is going to happen and give us timelines. Not to come here to the House to take a walk. There are no more walks for you. There is the relentless cruel reality, which is a cruel reality for you, because it is for the Greek and Greeks, it is for the citizens, it is for the economy. You wouldn't drive us crazy. In a statement from me the other day, I said you'd send us to the psychiatrist. It's been days, hours, and I'm rethinking about it. No, you're not going to drive us crazy! You're going to leave! That's what's gonna happen. You won't drive us crazy. When you leave, the main issue for the country and its economy will come, political stability. Ladies and gentlemen, I have now stopped following the arguments of the Coupling by entering into their essence, because I thought they would look at us after talking, listening and laughing, that we are entering the dialogue that opens. On a very large television channel I listened to a member who was imminent and serious, in the image I had until then, of SYRIZA, your secretary, asking him something a journalist in the form of funny and answering: "Sir, you know my moral advantage very well." That's where I said it's over, there's no! In other words, we are no longer talking about this with you. Now the reality is what we are discussing, the criticism of what you have done and our constant intense, clear and explicit invitation to you to stand up. There's no cure in any other case. I would like to mention, ladies and gentlemen, an issue that emerged from the realities, but the Prime Minister of the country held it as an argument yesterday. His speech and the practice of the two years I think that it can be properly rendered by the title 'Clean authoritarianism'. We now go to three issues of popular authoritarianism which were heard in the Greek Parliament yesterday by the Prime Minister. The first thing is about Doll. All his opposition made a criticism of Mr. Mulopoulos' placement. The Prime Minister replied to the House yesterday, in the context of "sold madness": "Why? And Mr. Burns, after his office, didn't go back to a job? Hasn't Mr. Michelakis become the news director at the IMF1?" That's what we call every man's right to go back to his profession? Of course, every man has the right to go back to his profession, and Mr Mulopoulos and Mr Amyras and all of us, all of whom we have work to do, all of whom we have jobs. Because they're here and they're unblemished. But those of us who have jobs, when the people disapprove us, will return to our professions. This is not what this is all about. This is about the placement of a competitor. He was placed here as a composter because Mr. Mulopoulos did not return as a journalist to Doll. I think he's a retired. What's he back to? As a reporter just to write? As an expert on the structure of red loans, is it going to go to the banks and open doors because he knows the issues? Or as an observer of a political agreement in which Dimitris Mitropoulos was also released on Sunday and appeared as a resignation? What's going on there? Secondly, the Prime Minister is unfairly attacking the media, because, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we know from the confession of the Court of Human Rights that it is the political obligation to accept criticism, however acute this may be, even if the journalist writes on the basis of evidence rather than evidence. This has held me from time to time from filing and suing journalists because they have distorted reality and suffered from it. Here yesterday he attacked with personal reference to the owner of the "First Theme", who became male when he passed on to the issues of his family, where his children live. Why? Because the last pages of this newspaper refer to matters of illegal recruitment, etc. Is it not an obligation for a newspaper if it has a matter to put the government in a position to answer? Isn't that democracy? The Republic is to say "Where do your children live?" Who showed this to? So I appreciate that this attack is male. Let's go to a third-popular question of authoritarianism, which concerns the same co-ordination of issues. He said - and the Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks said today - that the decision of the Council of State, ladies and gentlemen, Decision 95/2117/EC, I have it here - on the Pappa Act, declares the Pappa Constitutional Act, because, he says, only one article puts elections. Yes, sir. What does she need here now? Shall we do a course in the Greek Parliament and say, ladies and gentlemen, that this annulling court once and for all find an unconstitutional stops the case from being dealt with further? In the first theme he examined, he identified unconstitutionality to who does the contest. The contest is made by the PSE. It is very useful for the ministers to read the decision and they will be surprised by the majority democrats - if there are still democrats on this side - when they see the arguments of Mr Pappas' lawyers when they see how much anti-democratic arguments Mr Pappas and the Government have been put together in the Council of State, when they see that if they were to accept these arguments concerning the legitimate interest, then the constitutionality of the administration's regulatory acts would have been set aside. It is incomprehensible to have the decision, to cancel your major attempt for a year and a half that you have troubled the whole world and to come and that is why to say to the Greek Parliament "we have won". However, this cannot continue and I tell you again, the solution is not to go to the doctor, it is to leave you, because more and more Greeks and Greek women understand how much you are mocking the citizens, how much you are mocking the country. Ladies and gentlemen, I close with the following phrase. We are entering a time when the closure of the second evaluation will concern us every day. The government will not clarify, we will learn from the international press, from the statements of other policies. Our politicians, majority politicians, will travel to the media and use this Step to say they win, win. One thing I will repeat, which is the voice of the Greek people: get up and go! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u170	We're moving on. Mr Georgios-Dimitrios Karras has the floor now. Then Mr Fortsakis, Mr Amyras, Mrs Amyras, the Minister, will speak and the other Members of Parliament will follow those who want to speak. Here you go, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u171	Thank you, Mr President. May I wish you a good year, too. It is the second speech I make in the House, but I think it is the first under your presidency, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u172	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u173	We are therefore talking about a law which comes as a continuation of previous regulations, which attempts to impose transparency on the balance sheets of companies, on financial statements and on consolidated balance sheets and statements. He's really useful. It is useful because it promotes transparency, if it is implemented properly. It is an incorporation of a directive which, in any case, is an obligation for the country to proceed with formal legislation. But the integrations always raise a number of issues. I looked at this bill. Every article seems to be a copy of the European directive, without any particular choices being made by the government, which would make it possible to legislate autonomously. There is a small issue that I have been following from all my colleagues before, and it is that of the College of auditors. Indeed, as my colleague said before, he is a legal person under private law. It has a collectively, typically, but nevertheless, with the obligation to register and with the powers conferred on it by the new law, it is acquired - if you like - a patent character. What's that two-faced character? The legal person of private law in terms of formality, but exercise of power in substance and therefore, Minister, now to a legal person governed by public law. That's not common. We had previously - to name - some public enterprises which had a double role, but today, with the modern economic conditions, I think that there must be a solitary form and indeed the possibility of other entities being able to register in a form of union, to write their members, to get out of a process of approval of these other entities, so that we do not lead to monopolistic situations. Because we eventually end up in this form of changing even the taking over of such forms, such entities, to competition, to competition, to the service of interests. I don't want to stay in the law any more. Because the country's economic situation, however much as we think it can start, will not show the usefulness of the law. Enterprises are currently falling. Turnovers are reduced, turnover is reduced, the number of tax seats is transferred, the registered office abroad. How, then, will we control the real Greek economy when it is actually limited daily by such a law? I would like to say a few words about the recent arrangements brought by the government, Mr President, on the potential for the development of the Greek economy. Yesterday, it was said, it was criticised that it would take twenty-one years to get to employment pre-crisis and unemployment reduction levels. Twenty-one years not to neutralize unemployment, but to reach an average of 8% of unemployment, which is tolerable by the European Union! I would like to say this: if this is the objective, Minister, not only of the Greek Government, but also of the entire Greek economy, I think it is a failure. What for? Because today, with the giganticisation - even though unemployment is low because of tourism, due to temporary activities or flexible forms of work - it does not mean that we are faced with the problem of unemployment. So I'm going to say some examples. In the last two months, we have voted for spatial planning and sustainable development and it has been announced that we have solved a problem, especially environmental, urban, but we have done something else. Land uses did not come together, so that we can see how activities can be developed and how the same situation of the past that had subsequently suspended any possibility of installing a business and of medium or heavy nuisance, for the reason that land uses had not been determined. The Deputy Minister for the Environment said 'I'll bring them soon'. We haven't seen them yet. Secondly, I am concerned about the following. Another law titled a new institutional framework for the exercise of economic activity has come with a notification. Okay. We will therefore state the start of the activity and the check will be carried out later. I can hear it. But one problem has not been solved there. Along with this law, we had to come and model environmental commitments so that the person seeking to do an activity and not wait for an environmental study or an environmental study to be approved and this law to be made free of charge. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude immediately, Mr President. Similarly, we have talked about simplifying business creation procedures. We talked about this at the beginning of December. But it is only about homogeneous and heterogeneous companies. He doesn't tell me personally as nothing legal. Because the so-called'service of a stop' I must remind the House that I have met her on my way in 1997 with Law 2516. One-stop shops will be established to resolve the issues of companies. But companies don't only need one stop, they need a banking system, they need a climate of sound economy, they need subsidies anymore from the state, so we didn't see them either. Another issue, with which I shall conclude, is this: we have adopted legislation on credit agreements for consumers for property. It's important law, but for the future, not for the present. Why? Since banks are unable to provide housing loans, what is the object of this law? I expected - and I put it - that this law would also address the question of the old abusive provisions allowing credit institutions to borrow in different currencies and win out of the conversion of the currency. This is the well-known issue of the Swiss franc, which is arousing tens of thousands of families, as its devaluation has made them incapacitated. But that's not solved either. Thus, the law is good, but the substance is weak. The soul willing, the flesh weak. I conclude with your tolerance, Mr President, on the issue of concessions. So it comes to us and the legislation tells us that airports concession companies can apply for arbitration and in the case of public service contracts. You have not explained this in the legislation, Minister, who are the public users of airport services granted. Do you know who they are? I do not know if most of you have understood that. I guess so. But I did. They are the police services, the customs services, the fire-fighting services provided by the Greek state. You are now coming and you are balancing the concession agreement with the services that provide state-owned structures at airports and through the arbitration in any case where there is a withdrawal on either side, we are reducing the costs of the concession companies and, respectively, we are burdening the actual costs required for the fire-fighting, for the aviation of the Greek state. Please take a look at this. I'll just say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u174	And that's what you'll have to close, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u175	And that is what I shall close, Mr President. It's prevalent, it's abusive and the airport contract. I did not put it in the debate before, so that it is not considered that we are trying to cancel concessions. However, what it says is unprecedented that the arbitration ruling will be final, binding and irrevocable, will not be subject to appeal or revocation under Article 897 et seq. of the Code of Civil Procedure. Not even in a court can the Greek state go to protect its interests? I therefore think that these points are important and are of interest to everyone because they do not raise the Greek economy, which we need. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u176	Madam Minister, I think that the last particular point you should see before voting time comes. For the first time I hear the Greek state not being able to object to a decision that I have been in here for years. We close with our colleague, Professor Theodoros Fortsakis. Mr Fortsakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u177	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would remind you that we are talking today about an incorporation of a directive on an object which is extremely important. The object is, of course, to ensure as much transparency as possible in the control of the annual and consolidated financial statements, i.e. a large part of the country's economic life. At a time when it is extremely difficult for economic life, it is important that we finally decide to incorporate in our legislative system rules which contribute to the control and transparency of the economic life of companies, in particular through the control of the annual and consolidated financial statements of large businesses. Our delay - and I will say it, although many of those who have spoken have stressed it - is really regrettable, because it shows a attitude of the Greek Government, which is a attitude of indifference to an obligation that has long been burdening us for reasons I cannot understand, for reasons of non-composition and of not serious response to our obligations. We have so far been indifferent to incorporate these obligations resulting from the directive. Indeed, we had to wait for our country to be called upon to apply the Community rules with a threat of being brought to court, because otherwise I imagine the procedure would not have even begun. The directive that we incorporate changed earlier Directive 2006, which laid down the conditions governing the authorisation to pursue a profession and to register in the Public Register of Occupational Accountants and the audit firms which carry out compulsory audits of the financial statements of undertakings, the rules on independence, objectivity and professional ethics applicable to such persons and the framework for their public oversight. First of all, I would like to say that it is certainly desirable to exist and to create a uniform, reliable system of rules, which creates a regulatory framework for auditing companies. I note here, however, that, unfortunately, there is no consolidation of the whole legislation, which remains dispersed. And this ministry has to take note of it so that he can fix it later. In the general remarks I have to make about this bill - and then I will say a few things more specifically as examples - I would like to stress that the concept of independence, which this bill says many times, is a concept that remains vague. Not specified. And when independence is not defined and has no specific content, we know that many problems are created when the supervision envisaged will start to apply. It would be desirable for there to be a greater definition of this concept. I would also like to stress that this draft law, in addition to the directive it incorporates, is intended and effective to implement Regulation No 537 of the European Parliament and of the Council, which applies to compulsory audits of the financial statements of entities of public interest. We as a party have always been positive and responsible to our obligations in the European Union, and we certainly do not say no to any provision that is the incorporation of a mandatory European regulation. But here, as the previous speakers have said, there are a number of provisions which either fall outside the scope of the directive or falsify it. The same applies to Regulation 537, to which I referred. There is a clear effort - and many of the previous speakers have emphasised this repeatedly - to make the Body of Accountant Accountant Regulators, which, of course, is not mentioned anywhere in the directive and in the Rules of Procedure. European legislation does not allow the controlled person to control himself and, above all, his own competitors on behalf of the state. In order to safeguard the distinction of roles, there should be a clear safeguard under the rule of law, but a lack of one. I also cannot understand why supervisory powers are conferred on the Committee on Accounting and Audit, the EPTE, which is the competent body, independent, supervisory, on the basis of European legislation, and why these powers normally belong to ELTE, are transferred to the Board of Servants. The law should not include provisions which affect the validity and mandate of ELTE as the supervisory authority of the auditing and accounting profession, as this significantly reduces it. I would like in the one minute that remains to be looked at very quickly to eight examples showing the violations of the directive, bringing to Greece rules which do not exist in the directive or which are not provided for by it. Article 3(1) The right to carry out compulsory audits shall only be exercised by the accountants or the authorised audit firms. Here we are opposed to the free exercise of professional activity. At the same time, the provision by this article that auditors or audit firms may carry out statutory audits on behalf of a single auditing company constitutes a significant restriction on the freedom to engage in an occupation. In Article 8(4), we have the same climate, which states that a five-member committee is recommended for the organisation and conduct of the professional examinations, three of which are proposed by the CNEL. Here's the CNEL, which is supervised by ELTE. So ELTE should reasonably have this work. It is also the provision of Article 11(1), mainly because it adopts a wording which does not exist in the text of the directive. The English translation - adaptation speaks of'mainly' actions of the ETUC, while the directive speaks of 'including' actions, which means, in essence, that the sole benefit of the ETUC is to safeguard its activities. Another provision which does not constitute an adaptation of the Directive is that of Article 14(1), which stipulates that the Board of Directors of the ELTE may entrust procedural matters to CNEL. In other words, the CNEL here, while it is a private body, seems to exercise public power and we all know that special attention is needed when private bodies are entrusted with public authority exercises. It is particularly problematic that Article 33(12) and (13) which provides for the possibility of quality checks by the EES in breach of both the directive and the competition law. The management of the EES will assume self-control status for its members, thus creating unfair competition for both auditors and audit firms that do not participate in its administration. Here I would also like to emphasise the opinion of the Legal Council of State, to which other speakers have referred before and which our rapporteur, Mr Veyropoulos, has tabled in the Minutes. The provision of Article 46(1) also needs to be changed, which stipulates that auditors' records must be kept for 10 years and that we should adapt to five years the obligation to retain tax data. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude by referring to Article 52(6), which provides that the regulatory acts of ELTE are to be laid down as a result of an opinion of the CNEL Supervisory Board. Here, of course, there is a risk of opacity with specific professional interests that monopolize the management of the EES. I would like to say another word about the need to adapt the control carried out on university PPE. I do not forget that I am a university student, so I would like you to see this point, Minister. The audit carried out by the PPE, the special accounts of the universities and, in particular, the provision of that only one auditor is enough and that the audit is carried out not only on the expenditure but on the whole of the accounts and, of course, without the limitations laid down in the current legislation. A final word on Mr Gavroglou's amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u178	Complete, Professor, I can't show any more tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u179	I'm done, Mr. President. Only a half word on the amendment that Mr Gavroglou has put forward. I think we all need to realise that universities at this time cannot be changed to examination centres. There is, however, a need to decompress from the vast number of students who have accumulated in the degree. So it is absolutely necessary to make it easier for children who are at the degree to finish, because the numbers that are burdening schools are extremely high and do not let them function properly. I hope that in future these issues will be regulated by the universities on their own, without legislative intervention. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u180	Before giving Mr Amyras the floor, I will give Mr Giannakides the floor for a minute to support a parliamentary amendment so that the Minister knows, when he comes up to the Step, to tell us whether or not she will be accepted. Mr. Giannakides, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u181	Thank you, Mr President. The proposed provision as a member of the Board of Directors of ELTE will also be the Chamber of Economics in place of the Association of Industries of North Greece to the satisfaction of and the request that had been heard during the meeting of bodies. It relates essentially to paragraph 6 of Article 1 of Law 3148/2003 and essentially to the position of the Industries Association of Northern Greece enters the Chamber of Finance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u182	There are already copies of the amendment, ladies and gentlemen. I say this because they may want the rapporteurs to see it before they are put to the vote. Mr. Amyras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u183	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on this bill is taking place at a time when all the key economic issues are unfortunately again in the air, the second assessment, short-term measures, the medium-term programme and structural reforms. The more these issues remain unresolved, the more easily they hover unfavourable, bad, bloody scenarios for the country where the known extremists are moving, as we have learned to tell them, circles of Europe, by pressing on to the inability of your Government to negotiate quickly and effectively. Time is not on the side of the country, and unfortunately we do not have you, the ministers, no clear picture of your intentions. I would say that you are constantly pointing your fingers at the ministers, and I would say that you are constantly violating deadlines that you have set yourself. The so-called red lines are constantly fading, of course, depending on the inspiration of the authors of Maximos' non papers. No one knows, not only in this Chamber, but throughout the whole country, what you are pursuing. Do you want the IMF to remain in the Greek programme, as you requested in your earlier letter - and I refer to Mr Tsakaloto - or not why do you consider it a source of evil? Do you accept measures beyond 2018, or do you categorically exclude them, as you were telling us by November? Will there be a cutter after 2019 with a primary surplus of 3.5% that you spent? When will the short-term debt measures be undone? When will the medium-term debate be held? What measures do you propose to close the second evaluation? Do you accept reducing the tax-free limit and increasing the VAT? These are questions not in theory, they are practically important questions that seek answers. I have therefore tried to find an official government source and a line, for example, on the issue of the duty-free limit. I recall an earlier statement by the Minister of Finance, Mr Tsakalotou, in May 2016, which said that if duty-free under EUR 9,100 were reduced, he would resign. The tax-free has fallen to 8,600 euros and Mr. Tsakalotos is fine sitting in his place. So what's going to happen? What's the future? So listen to what I have done, to see the bilinguality of this government and of all, of course, of its 'pads'. I raised the day after Mr Tsakalotou's meeting with Mr Michel Sappen's French counterpart on 12 January. Take note, then, that on page 12 of the party newspaper “SYNE”, the main theme for Tsakalotou contacts in Paris is the following. I read them to you: 'The only issue the government is discussing' - Mr Chakalotos said - 'is the extension of the budgetary cut after 2018. In this context, it cannot be ruled out that there will be a budget cut - look at - provision for a reduction in the tax limit in 2019-2020, if the targets of those years are not met." These are on the top half-page of "AGE". On the bottom half of "AGE" page, listen: "Scure: The Government does not accept a reduction in duty." In other words, on a page we have panzurism, we have this madness of this government. Half the page tells us that Chaakalot does not accept a new reduction in duty, but he will accept it if we don't finally catch the targets and the next half of the page is the resistance. The government does not accept a reduction in duty. Who, then, can I believe Mr. Tsakalotos who accepts a reduction in the tax or Mr. Skourletis who says he won't accept? Who's the editor, who's the reporter? Up or down? Ladies and gentlemen, this is the way in which this government is negotiating and finally, as we are used to saying, it raises the account, the mess for Greek citizens. Where, just in November in his editorial of the authors, the Prime Minister said that the evaluation would be immediately closed in early December and that the memorials end in mid-2018, now things are very different, much worse and we have three options: First road, sign a 3-plus Memorandum with the participation of the IMF and determine it to be unclear. The second road is to sign a fourth Memorandum without the IMF, which should either be approved by the German Parliament, something that even Mr Symble does not recommend to you the third road, which I fear is that you can also a little smuggle him, put a little bit of your foot on him, is to bring back nightmare scripts that I don't even want to name from this House's Step for the economy and the Greek society. So there, where you would rip the memoirs, go make a world record: Two memos in less than two years. However, we want clear answers to both the VAT tax and the IMF's participation in the Greek programme and the pensions, which officially entered the "cutter" with the letter of commitment of the SYRIZA Government - ANEL in the memorandum and, finally, we want to know what the cuts will be and who will be affected. On this occasion, Mr Minister, I would also like to refer to the primary surplus announced by the Ministry of Finance in 2016. I am therefore rereading from the “SGEI”: “The primary surplus is 4,4 billion euro in 2016 compared with a target of 1,98 billion.” In other words, 'the objective of 121%' is celebrated. Yes, it could be her new year, but how did it come, how did this surplus come about? It resulted from the overtaxation of citizens and businesses, from the cut in the Public Investment Programme by EUR 500 million. I did not see that anywhere, but you did not mention the increase in late payments to the private sector, the public sector. But there is one point you must be careful of the record surplus that you have announced. If you are cutting off the Public Investment Programme, if you are increasing the public debt to the private sector, if you are over-taxing the last citizen and any economic move as you do and show a surplus of over 2% of GDP in terms of recession, I fear that you are arming the other side that will reasonably say in the country: Since this government accepts and shows a surplus of 2% in these conditions of stagnation, why not accept a surplus of 3.5% and after 2018 that has a great growth, as this government assures us? That is why we need attention, and we need clear words and answers and clear policies. I doubt we'll have these from this government. However, above all, we want answers about where the assessment is and what it expects citizens in relation to taxation and insurance. Now I would like to make a few comments, for example, on Doll, ladies and gentlemen, on the Lambraki Group and on the successor to Mr Psych. So I feel that Mr Mulopoulos was not placed in the doll as a strategic investor. Does Mr. Mulopoulos have any money? He doesn't have them. I think it is more of a strategic'strategic man', a planter from the government and those who want to ride the press. But, ladies and gentlemen, especially you of SYRIZA and the government, must realise that there have been times when a publishing complex influenced the world and led the political situation in its own interests. There's the internet. There is now another way people can learn the truth or at least seek it. So those who think that with a strategic "white man", planted in a publishing complex in the country will do a job, are deeply late. I would like to make two comments, ladies and gentlemen, on the ratification of this European directive. I want to say the following two very specific things. Article 3 of the Community Directive, the European Directive, provides that the ELTE, the Committee on Accounting and Audits, is only responsible for granting a professional licence. We are therefore talking about a clear violation of European legislation. I would also like to tell you something else about Article 8. The European directive in Article 8 says that the time limit for practical training is three years. You've been doing this for five years. Why is that? So the European directive clearly defines three years as the minimum period for practical training rather than five. We also have the following infringement: Article 3(1) of this draft law tells us that only accountants or audit firms authorised to pursue a profession and members of the Board of auditors are entitled to carry out compulsory audits. This leads to a blockage of the free exercise of professional activity and we have met it in other European countries, which have also incorporated in their own national law a number of such articles - in particular that - and they have been forced to take them back. Ladies and gentlemen, the political situation in the country - I will say it once again - is such that it obliges us all to cooperate. All the wings of this Parliament must finally find a common place, build on what we agree. In what we disagree we have the way either through elections or through other procedures to cross-check our swords, but in economic matters, which are inextricably linked to the political stability or instability of our country, we must finally become more demanding of ourselves. That's what I had to tell you. The rest, in relation to the vote on the articles, will be taken by Mr Dannelis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u184	Madam Minister, because you have been very patient with your own weight on the part of the government and because we have made the Members of Parliament talk, I propose that we close with the other three Members of Parliament and close the sitting, unless the Members of Parliament want to hear the Minister and close the sitting with the remaining ones. It's Mr. Shahinides, Mr. Megalamustakas, Mr. Lazarides and Mr. Mandas. So, should the Minister speak and you close? Do you want to hear it? I am addressing the Members of Parliament. You all agree. Come on, then, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u185	Mr President, we also have to take up the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u186	I'm talking about prototypes now. A number of colleagues have already been put on the amendments. Mr Koutsouko, when it is time and you want to talk about an amendment, as the Rules stipulate, you will take the floor, but do not draw until 18.00" for the amendments. Your Parliament has also spoken. Well, you have the right. Minister, instead of eighteen minutes I give you twenty, because you might want to give some answers or clarifications.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u187	I'll see you in a few seconds, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u188	Just be in the time frame, don't you? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u189	I'm sure I'll speak less. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, because things have been heard today in the Chamber that do not concern this bill, but are generally issues relating to the financial staff, without celebrating, but to say things by their name, I will say that we have an increase in employment by two hundred and thirty-two thousand people from the first quarter of 2015 to the third quarter of 2016 and a fall in unemployment by 4%. It's not important. We are not celebrating, but we must point it out. Secondly, we have an increase in GDP for three consecutive quarters. The definition of a return to growth is the continuous increase for two quarters. Thirdly, we have an increase of 1.8% in real GDP in the third quarter of 2016. Fourthly, we have an increase of 12.6% in the volume of gross fixed capital formation. Fifthly, we have a 10.2% increase in exports of goods and services. We have a positive balance for the first time since 1948. We have an increase of 5.1% in private consumption, an increase of 228% in foreign direct investment, an increase of 2.3% in the overall industrial output index. We have an increase of 2.2 points in the economic climate index in December. All of this - I insist - without celebrating, by the first government to take on the goals. And the government didn't just catch the targets, but it crossed them, giving them 620 million to the retired. That is because we have reduced the targets by negotiating. You tell us dangerous, you signed surpluses of 6.7% and others would sign in 2016 surpluses of 4.2%, in 2017 4.5%, in 2018 4.5%. You signed over 20 billion more for the years 2015-2018. It is a fact that the government is working hard to close the second assessment and is even trying to get it done as quickly as possible. We're in the right direction. All players involved want a solution. The closure of the evaluation will take place without any new legislative measures. But what we have not seen yet is the support of counterpopulation in the efforts of the Greek Government. Every time when we reach the agreement, opposition creates a sense of drama. The New Democracy is asking for elections. Today we heard news. Does the Democratic Reconciliation also want to tell us whether it wants elections, or is it just a personal view of Mr. Loverdos?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u190	Mr. Loverdos is a parliamentary representative and on the basis of the Rules of Procedure he represents his party.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u191	Then we understand that this is your intention too, ladies and gentlemen. We hope, however, that your positions are not the same as those of Mrs Xiafa of the International Monetary Fund. As regards certain issues raised by Mr Amyras, the short-term ones ceased on 24 December 2016. For all the rest, answers have been given. As far as the Public Investment Programme is concerned, the whole programme has not been implemented. This does not mean that it has something to do with revenue. The 2017 Public Investment Programme is much larger. It's 500 million bigger than the previous one. There will be no new legislative measures. I said it before. If you think that what is described for the cut is equivalent to something legislative, I'm sorry, but reality disagrees with you. This was also seen in 2016. You told us that the cutter would be applied. In 2016, not only did we not get out of purpose, but we did get over them. So far you have criticised us because we don't get the targets, and now you're saying that we're bad enough to catch them. Decide what you want, anyway, from a government like ours. Now let's see some issues about the bill. The draft law incorporates the European Parliament Directive in our country's legislation and amends Directive 2014/56 of the European Parliament and amends Directive 2006/43, on compulsory controls on annual and consolidated financial statements. The aim is to ensure further harmonisation between European countries of the rules on the conditions of authorisation to pursue a profession and to register in the public register of natural persons and entities carrying out compulsory audits of the financial statements of undertakings, rules on independence, objectivity and professional ethics and the framework for their public oversight. Since the number of amendments required to adapt Greek legislation is high, we preferred to draft a new single legislation and you agreed on that too. By way of exception, certain amendments are made to the provisions concerning the Committee on Accounting for Standardisation and Control in order to strengthen the role of the competent authority in the area of quality controls. The role of the competent authority is strengthened, and only the possibility, not the obligation, of conferring certain powers to the professional body. Even under the conditions laid down by the directive to ensure the necessary avoidance of conflicts of interest, any discretion is exercised within the letter and the spirit of the directive and is fully in line with the relevant existing Greek and international context. The bodies which attended the meeting of the committee responsible also agreed on this. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative was referred to in Article 3 for which auditors have the right of compulsory control and the obligation to be members of the CNEL. SYRIZA, from what you said, was formed by Presidential Decree 226 of 1992 and was not a government, the government was New Democracy and Constantine Mitsotakis. And then the CNEL determined where the licenses will be granted and now it remains the same. He's really the only professional body in the area. All companies, all sworn auditors are members of the EES. If you have to tell us there are some people, name them to listen to them, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u192	We don't say so, Minister. The report of the Parliamentary Scientific Service says so.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u193	Name it from there and then, if there's...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u194	Have you read the report from the Scientific Agency?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u195	Of course, we read it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u196	Mr. Vesuropoule, don't interrupt. You'll talk later.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u197	From there on, if another entity emerges, we have no objections to see how it is to happen. In fact, I mentioned before that it was possible. It's not mandatory. Let me add something here, that at some point Mr. Fortsakis mentioned Soll. There's a difference between Soll and CNEL. SOL is a particular company of sworn accountants. JEL is the Body of Occupants of Accountants. It's, as Mr. Karras said, a legal person of private law. I really do not see where the possibility is given here to an entity that has under its umbrella all the auditors and what a problem it poses. The Directive makes it possible to increase transparency and predictability applicable to such persons in order to strengthen their independence, in a uniform manner at European level. At the same time, public oversight of auditors and audit firms is strengthened to improve investor protection. This is achieved by consolidating the independence of the public oversight authorities and conferring appropriate responsibilities on them in order to identify, prevent and prevent infringements. In summary, the new legal framework redefines the terms and conditions for granting professional authorisation to auditors and accountants, their conditions of registration in the Public Registry, the rules of professional conduct which ensure independence, objectivity, confidentiality and professional secrecy in the performance of their duties. The auditing standards are defined and entrusted exclusively to ELTE the general supervision of the system of public supervision of the audit profession. Supervision shall be strengthened by conferring powers to carry out investigations and sanctions whenever infringements are detected. Special attention shall be paid to the application of compulsory checks on the financial statements of entities of public interest and shall be given to the institutional framework of the Audit Committee, which each entity must have a public interest. To sum up, with the incorporation of the directive, particular attention is paid to the following: first, to the public interest entities, banks, listed and defined by ministerial decision, because of its significant public impact, resulting from the scale and complexity of their activities or from the nature of their activities. Secondly, the independence of a controlled auditor. For example, the concept of the network is to be kept in the archives concerned. Thirdly, respect for the rules of confidentiality. Fourthly, the public oversight of statutory auditors and audit mechanisms and the possibility of imposing sanctions. Fifthly, the protection of informants. Sixth, under licensing conditions and seventh, to improve the business environment for small enterprises. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Anastassios Kourakis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] With regard to the amendments tabled, the first is required by insurance intermediaries - intermediaries to produce an administrative determination of income tax rather than proof of tax information for their registration. The second is a monthly prolongation of the feeding grant period to cover the period until the activation of the Social Solidarity Income, rather than an allowance, which was heard by a colleague from the Opposition and the start of the payment process in February. The thirty pilot municipalities are also extended to the universal application of the Social Solidarity Income and the indebtedness of the needs of vulnerable sections of the population. Accordingly, the gap is covered by national resources in the financing of direct poverty social structures, as the period co-financed by the NSRP 2007-2013 expires and until the beneficiaries are integrated into the NSRP 2014-2020, so that the benefits do not remain uncovered by services. The third amendment provides that differences between public users of airports and concessionaires will be subject to arbitration, in accordance with the concession agreement. It concerns differences in spatial planning, upgrading, maintenance and management of installations. The fourth amendment deals with the problem, so that the children's camp of the Association of Ministry of Finance in Lavrio can continue to operate uninterruptedly. The federation has been granted for forty years retroactively since 1998 the use of the public property in Lavrio in exchange for the amount already paid, amounting to 30 million drachmas, which should otherwise be reimbursed at an interest rate of 7%. Finally, the fifth amendment extends until 7 February the deadline for subjecting undeclared income to the regulations of Law 4446/2016 in order to allow for sufficient time for the taxpayers who have already notified a temporary correction of tax or fine, which expired in a few days. The proposal for an extension of this deadline was also made by various colleagues in the Opposition. I would also like to refer to the amendments which I accept. The first amendment, concerning the OGA, is a very important amendment. Problems are solved in people who had paid enough money to the OGA and did not receive pension at the end of the entire Greek territory. Now they have the possibility, they are not obliged to repay the money but to retire. I therefore accept this amendment, as well as correcting the date that has been taken. I also accept the second amendment, and as a member of the Greek Chamber of Economics, I also welcome the initiative of Members, a member of the ELTE Board of Directors, to be the Chamber of Economics. I think that there is no problem with BSE representation, because the BSE position in Northern Greece can be covered by BSE. To conclude with the amendments and return to the main theme of the bill, I would like to point out briefly that the incorporation of the directive gives rise to particular attention: firstly, the fact that it will contribute positively to dealing with issues relating to compulsory controls on the annual and consolidated financial statements, while the amendments introduced and the legislative improvements resolve a number of issues which have appeared in the course of the debate, either in the committees or in the plenary. If there are any other questions, we will see them at the end of the sitting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u198	Thank you, Mr. Catherine Papanatsiou. We shall proceed to the parliamentary representatives.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u199	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u200	Mr. Loverdo, here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u201	Madam Minister, you have made a reference to me and to what I said as a political slogan. In my speech I told you about the request of the Greek society and the Democratic Incorporation, which is "Get up, go!" You wondered whether this was my personal concern or the parliamentary group. You are not required - you have a workload - nor do you read or listen to what is said here in the House. However, the Rules of Procedure, Minister, obliges all of us to know that the parliamentary representative expresses the President - in this case the President of the Democratic Independence - and all Members. And if you had the time to read a newspaper - of course, the Prime Minister forbids it - you would see that this request is a universal request for democracy. And it doesn't matter so much if it's a request from the Democratic Alliance as important as it's a request from all the people. And if you go to Zagora - because from the CV I've seen you from there - they'll tell you in all three squares of the Zagora. It is a universal demand for Greek society. Finally, Mr President, I was hit by what the Minister said, and now I address you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u202	Yeah, but now you're commenting on the placement?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u203	Yeah, I'm done.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u204	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u205	I'm done, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u206	Finish in thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u207	You gave me two minutes and I haven't even spoken one. I'd be done now. It says the Minister: 'I accept the amendment of the Member of Parliament and the Members of Parliament'. Yes, sir! Does he have a legislative initiative? This arises - she knows - from the assignment of powers by Mr Tsakalotos and the Prime Minister. Does he have a legislative initiative? If it does not have a legislative initiative - and this results from the relevant Prime and Ministerial Decision - it cannot accept amendments. You should now regulate it, Mr President, and until the sitting is closed, because we are in the amendments and have said that we are voting.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u208	Okay, understand. The State Secretary will answer you. Here, Mrs. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u209	First of all, it is very insulting what you said and I want you to take it back and erase it from the Minutes, what you mentioned, that the Prime Minister does not allow us to read newspapers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u210	He said so.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u211	He didn't say that. And please, I demand that it be erased from the Minutes, Mr President. You need to get it back.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u212	I insist. What the Prime Minister says is what the Prime Minister says and not me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u213	Yes, all right.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u214	So low, Mr. Comrade?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u215	From there on, in my portfolio is the legislature with the Minister. So, I can officially...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u216	Okay, thanks. Ladies and gentlemen, before we move on, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty-nine students and students, as well as three teachers from the 8th General School of Patras. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] To inform students and students that they are undergoing legislative work. We are at the stage of discussing a draft law from the Ministry of Finance. At the end of the debate there will be a vote and the draft law will become a state law, in accordance with Parliament's decision. Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, Mr Ioannis Sahinides, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u217	Thank you, Mr President. Before I refer to this draft law, I shall refer a little to some current developments. As far as the draft law is concerned, I will talk about the amendments. What we have seen in recent days from the media - whether they are called channels, forms or websites - is that there is a misinformation, but at the same time a silence. Why do we say that? Because yesterday there was a convening of a municipal council in Perama, on the incidents to which a lot of people have referred and within this House. In fact, yesterday some former Minister had the courage during the speech of the Head of the Third political party to end the process, which was at the level of party leaders, in order to ask the plenary to condemn the Golden Dawn. Truly, this conviction is very selective. Not only did no party come out, but there was also encouragement to have incidents at the expense of Golden Dawn, as we had seen in the opening of the city of Veroia at the offices of the local organization. In fact, the constitutional arch... And no one came out, but no one in this House condemned the violence. For you there is good violence and bad violence. Keep in mind that, whenever necessary, the Golden Dawn only exercises good violence because it does not exercise violence. Understand some things. Yesterday, in our Chief's speech, there was - completely random! - an interruption of the signal in the largest part of the Attica basin, as in all of Greece, and by miracle after the end of our Chief's speech, the damage was restored! It's something we're used to now. We know very well how the system treats us. But what the system does not know is how we deal with them. So yesterday, as I mentioned before, it became a municipal council in Perama where the fliers again today wrote that golden parents were re-created. If all those who complain about the righteous of the Greek nation are baptizing them golden, it is indeed our honor. But we did not hear anywhere, nor in any channel, nor in any newspaper, the resolution of the board of directors of the parents and guardians, which, gentlemen, was 86-0. The people who had gone to school, where what was played, were from parents and guardians of other schools. The association of parents and guardians in Perama had decided that they would not want to take part in this procedure in introductory appeals, and indeed as we have told you by a majority of 86-0. So no one took that into consideration. Just by democratic procedures - again in quotes - they decided that they could bring to any school children who have baptized them children of war. No, gentlemen! We have told you several times. Indeed, some children come from war - having countries. But you have to bear in mind - we have repeatedly said - that the total comes from at least seventy eight countries. This results from logging of poachers. So not all of them can be called refugees. Not all of them are war-fighting countries. But what do we see here? We see that Mr Mouszalas himself had said that he is unable to control the NGOs, who have undertaken to replace the Greek Government in her work. Really, why is that? They must have judged, Minister, that you are people who cannot trust money. There have been scandals of scandals. You have in mind that even here in Athens, before the coming of the hordes, there were various night schools of migrants. There are certain gentlemen who should not just be convicted, but convicted of burning MARFIN and the well-known ones, who manage many NGOs. One of them manages eleven NGOs. Two of these have been managed within a decade of 3,800,000 euros for immigrant schools. They're renting some semi-globes, putting up a sign, and in the end you know what they're doing? They have a table with five biscuits and two soft drinks and they charge catering for 4,000, 6,000, 8,000 euros. Indeed, a party has been set up at the expense of the Greek people. Golden Dawn is willing to denounce all this, uncover it, and all those who are to blame to pay for everything that has been done. Yesterday there were some websites that actually uploaded our Chief's speech, but unfortunately most did not upload it. And you know why? We'll explain why. They were afraid to highlight the positions of the Golden Dawn on agricultural issues. Which one of you, which other party in this House has the courage to say publicly that if and at any time if they are required to take over power in that country, the farmers' debts will be removed. Only the Golden Dawn and no one else can do that. As I said, there is a very selective sensitivity to matters. Yesterday, in particular, there was another attack on a man in the city of Veroia, who, as they write all the media on the internet, passed him, says, anarchists for chrysogite. And they apologized for the mistake they made. So, what's going on? Can these garbage make concentrations at the expense of the third political force? Can these garbage have the official escort of the Greek state with the police and roam? From where, really - and this should be seen by Minister Protos, Mr Toskas - these three buses have been leased to the city of Veroia and the ten taxis to prevent the opening of a legitimate political party. In any case, there must be responsibilities. And it is the duty of the Minister for Civil Protection, who was not at all ashamed to invite them to dialogue. What else are we gonna see? We have already heard from the Minister that there have been increases in jobs. Really, where do you see this? You see these paintings, which for us do not actually exist? There are other paintings. Why don't you take them into account? This was recently passed on to plastic money. Do you know that within the first quarter of 2016 there were thirty thousand cases of plastic money fraud? In other words, when the use of plastic money is universal, we will have more than a hundred and twenty to fifty thousand cases of illegality. They'll have stolen the codes from the plastic money and imagine what's going to happen. It's all very selective indeed. But what we have seen in recent days is your inability to manage the money for the so-called refugee. It seemed to me that last night that on any channel I changed after 2.00 ́, there were endless ads by so-called NGOs. In fact, one of them offers 75 euros for every refugee who will host any Greek at home. It also advertises that it will receive a EUR 100 aid from each refugee, who will be hosted by these individuals. But nobody mentions how many of these NGOs have been controlled. We've said it another time. From 2000 to 2010 in Greece over ten thousand non-governmental organisations have been active and not non-profit-making. You know very well, Minister, what a party he's got on this. They also referred to the media - and we need to make that clear, because they call us and tell us a lot of things - in cooperation whenever there are elections to the Golden Dawn with some other parties. We denounce this Step that the Golden Dawn will only cooperate with the Golden Dawn and with none of the other treacherous constitutional parties. We have made that clear. Indeed, our leader has said that if anyone wants to come to the Golden Dawn ranks, it is essential that they have not voted for memos and that public money has not been misused. As you are used to every draft law every time, you are bringing too many amendments. But you have never accepted an amendment from the Golden Dawn Association. The Golden Dawn has tabled an amendment with a general number of 896 and a special number 131, which refers to the special security staff. And I'm reading you, Minister: "In the draft law of the Ministry of Finance, Article 19 of Law No. 1339/1983 is replaced by the following: local authorities (a) and (b) of the legal persons governed by public law, public undertakings and bodies, public utility enterprises, banks, the preservation of public property, the prevention of crimes against persons or goods in the above premises and the safe escorting of money from these bodies, at the request of the relevant agency, legal person, organisation or undertaking and approval by the Minister of Civil Protection, security guards and security guards. A decision of the Minister for Civil Protection shall establish an authorisation procedure for the recruitment of special security personnel. Secondly, the special security staff, the security guards, that is, shall be a special category of personnel of the organisation to which they are recruited and exclusively perform the tasks referred to in paragraph 1. The employment of such staff shall be prohibited in tasks other than the purpose for which they are recruited and any operation entrusted to it shall be automatically void. The penalties are imposed on the administrations of the bodies which are illegal, in breach of the above ban. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Thirdly, the special security staff are trained theoretically and practically in the Schools of Greek Police. Fourthly, the special security staff shall bear compulsory uniforms and protective equipment in the performance of their duties. The uniform type is uniform for all operators. Fifthly, the provisions of Article 10 of Law 2168/1993 on the regulation of matters relating to arms, ammunition, explosives, explosives and other provisions and the delegated acts adopted by that Law are applicable to arms issues. The decision of the Minister for Civil Protection shall lay down the conditions and procedures for the granting of a licence for arms, arms, import, transfer and purchase of arms and ammunition, the conditions of safe protection of arms and related obligations, the issues of decommissioning and decommissioning of weapons and any necessary details. Sixth, the remuneration and expenditure for the supply of uniforms and armaments and the training of security staff shall be borne by the bodies to which such personnel are recruited. Seventhly, for the special security staff, the contractual employment relationships of workers and employers and their general rights and obligations shall be governed by the relevant provisions applicable to personnel of recruitment bodies, without prejudice to the provisions of labour law which regulate the same matters more favourably. Their remuneration may not be set below the first designated officer. Eighthly, the termination of the contract of employment is justified, firstly, for disciplinary or occupational failures, secondly, due to the end of the period of duration or termination of the contract of employment or dismissal, in accordance with the relevant provisions applicable to staff of recruitment bodies under the provisions of labour law. Compensation for termination of the contract of employment or dismissal shall be paid by the employer in accordance with the provisions of labour law. The State shall not be required to pay dismissals. Ninth, the dismissal for the reasons referred to in subparagraph (a) of the preceding paragraph shall also be entitled to request a police department designated for the supervision of security staff. The Council, acting by a qualified majority on a proposal from the Secretary of State for Protection of Citizens, shall determine, firstly, the manner and procedure for selecting and hiring candidates and their specific qualifications, secondly, the training and retraining, thirdly, the uniform which they must bear and the appearance which they must have, fourthly, the weapons and the above defined, fifthly, the disciplinary infringements at work or outside and the way in which they are assured, and the disciplinary or disciplinary bodies or disciplinary procedure in disciplinary proceedings in disciplinary proceedings and the manner in which they are to be imposed, sixthly, the disciplinary actions which justify a solution to the contract of employment and dismissal, as well as the dismissal procedure, seventhly, the police department designated for the purpose of verifying and complying with the provisions of that Article and the regulatory acts adopted for its implementation, as well as for the supervision of security staff, eighth, all details necessary for the implementation of that Article. Eleventh, supervision of the performance of the tasks of security staff shall be carried out both by the bodies where such personnel provide their services and by the police, where appropriate, for the supervision of security personnel. 12th, the State shall in no case be obliged to compensate a third party for acts or omissions in the performance of the tasks of security specialists. Third, it is forbidden to transfer the person recruited as security staff to another category or branch of personnel of the same or other body before completing an eight-year actual service after completion of basic training at the Greek Police Schools. Any transfer operation contrary to the preceding subparagraph shall be automatically void. We call, Minister, for you to accept the Golden Dawn amendment. To close, to note and say: anarchists and Bolsheviks, this land does not belong to you. We'll take our country back, whether you want it or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u218	Mr Loverdo, you will allow me to say that on the matter you have raised, we are waiting for a document from the General Secretariat of the Government, where it substantiates the State Secretary's claim. So I'll give you the floor as soon as we have a document.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u219	I have nothing to say. But I am now asking for the floor on the Rules of Procedure, because I have the document and I want to tell you what my point is.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u220	I'm listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u221	I want you to know that, because I have many years in this House, I have never been a legacyist or meticulous, like others. I don't have a problem with the Minister, no problem at all. I respect her, just like everyone else. But I asked her: Do you have a legislative initiative? And he tells me I do. I therefore read the relevant act on the powers conferred on the State Secretary, Mr Papanatsiou, and says: 'Legal initiative, which is carried out only jointly with the Minister'. As far as the amendments are concerned, there is no objection. As far as Parliament's amendments are concerned - and we support them, if not all, but we support them - we are already in place, we have no objection. But the Minister's assent must be expressed, otherwise it is not possible, Mr President. It's your thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u222	We'll see. We'll wait a while and come back. In the meantime, we will give the floor to Mr Georgios Lazaridis, Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks, for twelve minutes. And we'll see later.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u223	Thank you, Mr President. Before I begin my remarks on this bill, I would like to make a few comments on the permanent request - and now it is now more dynamic - of counter-population, where the government says 'go away', making comments on the delay in evaluation, etc. And I want to say this now. To leave this government to see who? To come, whose country's destruction is signed? Because the country's destruction has a name, we've said it before, PASOK and New Democracy. Because the debt, 120% - because that was where the country's crisis started - they brought it. That government didn't bring it. Then they convinced the Greek people, who trusted them, and gave them the government, and from 120% they took it to 180%. That was the country's saviors! So they increased it by 50%. And now they are asking for the Greek people to trust them again. You know what he's saying? Another 50% to put it up, take it 270%. This is the only sure thing if the Greek people can trust them. In the five years that have ruled the country since the start of the crisis, they have not even had an indicator that has given the citizen the room to smile. All of these indicators were negative. They received unemployment at 9% in 2009 and delivered it to 27% in December 2014. This government within a year and a half of 27% lowered unemployment to 23%. Of course, no one can celebrate this, but in any case, it is one step that the government is making some efforts, taking some steps and moving in the right direction. I have already heard the representative of the Democratic Association talking about the unconstitutionality of the law on channel licences, on electronic media. He talked about the unconstitutionality of the law, and in particular about who will be responsible for the competition for channel permits. He said that the decision speaks of unconstitutionalism with regard to the Minister and says that the PSE should normally be responsible for the competition. That is what the decision actually says, but the decision continues and says something else, that it was unconstitutional and blocking the composition of the PSE, because the obstacles to becoming the composition of the new PSE did not make by this government. The two parties of the Opposition, New Democracy and PASOK, put them in. They blocked the composition of the new PSE. As also, the decision continues and says it was unconstitutional and non-legislative and the operation over so many years of the channels. What I have said on another occasion from the Step in plenary that you cannot accept that for twenty-seven years without proper permission these channels are compatible with the Constitution or with the public on a legal basis. To tell the truth, because - you know - half the truth corresponds to a whole lie. I'd like to make some comments about the bill. This bill deals with and lays rules for an important professional body, the sworn accountants, which is especially necessary today that we need investment from abroad, which needs to be carried out in order to have a picture of the operation of businesses, but also of their real economic sizes. It is therefore a bill in the right direction with regard to market accountants, because we also have other market accountants, which there is no control there, there are other rules there. It is this category to which we were put, in 2010, when they brought us here to the IMF and delivered us to the markets, because for them there are no rules, these MODY'S - I do not know what they are called - are those who bring up and down governments and create some virtual realities, whether it concerns countries, peoples or stock exchanges. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law is incorporated into the Greek Law Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 amending Directive 43/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 May 2006 on compulsory controls on applications and consolidated accounts. The Directive, as amended and supplemented by Directive 56 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April, lays down the conditions governing the authorisation to pursue a profession and to register in the public register of natural persons and entities as referred to in the draft law, which carry out compulsory checks on the financial statements of undertakings, the rules on independence, objectivity and professional ethics applicable to those persons and the framework for their public supervision. After years it has been considered necessary to further harmonise these rules at European Union level in order to allow for greater transparency and predictability of the requirements applicable to such persons and to strengthen their independence and objectivity in the performance of their duties. The purpose of the amendment is to increase the minimum degree of convergence, with regard to the auditing standards on the basis of which the mandatory checks are carried out. It is also intended to strengthen the public oversight of the auditors, accountants and audit firms in order to detect, prevent and prevent infringements of the applicable rules in the context of the provision of audit services by auditors, accountants and audit firms. The aim, of course, is to combat corruption and introduce the mechanisms under which the sworn accountants and companies carrying out the preparation and auditing of the balance sheets will be checked. Among other things, the regulation lays down rules of direct application, but on some points it enables Member States to make national choices. The spirit of the bill is clear and it seems to be adopted by the majority of the parties. In addition, as mentioned in the rapporteurs’ positions, it is important to strengthen the public oversight of auditors, accountants and audit firms with the independence of the public oversight authorities in the Union and to confer on them appropriate responsibilities, including the other powers to carry out investigations and sanctions, in order to prevent, prevent and prevent infringements by sworn auditors, accountants and audit firms. As far as the amendments are concerned, I should like to refer to the Ministry of Education number 897/132, which allows students to look at the winter six-month period of the current academic year 2016-2017 in all the courses they are required, regardless of whether they are taught in winter or spring semester, thus facilitating the completion of their studies and the acquisition of their diplomas. The regulation is important, as it concerns thousands of undergraduate students, who are given the opportunity to complete their studies, and their families, who are charged with related expenses - rents and other living costs - whether they are subject to expensive travel. So let us allow our students to complete their studies. Here, Minister, I would like your attention a little. In the explanatory statement, if we go to the amendment, the one I have in my hands, mentions in parentheses of 'dairy and winter'. If we go here and read the amendment, it says that they should be examined in the winter six-month period of the current academic year and so on. Here, because we are talking about winter and spring, we should add 'the winter and the spring semester'.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u224	It's not our ministry's.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u225	Good. I'll show it to you later, I'll finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u226	It's not the Treasury.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u227	Yeah, I don't disagree. But we must correct it here, because we are making a reference to the explanatory statement.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u228	I can't do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u229	I say to you that the explanatory statement is clear. Let me read it to you. It reads: "The provision gives the opportunity for the academic year 2016-2017 for students at the IEOs to be examined in lessons of both six months of study (spring-winter). " [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Going now to the amendment - a little tolerability, please, Mr President - it says 'the students who completed the normal course, which is equal to the minimum number necessary for the award of the degree of study for six months, according to the indicative curriculum, have the opportunity to examine the winter six months of the current academic year 2016-2017 at all the courses they are required, regardless of whether they are taught in winter or spring semesters'. So, where it says 'winter semester period', we must add this. Okay? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u230	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u231	Yes, Mrs. Undersecretary.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u232	It is an amendment by the Ministry of Education, and Mr Loverdos will also be able to help us, since he has had the experience of the Ministry of Education. I think that the amendment, as it says, is correct, because it is now the winter semester. It's just that the lessons that will be given in February can be one of the previous, winter and spring lessons, any lessons and the examinations in the winter semester. I don't think there's any need for improvement.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u233	Madam Minister, I do not disagree. As the explanatory statement clearly states, I am making this proposal so that there is no shadow at all. I mean, adding that, I think...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u234	Don't do that, Minister. Ask Mr. Gabroglou. It's a good layout.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u235	I can ask Mr. Gabroglou. But I think it's covered. That's what Mr. Loverdos agrees with.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u236	Deal. I made a suggestion. I shall therefore conclude in less than a minute, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the government is also making necessary arrangements to modernise the public sector. The strengthening of the public oversight of the auditors, accountants and companies and the establishment of the independence of the Committee on Accounting Standardisation and Control as a public supervisory authority shall aim to: strengthen their independence and objectivity in the performance of their duties and achieve better results in terms of transparency and protection for investors and the investment environment. For these reasons, the Independent Greeks support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u237	Thank you, Mr. Lazarides. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how it operates, forty students and students and two educational attendants from the 4th High School Drama (first Chamber). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Christos Mandas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u238	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to say clearly that those who have been or are planning to become, who want to exclude from knowledge these oppressed children from wars and poverty, are not going to pass. In these people, who have deep engraved fascism and Nazism, we are in no way going to allow such practices to prevail. Refugees will go to school, as all the children of the world deserve to go to school and have access to knowledge, and the student’s answer in an announcement from the school itself puts things in place. [[Applause]] I will not deal in particular with the bill, but I think there is a more general convergence, beyond the incomprehensible ones - I would use this mild term - reactions of the Officerate and other colleagues have pointed them out from different sides of this House. I think it is a bill, which obviously gives greater weapons, more serious tools, public control and supervision, which is why it is incorporating a directive and I think it also finds the response from many of Parliament's wings. You will allow me to address two further issues of current events, which are of interest and have been commented on by other colleagues. First of all, ladies and gentlemen, I think we should agree in this Chamber when we talk about the evidence, within this very difficult reality experienced by the citizens of this country, by the people of this country, and we should be able to have a basis for serious political confrontation. I am not saying that sometimes we too do not exaggerate, but there is evidence of any doubt that I think we are in a difficult situation, of course, in a critical turning point, but there is clear evidence that our country can come out of this difficult cloak that has been whipping it all these years, with society standing up. I'm not going to make any references, just one more. The Minister also said concrete evidence to substantiate this perception. Because too many times it is said that overcoming the target is virtual, that these figures are not applicable, I would like to read to you - and to have a serious debate, if you like - the answer by Francis Kouddakis, Secretary-General for Budget Policy, in relation to this issue. In reply to the argument that the overrun of the target is virtual, due to the overdue debts and unpaid tax liabilities of the citizens, it says: ‘The dues are also integrated into the financial result, since the latter is reflected on a given basis, i.e. it includes changes in liabilities to third parties, such as due liabilities to private individuals. As regards the unpaid tax debts of individuals, they shall have absolutely no impact on the surplus or on the budget deficit.’; That is the reality, ladies and gentlemen, and I think we are going to a very difficult negotiation. They're in front of us in critical days. A powerful weapon that we have as a country - I would say - is the financial result that we have for 2016 as well. We have to use this the way we have to use it. In view of the fact that there is a great deal of discussion about the government's retreats, about the government's commitments, about the invasion of red lines and too much else, we must bear in mind that in this Europe, which must of course be changed and must go away from the austerity point of view, apart from the countries which are in a programme, that is to say, the Memorandum, there is the Financial Pact. The Financial Pact - and, if I am mistaken, correct me - imposes specific measures and procedures which deal with both the level of primary surpluses which also have countries outside the programme, which are close to 2%, perhaps a little higher. It also includes correction measures when targets are not met. We all know that very well and, in particular, colleagues who have European experience. What the Greek Government has clearly said is that we have captured the objectives of the programme. The problem is no longer technical. It is a question that is now at a political solution level. It is a problem to which, in my opinion, the whole country with one voice must say that in the name of any differences, for example, between the International Monetary Fund or the German side, our country cannot be punished once again. Our country at the moment has the potential to follow a path - the government and the Minister of Finance has described it too many times - so that it can enter the first quarter of 2017 into quantitative relaxation and give a strong signal so that the country's economic and social life can actually be brought into normality, so that investment can come and there can be a clean corridor from there and beyond. This is a realistic objective, in my opinion, that is a possible objective and I hope and really hope that in the next few days Europe will not give a different signal of one more punishment, but move - because it is agitated in 2017, we all understand that from the election of Trump and then from the rise of right-wing structures at the European level - all together. All the progressive forces - there is no doubt at European level that we will face these major challenges that are before us and certainly need to overthrow this model that has been followed so far and which dogmatically insists on the harsh and one-sided austerity, which brings these results that we all know are now at European level, apart from the countries like our own, which is in an even more difficult position, since it is in a memorandum. The last thing I would like to comment on, ladies and gentlemen, is this whole debate that is taking place in relation to the media, with a culmination I would say the latest developments in the Doll. In fact, the grace of the newspaper caught me personally, after watching how I sit and what newspapers I read "discover" - and commentes today - that I put up, says, "The NEWs", that I replaced - rather - the party newspapers that are usually on the SYRIZA benches, with our new love, Doll! I would therefore like to inform the people who write these comments - in the 'Micropolitical' column - that I am used to bringing packages of newspapers and try to be informed from all sides. I'll keep doing that anyway. This does not mean much more, of course, no special love or special disobedience to what is written in the daily press. Only what is happening do I think goes beyond this comment and the personal remark that is being made about me. I would like to close with these two words. I think that some political forces - I am not referring to persons - are of course disturbing them - because the core there lies - is the fact that it is the rule of the country that they used to be called "swampers". Since the French Revolution, these are the conditions. So they can't dig that. They cannot understand that a man who has pearls in journalism and who may be left can take on an administrative responsibility, with his other colleagues' invitation, in the journalistic band where he worked and cannot be called Mulopoulos, while if he was called - let us say - Burn, if he was called Michelakis, if he was called otherwise, he would not run anything. That's what this is about. In other words, this is a proprietary concept at all levels, in the state, in the media, in order not to infiltrate anything that can infect this famous harmonious harmony established as a status over the years of postmopolitanism. Ladies and gentlemen, I am interested in 'these' and 'the same' is that the political forces think they should be clearly placed on the proposal which the Prime Minister said yesterday. Let us take an initiative together, despite our differences - because it is not just one of the bombs that broke down there, there are others that are very close to us - so that at this level we can create a framework in which we can - without things under the table, everything is in the light - keep newspapers running, keep pluralism, keep people on working, not lose any more jobs, because there have already been too much lost in the media sector. That is what this is about and let us leave the rest of the debate and let us go to the essentials. Here we go. I personally take the first reactions to them, but I think there will be second and third thoughts and I really hope that we will come to that in a context. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u239	Thank you, Mr. Mada, SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative. We are moving on to the last parliamentary representative, Mr Anastasios Megaloumustakas. Then I would like to ask, if there are no special things to be said in the rapporteurs' speeches, that we proceed to the Minister and to the vote. Anyone who wants the floor, of course, will not be deprived of it. For two, three minutes you'll be able to talk. Mr. Big-fashioned, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u240	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would particularly like to address the amendments which have been tabled, since the main bill has been placed in the committees and today in the House by our rapporteur. This is a European directive which we cannot object to, and what we felt was sufficiently expressed. But again, you are bringing in a directive not in its time. Unfortunately, we see that there is no plan, and the sloppyness is evident in all your policies. This is also apparent from the amendments, which are not many today, in relation to other times that you have brought fifteen and sixteen. It's only eight. However, of the eight amendments, the four come to amend laws that were adopted last year, in 2016. A month ago we still had 2016. We will be placing ourselves on them and tell you what our objections are and what we agree with. In Amendment 891/126, we will be positive, as it regulates the question of registration of insurance intermediaries and, in particular, of tax information. So the situation is a little easier, and we cannot be negative about that. In Amendment 892/127 we are also positive, but you once again show that you do not have proper planning. You come and ask for extensions of a month, two months for vulnerable groups. Why? Can't you predict it from the beginning? In 2016, a relevant law was passed and we all said that they were co-financed by Europe. We as a state don't know what we're going to do for the poor. In the next amendment with number 893/128 we are negative - our speaker, Mr Saridis, mentioned in greater detail, since you did not clearly explain to us, you did not give any clear answers to the questions that were raised, on the issues of arbitration. Are we losing national sovereignty? Should all the issues be settled otherwise with the original contract? We will certainly not vote in favour of this amendment. Let us go to another amendment, which we will be voting in favour, but we will raise our objections, on 894/129, to which you grant an area of the Ministry, and you are right to do so. However, it is stated that you can intervene in the forest environment, always with the approval of the Forest Service. We'll be here to check if there's any of this. We will also be voting in favour of this amendment. However, this is not the right way, as I said before, to legislate. I now move on to Amendment No 895/130, which we shall vote in favour, as it is a typical matter. You're asking for an extension to bring the hidden back with the regime you're asking for. There's no way. You haven't captured your targets for the first time, and we don't think you're going to get them now. I wish! But, I think our proposal, to force those who have money out to turn it back with commitments to invest in Greece, would be more profitable for our real economy. I am now going to Amendment No 897/132, which concerns the Ministry of Education and which we agree with. In fact, we would like to add that in these difficult times of the memorials, which many students have to work and attend their lessons from a distance, because they cannot rent a house in the area where they are the university or their TEI and their financial situation is very difficult, there should be consultation and discussion with the universities and the Minister of State, so that in such situations - as phenomena occur elsewhere - the needs of the students can be served. We move on to the parliamentary amendments, namely 898/133, which deal with issues relating to the OGA and which we shall vote in favour of, as it solves problems of many of our fellow citizens. I am closing with Amendment No 899/134, which we will also be voting for, as it gives office to the Chamber of Economic Affairs, because we cannot be opposed to it, since it is a wider body for the economy of our country. I am usually not talking about the issue bill that is being discussed, but I cannot comment on what the Minister said earlier, which spoke about development. In fact, when he hears talking in this Chamber about development - not only now, but also in previous periods - he feels that we are mocking him. Did you talk about growth and the fight against unemployment with what labour regimes? Four and two hours? You said that the citizens' purchasing capacity was up. Where did you see that? Your receipts may have gone up, because you raised the taxes, but the citizens' purchasing capacity certainly did not go up. People feel we're mocking him when he hears things like that. No Greek in 2016 said that growth came. Even those whose finances may have risen, be one of the lucky or forefathers, as you say, do not see growth around them. I don't see growth either. Also when you talk about fighting corruption, people feel that we are mocking it again. How will we combat corruption, when we see and hear ministers say that 'we don't care who gets the channels, will those who give more' or what happened with Doll? Before we had DOL with Psychair, and now we have Mullopulus. So, do you have to manipulate everything inside of someone? Of course, a solution must be found so that all families eating bread from this group will not stay on the street. However, another option should be made. You know it, too, the whole world knows it. We really get tired of people when we ask for self-evident things and talk about things that no one else sees, except some in here. I hope that we will overthrow the climate and bring back hope to the Greeks, and that will only happen if we do what Mr Amyras said earlier, and we support the first day that we entered here, namely, working together, taking away the political and the small-party benefits, not taking into account the political costs, but coming together, in order to get the country out of this crisis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u241	Thank you, Mr. Megalustakas. Please, if there is anything essential for special speakers to say in their dentistry, to say so soon. Mr. Giannakides, do you want the floor for a second?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u242	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u243	Mr. Besyropoulou, do you?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u244	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u245	Mr. Carachosta, how about you?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u246	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u247	I think he had lifted his hand before Mr. Koutsoukos asked for the floor to say something. Soon enough, though, please. Here, Mr. Kutsuko, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u248	First of all, we need to put ourselves on the amendments and then within this short year I want to make a comment on the bill. I was expecting the State Secretary of State to place himself on the request of the Democratic Incorporation and the bodies that we called on the committee, in relation to the limits of control, which, as I said in my position, has to do with the rules of healthy competition, transparency in the economy and in the public interest. The State Secretary for Finance is in no position here today to tell us what he will do with the thousands of companies who will not have a certificate from the sworn accountants in relation to their tax obligations. We know the weakness of the Ministry's control mechanisms. These businesses will be in fact left without any control ever. We're waiting for an answer. Are the pressures that the government is taking and what interests, in any case, are they exerting them? My second comment on the bill is the obsession of the New Democracy towards the CNEL, which is a professional body guaranteed by Constantine Mitsotakis in 1992, and we give him certain responsibilities under the law. This is not contrary, and above all it has to do with our own legislative capacity. I now come to the amendments, Mr President. Mr Loverdos was put forward for the amendment concerning the examination, Mr Kegeroglu, on the amendment on the extension of poverty programmes, criticizing that the government is not ready. I would like to place myself on the amendment - Mrs Papanatsiou's competence - which gives an extension of the possibility for taxpayers to apply for the favourable arrangements that we voted on from 22 January to 7 February. Does the government consider that what I said would become incomplete, given that it is addressed to those who are in the tax fraud, will pay off with an extension of fifteen days? I think he's actually doing a hole in the water. In any case, we shall vote on it, but I do not understand the feasibility. Also, for the amendment on the resolution of issues between concessionaires and public users at regional airports, Mr Karras made very reasonable comments on the public interest. However, in any case, it seems here that everything has been blocked and that the government and Mr Chakalotos are making an effort to unblock them. So with the reservations we have to vote on them. There is the amendment of the sixty members of the SYRIZA, which refers to the issues of the OGA. These are, ladies and gentlemen, prisoners from the government's legislative initiative, because the OGA was abolished. That's where things come from. It should be here - it is not just a formal matter of the responsibility of the Minister, as Mr Loverdos mentioned, but it is also essential - that the Minister responsible should explain to us who is being facilitated and who may be caught and what costs this has for the insurance system. In any case, because it seems that it is going to solve a real problem, we will also vote for this amendment, as will the corresponding members of the SYRIZA for the possibility of the Chamber of Finance having representation in the Committee on Accounting. Mr President, I would like to end by making the amendment that the Ministry of Finance, in use, grants the scope for camping to the officials of the Ministry of Finance. It was your obligation, as you yourself cancelled the concession by ownership last year and you had to pay back the price. It is a compromise which will enable the UCLAF to carry out this work for the next few years, without obliging the Government to repay the price for the reasons it has cancelled the concession. That is what I wanted to say, Mr President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u249	Thank you, Mr. Kutsuko. Mr. Vardalis has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u250	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to begin with an issue on which there has been a lot of discussion in plenary on the limits of compulsory controls. Listen, ladies and gentlemen. What is the purpose of the directive and of the bill we are discussing? Should the individual articles of this bill and this directive serve the main purpose of the bill? In our view, they are obviously serving them. The main objective of the bill is, then, how investors will be helped, to know where they will go to touch their funds, where they will go to invest. What are you talking about? Are investors generally and unreasonably interested in all enterprises? Which companies are more competitive? The little or the big ones?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u251	Whoever. It could be a small business, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u252	Who is it? In capitalism the big fish eats the little, Mr. Loverde.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u253	If you take it that way.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u254	So we're looking at the trend. Of course, there may be exceptions, but we are seeing the trend. So the one who wants to secure his profits is interested in the big business. This is more competitive today in this economy, as it is designed, in what we call a capitalist economy, which is designed on the basis of profitability. So this particular article with the limits comes to serve precisely that purpose, the interests of large monopolistic groups, the interests of large business groups. That's the truth. The second thing I want to say is this. I understand that, when you agree with this objective that I mentioned before, you are looking to find individual differences, secondary or even issues that have nothing to do with the bill, to say something, to show that you have a different policy than that of the government. So far I say that things can be understood, but you cannot understand how, taking into account, for example, the question of delaying the transposition of this directive, you can conclude that the government is anti-European. That sounded in here. To be anti-European, so it's against the free market, against the free economy, so they're Marxists, they want stateism and they go by saying. Hey, you must have a lot of imagination! That's what this is about. Why? In order to hide the substance, both with the directive and with the aim and everything, with the bill, as the directive comes to be adopted, we agree. That's the truth. And where else do we agree? We agree on the development path, we agree that we must create all the conditions for profitability, otherwise there is no growth. So you agree on all this. You do everything. You have a problem, of course. While you're trying and creating all the prerequisites, this rheumatism machine doesn't go forward, it doesn't go forward. That's your problem. That is why you will continue to take anti-grass measures, measures against the people and before 2018 and after 2018. Do not have any anxiety if it will pass and when it will pass, if the second assessment is delayed or delayed, whether the IMF will remain or not. The only thing for sure is that the anti-grass measures in any case, with each scenario, will stay and you will continue to take them. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u255	Thank you, Mr. Vardalis. Mr. Georgiadis, will you be seconded?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u256	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u257	Mr. Danielle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u258	Thank you, Mr President. I would just like to make a comment on the parliamentary amendment for those insured in the OGA. We recognise that there is a problem in a number of OGA members who have been caught in their transition to the new regime in the Single Social Security Agency, but we do not think it is the right way to resolve this existing problem. It is not a way to have a parliamentary amendment on a serious existing issue. We do not know how many people we are talking about, we do not know what the burden this will bear on the new fund, we do not know how it will be, so it is in no way appropriate to legislate on a solution to an existing problem. This is a classic case where a ministerial amendment should come to resolve this issue. We want to help resolve this, but we cannot vote for an amendment of this kind in this way of resolving a major problem, which is not dealt with with with such a sloppy way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u259	Thank you, Mr. Dannelly. I think we can give the floor to the Minister to give the answers and move on to the vote. Madam Minister, we are listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u260	First of all, I would like to mention, although I did not intend to do so, but because it was referred to by the Parliamentary Representative of the Union of Centres, the media and the DOL. Something was heard from all sides in relation to the media and specifically the DOL. I will say again that we should all accept the Prime Minister's proposal, have a debate in this House, so that we can all agree on the institutional framework and how to solve all these problems. It's neither Doll now nor MEGA before. I think that the problems of our time are such that one after another will create such issues. We must deal with them together and I call on all the political forces to accept the Prime Minister's proposal to move forward in the institutional framework. With regard to some issues of political stability, in today's publication DIE WELT referred to Greece as "the politically stable Greece, one of the great winners of the tourist season 2017". In fact, I think that our country is politically stable, that has not been done on its own, but it has taken place after the policy of the current SYRIZA - ANEL government. With regard to the part of the elections, which has been heard by various groups in plenary today, I have this to say. We really don't hide from anyone. We go to our villages, we go to our towns, we talk to the world and we accept problems, they throw us and notices when we need one time, but we don't hide, we don't go to another city, instead of going to the one that was originally scheduled to go. We see them, they see us, we are with them, we continue to be close to them, we know that we cannot solve all their problems, and they know it, but they see our efforts and that is what they applaud and tell us "do not go to elections, we do not want elections". That is what is being transferred from all the ministers and from all the Members to the government today. With regard to a number of questions raised, Mr Kutsuko, it is really a long way from me that I have not answered you about the limits of control. As far as control thresholds are concerned, because we discussed this with the Ministry and with Minister Tsakalotos, there was an economic question from the bodies - who did not come to the hearing of the bodies - that they cannot deal with it and that the WEU put it back to the hearing of bodies again. That is why we have decided to look at it later, after having consulted the stakeholders and the CNEL and the accountants and the producer bodies, so that it is something more coordinated, rather than moving on now. With regard to Amendment 895, which is to be extended for 8 February, there was no intention of extending it. Just the clarification circular by the Independent Public Revenue Authority was published the day before yesterday, so there are too many issues. There were some ambiguities. The interested parties were unable to make tax statements, and that is why, since the circular was published, there was an extension so that we could submit their statements. Let's hope you're not the master of the bad news you've predicted. With regard to the other issue raised by Mr Loverdos, in relation to the powers of the State Secretary, in the Leaflet of the Official Journal of the Government on 15 November, 3696, it says in Article 2: The powers laid down in Article 1 shall include: firstly, the powers of Parliament and, secondly, the legislative initiative, which shall only be carried out jointly with the Minister. Mr Loverde, I am not a lawyer, but you, who are, at least you understand that accepting an amendment is within Parliament's competences at least.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u261	It's in the law. That's another one.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u262	To accept, not to testify. To testify is not. Admittedly, it is in parliamentary competences. At least we have this interpretation from Parliament's services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u263	Thank you. I have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights has forwarded to Parliament under Rule 86 of the Constitution and Law 3126/2003 "Prime responsibility of the Ministers", as applicable: First, on 25-10-2016, a criminal case for the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Paul Pavlakis, and on 17-1-2017, a criminal case for the former Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, Mr. Andreas Loverdos. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles, amendments and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance is finalised: ‘Obligation to check the annual and consolidated financial statements, public supervision over the audit work and other provisions’. Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u264	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u265	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u266	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u267	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u268	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u269	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u270	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u271	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u272	Consequently, the draft of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Compulsory audit of the annual and consolidated financial statements, public supervision over the audit work and other provisions’ was accepted in principle by a majority. We are entering the vote on articles and amendments and they will be voted on separately. Does this House accept Rule 1 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u273	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u274	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u275	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u276	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u277	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u278	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u279	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u280	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u281	Article 1 was therefore accepted as being majority. Can Article 2, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u282	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u283	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u284	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u285	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u286	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u287	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u288	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u289	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u290	Article 2 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Can Article 3, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u291	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u292	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u293	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u294	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u295	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u296	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u297	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u298	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u299	Article 3 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 4 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u300	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u301	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u302	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u303	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u304	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u305	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u306	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u307	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u308	Article 4 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 5 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u309	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u310	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u311	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u312	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u313	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u314	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u315	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u316	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u317	Article 5 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 6 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u318	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u319	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u320	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u321	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u322	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u323	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u324	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u325	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u326	Article 6 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 7 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u327	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u328	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u329	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u330	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u331	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u332	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u333	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u334	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u335	Article 7 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Article 8 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u336	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u337	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u338	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u339	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u340	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u341	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u342	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u343	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u344	Article 8 was therefore accepted as a majority. Can Article 9, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u345	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u346	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u347	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u348	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u349	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u350	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u351	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u352	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u353	Article 9 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 10 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u354	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u355	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u356	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u357	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u358	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u359	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u360	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u361	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u362	Article 10 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 11 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u363	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u364	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u365	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u366	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u367	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u368	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u369	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u370	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u371	Article 11 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 12 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u372	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u373	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u374	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u375	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u376	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u377	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u378	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u379	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u380	Article 12 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 13 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u381	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u382	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u383	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u384	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u385	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u386	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u387	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u388	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u389	Article 13 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 14 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u390	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u391	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u392	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u393	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u394	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u395	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u396	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u397	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u398	Article 14 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, forty-seven students and students and three educational sessions from the second section of the Drama High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Will Rule 15 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u399	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u400	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u401	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u402	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u403	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u404	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u405	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u406	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u407	Article 15 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 16 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u408	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u409	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u410	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u411	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u412	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u413	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u414	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u415	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u416	Article 16 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 17 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u417	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u418	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u419	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u420	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u421	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u422	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u423	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u424	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u425	Article 17 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 18 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u426	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u427	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u428	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u429	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u430	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u431	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u432	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u433	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u434	Article 18 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 19 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u435	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u436	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u437	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u438	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u439	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u440	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u441	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u442	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u443	Article 19 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 20 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u444	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u445	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u446	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u447	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u448	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u449	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u450	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u451	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u452	Article 20 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 21 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u453	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u454	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u455	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u456	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u457	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u458	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u459	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u460	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u461	Article 21 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 22 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u462	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u463	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u464	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u465	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u466	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u467	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u468	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u469	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u470	Article 22 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 23 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u471	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u472	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u473	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u474	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u475	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u476	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u477	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u478	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u479	Article 23 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 24 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u480	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u481	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u482	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u483	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u484	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u485	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u486	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u487	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u488	Article 24 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 25 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u489	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u490	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u491	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u492	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u493	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u494	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u495	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u496	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u497	Article 25 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 26 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u498	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u499	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u500	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u501	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u502	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u503	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u504	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u505	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u506	Article 26 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 27, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u507	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u508	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u509	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u510	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u511	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u512	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u513	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u514	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u515	Article 27 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 28 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u516	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u517	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u518	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u519	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u520	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u521	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u522	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u523	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u524	Article 28 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 29 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u525	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u526	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u527	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u528	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u529	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u530	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u531	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u532	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u533	Article 29 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 30 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u534	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u535	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u536	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u537	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u538	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u539	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u540	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u541	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u542	Article 30 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 31 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u543	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u544	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u545	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u546	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u547	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u548	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u549	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u550	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u551	Article 31 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 32 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u552	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u553	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u554	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u555	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u556	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u557	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u558	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u559	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u560	Article 32 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 33 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u561	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u562	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u563	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u564	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u565	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u566	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u567	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u568	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u569	Article 33 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 34 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u570	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u571	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u572	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u573	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u574	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u575	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u576	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u577	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u578	Article 34 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 35 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u579	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u580	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u581	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u582	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u583	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u584	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u585	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u586	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u587	Article 35 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 36 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u588	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u589	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u590	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u591	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u592	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u593	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u594	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u595	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u596	Article 36 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 37 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u597	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u598	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u599	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u600	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u601	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u602	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u603	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u604	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u605	Article 37 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 38 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u606	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u607	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u608	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u609	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u610	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u611	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u612	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u613	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u614	Article 38 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 39 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u615	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u616	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u617	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u618	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u619	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u620	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u621	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u622	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u623	Article 39 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 40 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u624	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u625	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u626	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u627	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u628	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u629	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u630	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u631	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u632	Article 40 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 41 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u633	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u634	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u635	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u636	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u637	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u638	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u639	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u640	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u641	Article 41 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 42 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u642	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u643	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u644	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u645	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u646	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u647	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u648	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u649	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u650	Article 42 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 43 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u651	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u652	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u653	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u654	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u655	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u656	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u657	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u658	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u659	Article 43 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 44 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u660	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u661	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u662	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u663	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u664	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u665	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u666	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u667	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u668	Article 44 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Does this House accept Rule 45 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u669	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u670	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u671	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u672	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u673	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u674	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u675	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u676	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u677	Article 45 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 46 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u678	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u679	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u680	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u681	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u682	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u683	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u684	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u685	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u686	Article 46 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 47 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u687	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u688	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u689	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u690	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u691	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u692	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u693	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u694	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u695	Article 47 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 48 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u696	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u697	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u698	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u699	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u700	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u701	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u702	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u703	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u704	Article 48 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does the House agree to Rule 49, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u705	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u706	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u707	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u708	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u709	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u710	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u711	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u712	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u713	Article 49 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 50 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u714	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u715	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u716	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u717	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u718	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u719	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u720	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u721	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u722	Article 50 has therefore been accepted as a majority. Will Rule 51 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u723	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u724	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u725	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u726	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u727	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u728	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u729	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u730	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u731	Article 51 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 52 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u732	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u733	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u734	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u735	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u736	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u737	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u738	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u739	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u740	Article 52 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 53 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u741	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u742	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u743	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u744	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u745	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u746	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u747	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u748	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u749	Article 53 was therefore accepted as a majority. We are entering the vote on the amendments. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 891 and a specific 126 in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u750	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u751	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u752	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u753	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u754	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u755	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u756	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u757	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u758	The amendment, by a general number 891 and a special 126, was therefore accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. We are entering the vote on the amendment with a general number of 892 and a specialist of 127.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u759	Mr President, I would like to make one or two amendments because I did not ask for the floor on the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u760	But now we are voting. Just make one comment.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u761	Just a comment. Although we are positive in anti-poverty programmes, we say 'no' to legalise illegal contracts in services without the submission of a guarantee letter of good execution, because otherwise there is a question of transparency and this provision is transformed into a laundry for the legalisation of illegal contracts. That is why we say 'no'.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u762	Very good. Is the amendment acceptable under a general number of 892 and a specialist of 127 in its own right?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u763	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u764	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u765	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u766	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u767	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u768	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u769	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u770	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u771	Therefore, the amendment under general number 892 and a special 127 were accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. We are entering the vote on the amendment with a general number of 893 and a specialist of 128.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u772	One clarification, Mr President, not to mention the others. While we want to vote on some of the amendments that we agree on in substance, we do not do so because there is a lack of legitimacy in their wording and there are many things that are hidden. That is what we call 'the present'. I'm saying this so I won't get busy again.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u773	Yes, sir. Very good. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 893 and a special number of 128?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u774	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u775	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u776	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u777	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u778	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u779	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u780	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u781	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u782	Therefore, the amendment under a general number 893 and a special 128 were accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 894 and a specific 129 in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u783	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u784	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u785	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u786	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u787	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u788	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u789	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u790	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u791	The amendment, by a general number 894 and a special 129, was therefore accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number 895 and a special number of 130 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u792	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u793	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u794	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u795	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u796	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u797	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u798	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u799	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u800	Therefore, the amendment of a general number 895 and a specialist of 130 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 897 and a special number 132 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u801	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u802	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u803	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u804	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u805	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u806	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u807	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u808	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u809	The amendment, by a general number 897 and a special 132, was therefore accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number of 898 and a specialist of 133 in its own right?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u810	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u811	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u812	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u813	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u814	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u815	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u816	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u817	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u818	Therefore, the amendment of a general number 898 and a specialist of 133 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number of 899 and a special number of 134 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u819	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u820	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u821	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u822	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u823	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u824	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u825	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u826	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u827	Therefore, the amendment of a general number 899 and a specialist of 134 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. We are entering the vote of the nominee. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u828	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u829	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u830	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u831	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u832	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u833	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u834	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u835	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u836	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Compulsory audit of the annual and consolidated financial statements, public supervision over the audit work and other provisions’ was accepted in principle and in the articles. We move on to the vote of the bill and all of it. Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u837	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u838	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u839	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u840	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u841	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u842	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u843	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u844	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u845	The bill was accepted by a majority in total. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Compulsory audit of the annual and consolidated financial statements, public supervision over the audit work and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate on the principle of Articles and all of the following:
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u846	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u847	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minutes of Thursday 10 November 2016 (night), Friday 18 November 2016, Monday 21 November 2016, Wednesday 23 November 2016 (morning), Wednesday 23 November 2016 (night), Thursday 24 November 2016 (morning), Thursday 24 November 2016 (morning) and Friday 25 November 2016 have been distributed and the House is asked if it validates them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u848	The minutes of Thursday 10 November 2016 (in the afternoon), Friday 18 November 2016, Monday 21 November 2016, Wednesday 23 November 2016 (in the morning), Wednesday 23 November 2016 (in the evening), Thursday 24 November 2016 (in the morning), Thursday 24 November 2016 (in the afternoon) and Friday 25 November 2016 were validated. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-19-S1-commons.u849	With the consent of the House at 16.25 minutes the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday, January 20, 2017, at 10 a.m., on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny: a debate on topical questions.
