ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-11-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 10-5-2017, the minutes of its meeting of Wednesday 10 May 2017 were confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau, with regard to the vote on the entire draft law: "Definition of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of Norway on cooperation in the field of defence equipment, systems and services".]] I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent question issue of Friday 12 May 2017. A. PERSONS First-cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 820/9-9-5-2017 by MP Aitolokarnania of the Radical Left Coalition, Maria Triantafyllou, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the upgrading and utilization of the archaeological cultural product of the Prefecture of Itolokarnania. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 805/8-5-2017 by Congressman Athens of New Democracy K. Spyridonos-Adonidos Georgiadis to the Minister of Finance concerning the meeting of the Prime Minister with representatives of the investment bank ‘Rothschild’. 3. H under number 821/9-5-2017, a topical question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Kingdom Kegeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject of "in despair of thousands of farmers who have rented land with rights (form 6) two years now they have not received any aid". 4. The Question by MP I of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Ioannis Delis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs about the problems of the operation of Alexandria TEI of Thessaloniki. 5. The 810/8-5-2017 topical question by MP 2 Athens of Potamio Mr. Georgios Amyras to the Minister of Culture and Sport, concerning the hours of museums and archaeological sites during the summer season. B. PERSONS Second-cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 806/8-5-2017 by MP Evros of the New Democracy, Anastasios Prussias Prussias, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the destruction of the fishing fields of the Thracian Sea by Turkish fishermen. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. H under number 809/8-5-2017, a topical question by the Independent MEP, Georgios Georgios - Dimitrios Karras, to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the need to integrate, with the objectives of reducing problematic loans for small businesses. 3. The question by No. 701/6-4-2017 of the Central Association of Theodoras, Mr. Theodoros Megalonou, Minister for Health, concerning the closure of the local hospitals "House of Haravais" from the 2nd Health Area of Attica. 4. H under No 700/6-6-4-2017 a topical question by the Member of Parliament, Mr Andreas Katsaniotis, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the delay in the procedures for the application of Subsection 6.1 ‘Installation of Young Farmers’. 5. Question No 676/31-3-2017 by Evia MP of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nicholas Michou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on 'the retention of part of the OPEKEPE grants due to a failure to pay a contribution to the General Organisation for Improvements (OECD)'. 6. The Question No 648/24-3-2017 by Evia MP of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Nicholas Michou to the Minister of Health on the "strengthening impedimental fulfillment of a covenant which provides for the establishment of an oncological clinic in Chalkida". 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The question by No. 402/27-1-2017, by MEP I Thessaloniki, Mr.Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister of Health, concerning the reduction of the cost of diagnostic tests for breast cancer. 8. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy about the need to drastically reduce excessive charges for consumers by PPC. 9. The question asked by MP Achaias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Theodoros Papatheodorou to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport about delays in the implementation of the project to extend the suburban between Patras and western Achaia. 10. The Question No 727/11-4-2017 by Independent MEP Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs about the announcement by ELME Thessaloniki of the broadcast of the “Survivor” television game. 11. The Question No 367/20-1-2017 by Evia MP of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nicholas Michou to the Minister of the Interior, on the "unacceptable displacement of thirty-six thousand seven hundred ninety-sixteen Greek children from day-care stations". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by No 446/18-10-2016 by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassiliou Kegeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the serious problems faced by farmers. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question and application under number 3354/274/10/10/2017 by MP B' Athens, Nea Spyridonos - Adonidos Georgiadis to the Minister of Health, on "on the arrest of a foreign dentist with the category of money laundering in the structure of Amygdaleza". Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS The first question will be discussed under number 802/8-5-2017, the second question of the Attica MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Panagiotis (Panou) Skouriakou to the Minister for Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, on the major delays in the licensing competition for television stations. The Minister for Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information will answer Mr. Nikolaos Pappas. Mr. Darkness, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-11-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the topical question has to do with the major delays in the licensing competition for television stations. The Greek Parliament at the initiative of the Government passed Law 439/2015 on the licensing of providers of free-of-air digital television broadcasts. During the implementation of the law, the Secretariat-General for Information on this licence was appointed. Shortly before the competition, the owners of the existing television stations appealed to the Council of State against the law. The Plenary Assembly of the Council of State decided that the law is in the context of the Constitution, but the competitive process must be carried out by the National Broadcasting Council, which was not created with due regard for counter-population. Following that decision by the Council of State, the Plenary Assembly of Greeks, the Board of Directors, the National Broadcasting Council, was established. Since then, six months have passed, but the competition has not taken place. Intensifiedly, the Greek society monitors repatriations used as justifications for delaying the competitive process of members of the administration of the National Broadcasting Council through statements or problems faced with their pensions - a problem solved by an amendment adopted in Parliament - or that there are no necessary logistical infrastructures and staff to carry out the competition, according to the statements made by the Vice-President of the Council in a Sunday paper. We note that the rule of law is extended because of the non-implementation of the decisions of the Council of State. This unjustified delay results in a deficit in the reliability of information, a deficit of democracy and a deficit in public finances. In view of the above, therefore, you are asking whether you have been informed by the National Broadcasting Council of when it calculates that the obstacles will be removed in order to carry out this competition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-11-S1-commons.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-11-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. I think that you and this House are well aware - and as I have repeatedly said - that the primary task for us is to respect the Constitution. And compliance with the constitution requires that television stations are licensed, which is currently not in existence. Last January, when the decision of the Council of State was published, which, in our view, did not incomprehensibly ratify the tender which had already been carried out by the Secretariat-General of Information, included two surprises for the wars of licensing and the fans of immunity in the television scene. The first surprise was that this contested decision reiterated the fact that the status of non-authorised television stations is contrary to the Constitution. For those known, this was not a legal surprise, of course, precisely because it was a permanent position of the Council of State, which was expressed in too many opportunities and previous decisions. The second very important element in this decision was the wording that the previous composition of the National Broadcasting Council was not lawful. This wording also deserves retrospectiveness - because then too much noise had also been heard here in the Chamber and for the government and for me personally - the position and action of the Government for the reconstruction of the National Broadcasting Council and, of course, the cessation of members whose term of office had long expired. In relation to the logistics infrastructure, our Ministry has first handed over to the leadership of the National Broadcasting Council what is required so that the independent authority can conduct the competition. On the occasion of your question I would like to highlight the following: you said the contest was made by the Directorate-General for Information. One more precise wording would be that the contest was made in the building of the General Secretariat of Information. In order for this competition to take place, there were worthy members of the public administration who were not in the Secretariat-General. I would therefore like to say that there is no need to develop opportunities from the PSE itself to conduct the tender. We, in order to carry out the auction and design it, addressed to the Economic University, to the people, namely, who are studying the theory of auctions, to the teachers in the country, who are experts in the matter. We didn't go to find out about America. So we have delivered this study, we have delivered the study for the determination of the minimum starting price, we have delivered the tender instructions, as received by the participants in the tender, we have delivered the training material of the participants and, of course, we have delivered the preparatory expertise for the auctioning of terrestrial digital broadcasting licences. Secondly, we have delivered the information system, which I have also had the opportunity to repeat, which allows members of the National Broadcasting Council, wherever they may be, to have access to the broadcast television content. From his mobile phone, that is, the President and the Vice-President and all the members of the National Broadcasting Council, at any time, everywhere on the world, can receive an excerpt, for which they will probably be called, to judge whether they should carry out the sanctions and related measures. I must also point out that the members of our Ministry are in constant contact and procedures have already been launched to increase the budget of the National Broadcasting Council. As you have said, this amendment has been passed by Parliament, which allows for an increase in the remuneration of members of the National Broadcasting Council and, in short, I think that there is everything in place for this competition to take place. And if I want, by the way of the question, to send a message, it's that everything is ready, start. There can be no excuses. We did not represent mathematicians or experts in IT or experts to conduct the tender, but we contacted experts, with absolute confidence in public administration officials and scientists, who serve science, which could, say, also help to carry out the tender.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-11-S1-commons.u5	Mr. Darkness, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-11-S1-commons.u6	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Minister, I believe that the decisions of the Council of State should all be implemented and that they should not apply a card. There are no decisions that suit some and others that don't suit them. So if we respect the decisions of the Council of State, we should respect them here too. I would like to point out that I do not imagine that there is a need for a whole mechanism of permanent officials at the National Broadcasting Council, which will be involved in licensing, because this group will be very crowded and I do not know what else it could do. You quite rightly said that you addressed the Economic University, you addressed the National Committee for Telecommunications and Posts. I would like to point out that in the public sector there are too many trainees, worthy, effective and good, to use them. Let me also speak of something else. We don't have time to realize it: Does the TV scenery change? Is something wrong? We knew that so far ERT has only emanated from different channels, namely one, two, three and very clear. I say this because there was a private station, namely SKAI, on 7-5-2017, which transferred a different program from two different frequencies, from the entertainment program, Survivor, and from the frequency of the 'Action 24' television station, with the logo of both channels, to a programme of information live for the elections in France. Has there been a change that we don't know about? Can these changes happen in a way that goes without saying? Is that legal? Has the PSE been informed? Was the National Radio Board aware of such action? What's going on? Can this be the way the canals, the monitors, can transmit everyone from where they want to, without informing anyone? Unless the National Broadcasting Council was informed and licensed and that is lawful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-11-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr. Darkness. Mr. Poppa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-11-S1-commons.u8	Mr Darkness, look, in relation to the first part of the question, I would like to say nothing more than to emphasise once again that we have also addressed experts. The Economic University designed the tender, the private company, which holds the elections in Greece, the national and the others, developed the software, the members of the Telecommunications and Post Committee, who have made other tenders, contributed to the tender and were therefore not called again "to invent the wheel". They are not called "to reinvent the wheel" and the members of the National Broadcasting Council and, of course, like you, like me, and the members of the National Broadcasting Council have the disciplinary, civil and criminal responsibilities to do so if they do not respect their duties, laws and constitution. You referred to an incident involving the simultaneous transmission of a television station's programme from two channels. First of all, I would like to remind you that this television station, SKAI, "had" - let's say a little folk and simply - "historic church". What do we mean, "he had stolen a church"? He had broadcast the Panagia Celebration Service in the 15th century, intercepting the ERT signal. In fact, at that time, there were also some complacent points in the transmission, because the technicians at the station obviously did not have time to adjust the image and signal of ERT every time the TV station "SKAI". I must say, of course, that there is no right to parallel transmission of two different programmes of a television station through two different frequencies of DIGEA. And in any case, of course, this action is not known and it cannot have been the sale of a programme, because it was relayed by the SCAI studio, live transmission and logo. Nor can this energy enter under the umbrella and the title and logic of networking, which exists in Law 4339 and was also in the previous law, the so-called Russopoulos law. Because networking is only allowed between regional stations, i.e. a regional station with a regional station can have co-operation and exchange of programmes. And, of course, I think that, in order not to chew our words, we, and I think every Greek citizen, are also waiting for the National Broadcasting Council to take action and to fulfil their responsibilities for complying with the existing legislation, which is his role in safeguarding. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-11-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We continue with the third with the number 803/8-5-2017 topical question of the second question of the Hercules of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMARK KEGEROGLOV to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, which requires the application of the one hundred twenty-dollar arrangement for all dues to the insurance funds, regardless of the entry into the extra-judicial conciliation procedures." The State Secretary for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity Mr Anastasios Petropoulos will respond. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-11-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. I think that the situation is well known for businesses, free professionals, farmers and because of overtaxation and because of recent difficulties, arising from the loss of regulation, many of whom had been integrated into a previous period. According to data from the Insurance Contributions Collection Centre, from the last quarter of 2016 to the first quarter of 2017, we had an increase, by about eleven thousand of the arrangements, that lost them, and that figure has amounted to a hundred-five thousand six hundred fifty-eight, with a total debt of 4.5 billion. We had the evolution of the law on the extrajudicial compromise, involving businesses, with debts of more than 20,000 and under specific conditions. The question of today's question is for everyone who will not be included, for whatever reason, in the extrajudicial compromise either because their debts are under 20,000 or because they are over 20,000, but do not fulfil any other conditions, whether there will be the possibility of adjusting in a similar manner, for example the number of hundreds of twenty-dollars, the debts to the insurance funds and to the ECA in this regard. This is very important, Minister. There is a ministerial decision procedure provided for by Law 4669 on the extrajudicial compromise and we want to know at what stage these ministerial decisions are being drawn up in order to enable debtors to fulfil their obligations through sustainable regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-11-S1-commons.u11	Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-11-S1-commons.u12	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Kegeroglu, if I am not mistaken, please invoke provisions and facilities for the payment of the debts from all the insured, which you have not voted on for so many years. If I'm wrong, fix me. It would be nice to vote on them. However, since you did not do so, I understand that there is a legitimate interest in the insured to be informed of the possibilities offered by our Government's law to facilitate insurance debts, even for those who do not have bankruptcy capacity. For those who are in bankruptcy, Law 4469 provides for a procedure in which these matters are dealt with. For those who are not in bankruptcy and are a large number of insured persons, but even if they were in bankruptcy and have no other liabilities - but have only the social security institutions - the option is to regulate these debts, in accordance with the individual regulations, which will be laid down in the ministerial decision to be adopted. It is provided for by the Law Ministerial Decision. We are working in this direction in a scientific way to make it possible to take advantage of this opportunity, which is interlinked with the framework that we are creating for the development of the economy, for business to be facilitated, in the face of the difficulties that exist in recent years. I have to say that cumulation of debts can only be halted by economic growth. I note that in 2008 for the EUPM was about 3.5 billion. It reached a rate of 1 billion added each year from 2010 onwards to 12 billion. We therefore need to see the question of debts in the wider context of the financial possibilities available, in order for businesses to develop. I would therefore say, on the part of your party, that, when we discuss the countermeasures next week, you should pay attention to that aspect of the provisions, which are really suitable for the aid of the economy and for the development of the economy. Therefore, you will see in the ministerial decision that we will adopt the solutions that we are proposing. They will be solutions which companies and debtors will take advantage of. I am sure of that, because they will be weighted in their measures.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-11-S1-commons.u13	Here, Mr Kegeroglu, you have the floor for your denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-11-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. It is not worth looking beyond what concerns the question, because you represent a government and a majority which, over the past period of the opposition, did exactly the opposite of what it does today. So there's no reason to sit down and say what they did. You, of course, just justify why you were not a Member of Parliament, so you will tell me that you have not done all the things that other Members have done, especially, by major anti-monetary politicians, have now become obedient to the deeds and orders of the troika, and indeed, without putting a single party or a perfect one. You force me to tell you things, in the context of parliamentary scrutiny, which could not be said. But it's the truth. And since you were not the Minister responsible for the extrajudicial compromise, I will remind you that we have tabled an integrated amendment, an improvement in the procedures provided for in the extrajudicial compromise, which we mentioned, to which we referred for the introduction of the inconsistent business account on conditions, so that businesses can operate. We also mentioned the simultaneous "fresh" of the debts to the insurance funds and the public, which is an announcement by the Prime Minister since September 2016 - only a year has passed and has not been implemented - but also procedural proposals to improve what is provided for in the institutional framework. For our part, the proposals for improvement have been tabled and this shows interest in improving a framework which we believe will give some solutions, but will not give in all cases. So, if it is not included in the extrajudicial compromise, will it be possible to make a bilateral arrangement, that is to say with an application to EKKA to regulate the debt - if it is less than EUR 20,000 in any event - for over 20,000 euros to be able to make this arrangement with the hundred twenty instalments, to proceed with the process of payment of instalments and, at the same time, to obtain the information debtor, to be able to operate as an undertaking, as an activity, as a self-employed person, as a freelance farmer, as a farmer, or in whatever category? So this is the simple question: will there be the possibility of a debt of EUR 25 000, not part of the extrajudicial compromise, for the debtor to make an application to the ECAI and regulate them in a hundred and twenty instalments? And what will be the conditions for joining it? I ask this in order to be useful to the citizens and people who experience this difficulty. That's the question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-11-S1-commons.u15	Here, Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-11-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr President. There are two cases provided for in Article 21 of the extrajudicial compromise law. According to these cases, we have from one charge of up to EUR 3 000, which can be repaid to the thirty-six instalments, and it is a debt solely to the social security institution, or to the public, or both. It is therefore foreseen, without the possibility of deletion of the surcharges and interest, for up to EUR 3 000. For any amount exceeding EUR 3 000, therefore EUR 20,000, EUR 25 000 - and as long as that is - the same provision provides for repayment in up to a hundred and twenty-monthly instalments. Therefore, Mr Kegeroglu, your question is answered by the law itself, because all these cases are foreseen. The details will be regulated by the Ministerial Decision. And these details will be facilitated to repay these debts. We will do our utmost to ensure that, first of all, we strengthen the very prospect of social security, that this capacity does not function equally. Not to give, that is, everyone because they want a hundred and twenty doses, but because they can. Because if he can pay in thirty or forty instalments his debt, based on the profile, will be thirty or forty instalments. On the contrary, the previous arrangements said a hundred and twenty and whoever wants to choose. That's not gonna happen now. And that's not gonna happen now. The previous model also failed, for that reason, because there were debtors who could pay more quickly the sums they owed and did not do so because they were being facilitated by such indirect recourse to a loan from the social security system. It is neither right for social security nor for the economy nor for the insured to do so. That is why we are working on such models that we are approaching - I have said so many times in the past, that is the purpose and that is what we will do - the debtor's profile, so that it is actually possible to pay the debts, so that we do not have the phenomenon of going into regulation and re-establishing, which was done before the various debt paying models. I think that, with everyone's contribution and a goodwill and the bodies that represent the insured, we will make good information to everyone and we will have good results.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-11-S1-commons.u17	When do you anticipate, Minister, about?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-11-S1-commons.u18	Look, they're models that we're working on in a way that wants work. I guess we'll be done in two months. We have built the electronic form that collects the data and we are already processing the data to create models. I believe that in this period of time we will be ready. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-11-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, thirty-seven students and students and four educational attendants from the 2nd Katerini Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We continue with the fifth under No 692/444/2017 topical question by MP Kilkis of the New Democracy Mr Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgiodas to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the immediate payment of the beneficiaries of organic farming - livestock farming of the Kilkis County. The Minister for Rural Development and Food will answer Mr. Ioannis Tsironis. Mr Georgade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-11-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the question of the payment of organic crops to either agriculture or livestock is a very serious issue for the parties concerned, as these payments do not simply come to complete their income. They are payments which will be necessary in order to be able to repay the debts from the increased expenditure required for such crops and, at the same time, to monitor their commitments in relation to the quality that must exist in such a crop. While, at the end of 2016 - in December - payment for the year 2014 in many parts of the country, there were still some counties - in which Kilkis is also - where the payment for 2014 was not made, while it was a purely formal process now. What was expected from the beginning of the year and for which the Minister, Mr Apostolos, was committed, is that the joint ministerial decision, which is necessary for the decommitment of the sums required, would be made within the first quarter at the latest, so that the rest of the prefectures for 2014 can be paid, along with the procedure for 2015. Unfortunately, while we are in mid-May, there were these commitments, that this will not only be done, but that it was done. This has been heard - for 2014, I repeat - by official lips and MPs, but also by government lips. At the moment we have no picture of what is happening, and because these people have to define their obligations and plan their crops, I would ask that we have a clear answer for these prefectures, which has been unpaid in 2014, when they hope they can be paid.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-11-S1-commons.u21	Mr. Chironi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-11-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr President. You're really right. Organic production aid is not just an income support, but it is precisely what is provided for in the European regulation, the difference between conventional and organic farming. And the difference arises from an increase in costs and from a reduction in efficiency when we talk about organic farming on some crops. So it is vitally necessary to pay the farmers on time, so that they can cover these costs. Otherwise, they'll face survival problems. To speak specifically now, you know well that organic farming has had problems. I am not going to mention them in my first speech, because I want to get into the essence of your question. I hope I'll be given the time after second thoughts. Currently throughout Greece we have really completed at least 65% of the 2014 payments and 55% of organic livestock for 2014. The ministerial decision, to which you refer, has left our office to the Ministry of Finance on 28-3-2017 and, from what I have been informed to reply, has already been signed by Mr. Juliarakis. So at the moment we think that both in 2014 and in all cases and not only in Kilkis - except, of course, if there are few cases of problems, objections in particular, because the objections for 2014 have been closed, as far as I know, but some of them are pending, but I do not think they are about your prefecture - they will have been paid by the end of June. In addition, this ministerial decision that we signed will expire by the end of the year - I appreciate - all payments for 2015 and 2016. We're closing the whole program. I therefore think that with the very high speed of payments last year - and this acceleration is being completed in this year too - this very large strip that has been created - the lanes, that is, that we have been handling the previous year even outstanding payments in 2009, 2010, 2011 - is slowly closing. We therefore arrive at the point, from what I have been informed, because, as you know, the programme is being handled by OPEKEPE, our management is not handling it - and it is doing so, I think it is right that it is right that OPEKEPE handles all the programmes - very soon, by the end of the year, to have absolutely no loose end, that is, even the 2016 payments have been closed in 2017.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-11-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Georgiod, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-11-S1-commons.u24	I should like to thank the Minister for the clear answer in relation to 2014 and to hope, Minister, that we do not have to come back and the payment really does not end June, but also earlier. It can be done earlier, Minister, as all remaining - if the joint ministerial decision has been signed by Mr Juliarakis too - is that the OPECE will now give the relevant directives to the DAGs to send the files. And then, from what service agents tell me, it's just a few days, very few weeks, so that the payment can be made. In any case, it is pleasant to have a final payment period, because you understand that they are being pushed and due, which was needed for the duration of their farms. So at the end of June I hope it will be an end date for 2014, which I think is simple, because, unfortunately, there have been some statements and communications earlier, which at the moment I do not want to come back and which have created some expectations from the farmers. Of course, I too agree with you that bio-farming has not been achieved by the previous government of attention and consistency, due to the programme. We need to be honest and we need to recognise delays in the past. This programme was a programme which also required the state to monitor the dates and deadlines for the farmers to respond. There's been an effort from the previous ones. That ends this effort by you. Let us hope until the end of the year, as you yourself say, that there is no loose end. In any case, because the subject of this question was this for 2014, I would like to express my satisfaction with your reply and take the opportunity to tell you that a parallel, similar delay is also in relation to forest crops in programmes where there is a delay there. Perhaps you could see this too, because there is a similar obligation there on the part of those who joined the programme. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-11-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr. Georganta. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-11-S1-commons.u26	I, too, want to say that it is not my culture to stand up for the opposition. You know very well that, in the majority of cases, these great delays are due to an intrinsic problem with all our agricultural and livestock production, the fact that we did not have the property in Greece well-separated. There was a huge number of coatings, which may not bother a traditional grower. Because when it is found that my field has an overlap with the neighbour's field, a technical movement in the field, when we talk about traditional cultivation, may not harm anyone and benefit everyone. But when we talk about a bio-engineer, you know very well that the bio-engineer has declared his 13-digit numbers, the spaces of his field on the organism certificate, so any overlapping blows his own request in the air. Finally, it is the victim of an unregulated situation in Greece's planning, which is an intrinsic problem - you know, we know - which is being tackled slowly. For example, I mention the number from Lesvos where I had recently gone. Of the four thousand cases of such overlapping, four hundred have been left pending. You know very well that it's not the OPEKEPE's job to judge whether I am right or you, when there is a overlap. That's where OPEKEPE cuts everything. He can't do the court. In this respect, the register had to be made, the forest maps had to be made to close all these loose ends and no such overlap had to be made. I hope that with the completion of the register in a short time, because this has accelerated, all this nightmare at some point to stop and, indeed, people are paid - after all, the new regulation is strict - within a year of their compensation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-11-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We continue with the debate of the sixth under number 654/27-3-2017 on the second time question of the second question by MP Evros of the New Democracy. Anastasios State to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the exception of Evros and Samothraki from exceptional aid to milk producers in islands facing problems due to migratory flows. Mr. Treasury, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-11-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, on 8 February, you signed the Ministerial Decision setting out the financial emergency aid of approximately EUR 2 million to milk producers in the islands facing urban migration and refugee flows. We are talking about the islands of Mytilini, Chios, Samos, Kos, Megistis, Lero and according to the publications, they have been retrospectively included. In an unfair way, however, you have excluded Evros and Samothraki from this positive decision, and the truth is that both I and the interested parties are trying to find the grounds for exclusion and we cannot find reasonable reasons and fairness, in your view. I would like to remind you that it was your Government that incorporated Samothraki in the amendment to freeze the increase in VAT on the islands, of course, after a strong claim by the speaker before Parliament too. The most natural thing would be for Samothraki and Evros to join this process, because we, Mr President, have been accepting migratory flows for decades and decades, with pain of soul, seeing these people in our courtyards, in our businesses, in our fields. However, that is why we also have the border guards, which is why we also have the deterrent barrier to the heights of the Castanes, the New Pyssa to the side of the Karaats and the Adrianopolis. I would like to inform you that economic migrants and refugees are about five hundred and fifty-six hundred and twenty-four hours a day. This was long before the large flow of refugees and immigrants on our island began. That is why, Minister, you ask: What do you have to say to the farmers of Evros and Samothrace who are following us today and who have every right to feel wronged by this decision? Do you intend to correct your wrong decision and include Evros and Samothraki, as you should? Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-11-S1-commons.u29	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-11-S1-commons.u30	No one doubts that Evros and Samothraki, like other regions of Greece, are areas that have always accepted migration flows. In fact, we can say that Evros and Samothraki, due to their proximity to the neighbouring country of Turkey, are regions which have also faced other serious problems, such as exotic diseases. The islands which are very close to the Turkish coast and especially Evros are areas that are the gates of entry from Turkey. You know, all these diseases come mainly from Turkey and rarely have a reverse flow. Rarely, then, there are diseases coming from neighbouring European countries. However, let me disagree with you on whether this particular measure should'spread' so much and also give Evros and Samothraki. You know that in recent years, last year or last year, we are not just talking about some migratory flows which are a more general problem in the whole region. We are talking about refugee flows that almost dissolved the social fabric on specific islands, such as in Lesvos. You mentioned the rest, I don't want to mention it all. Last year the tourism of these islands collapsed because of precisely all this problem. So it's a problem that's a specialist. Of course, we can only recognise that the costs incurred by these regions, without wanting to underestimate the problems of other regions, are huge. We should therefore aim at these people who, during a period of budgetary suffocation, suffered such a great blow and by heroism, welcomed the refugees. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] We are not talking here about generalised migration flows. This is what the whole planet was talking about. The same is happening in Italy. Another thing, Labedusa and another thing, the other Italy, because Sicily also accepts migratory flows. But Lampedusa is a Lambedusa. It's a huge problem right now for Italy. Mytilini is Mytilini. Chios is a Chios. They've got a lot of trouble. By'swiping' a measure in a sense of alleged justice and, because it is a concrete measure, by'supplier' it to too many beneficiaries, we are simply very much reducing the support for these people. In my second speech, because I do not want to abuse time, I will explain to you what we are doing right now about Evros and Samothraki. There are things that we are doing specifically there, which will alleviate our producers in these areas much more than we have just shared this envelope with more beneficiaries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-11-S1-commons.u31	Here you go, Mr. Publics. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-11-S1-commons.u32	Mr Minister, the losses of our producers of milk, sheep and goatmeat are great. Calculating the number of sheep and goats - sixty-five thousand (165,000) in the land area of Evros, forty thousand (40,000) in the island of Samothrace, but also six thousand (6,000) dairy cows - the cost according to what you have decided is about 1,200,000 euros. In other words, you give 80 euros for each dairy cow and about 4 euros for each dairy sheep and goat. I don't think we're out of time. We have the problems you mentioned that the islands really face. We are in support of these people, of all those who have been hurt and are even affected today. But both Evros and Samothraki have the same problems and even bigger problems. It's just that we Jews and Thraces don't yell and make our pain known. But you, who are down here, do not understand, because you come up there, take a walk - and I can call it - of public relations, but you do not solve our problems. As you can see, the amounts are very important, as I said before. Because of your policies, our farmers have suffered great damage and critical blows. That is why we will call for our rightful demands to be met and for our problems to be resolved. In the past, I had raised a number of issues with Parliament, and none had been resolved. The important thing is the issue of zoonoses, which you have mentioned, and especially the issue of lumpy skin disease and pestilence. He still owes the Greek state to those affected by the blessing. We have also called for a plan for the treatment of zoonoses. We asked for the treatment of the centre of exotic diseases that is in Orestia. We have the best and most modern laboratory, and unfortunately we do not have staff at this time to put it on the move and deal with the key problems, namely zoonoses coming from the neighbouring country aiming at Greece and then spreading them across Europe. We have asked for a veterinary school to be set up. It was decided four to five days ago that the Chaplain of the University of Thrace its enlargement and its identification geographically with the administration, that is, with Eastern Macedonia and Thrace, an extension to Kavala and Drama. And through this process they propose the establishment of a veterinary school in Alexandroupolis. What is the government's position? What's the position of your ministry? Do you agree to establish a veterinary school in Alexandroupolis? In any case, our problems are many. Firstly, for the plan to address the floods of Evros and its divestments, you have done nothing. Secondly, to deal with the Orestiad and TWG, for which I have already asked you in writing. In fact, this year's irrigation system is at risk of blowing into the air and not having to deal with the problem. Also, in the Thracian Sea - you are a sensitive and ecologicalist - at the moment, all the fishing grounds are affected by the neighbouring country by those fishermen who are doing cruiser operations in international waters as well, but above all in our own territorial waters. I think, Minister, that you should bend to the problems of Evros and solve what we are really concerned about at the moment. I would like to take this into account.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-11-S1-commons.u33	Mr. Purchass, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-11-S1-commons.u34	I'm closing, Mr. President. We, Chief, will vote for you, but we want to remain the deterrent here to protect us, our children and our grandchildren, because we find the foreigners in our courtyards, in the barns, in the mantle and in the stables. We want you to protect us. These people, Minister, are heroes, because within five hundred metres is Adrianoupolis. They are following today's debate. I would like you to tell them whether you will pay them, as you are due, in terms of milk production either in cattle or in their ovine and caprine animals. They're listening. Please, when you start your dentistry to answer them. The second thing I would like to know about, Mr President, is this. Two days ago, the Region of Orestiad and the Twin wall was hit by intense hail. We have suffered major disasters throughout our production. Firstly, we want a rapid response in terms of recording the damage. This is a topical issue, Mr President. Secondly, we want you to tell us what your anti-hailing policy is with regard to the protection of Eastern Macedonia and Thrace, including Evros. Because the state protects Thessaly, Central Macedonia and Western Macedonia and was scheduled since 2015 to enter this process and Eastern Macedonia and Thrace, that is, to be done by air, through aircraft. What did you do about everything I told you?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-11-S1-commons.u35	Mr. Purchass, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-11-S1-commons.u36	I'm done. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-11-S1-commons.u37	Before giving the floor to the Minister, let me explain something for a moment. Mr Graefe zu Baringdorf, I understand your concern about all the things you have said, but in the context of this parliamentary control procedure, which is under discussion between the honourable Member and the Minister in question, you know that, you have just made it quite clear, and I do not say so with some grasp - this procedure requires this debate between the honourable Member and the Minister, the Minister concerned, to be the question, perhaps with a generalisation on the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-11-S1-commons.u38	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-11-S1-commons.u39	No, I won't give you the floor, excuse me. I understand you. I'm explaining, it's nothing personal. This concerns not only you, but on the occasion of you and other Members. Because the questions you have raised, on the basis of obviously the problems that have arisen in the region from which you come, are understandable, but...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-11-S1-commons.u40	The damage from the hail.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-11-S1-commons.u41	Yes, of course, damages, etc. But it is perhaps another time-consuming question. Because if the Minister takes over with this - I do not know, he is here, if he wants to say two words is his right - if we open this debate together with your question and the answers that the Minister will possibly give, I beg you, but we will get away from time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-11-S1-commons.u42	We've already gone too far.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-11-S1-commons.u43	So let's give the Minister the floor. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-11-S1-commons.u44	I really think you have raised very hot questions, which, if you had warned me, I would have brought in very detailed information to answer. For example, I'll tell you a few things about which I have knowledge, because it happened and I've handled them in the last few days. For all the rest, I am at your disposal and with written questions on your part - it does not have to be a timely question - so that we can answer people in writing, too, to have the information. So, for example, I was right to say that you said - and it is something that I handled in the last few days symptomically I have here - that it had become the cross-border centre, if I remember right in 2008 - and now I am looking for the numbers because I don't remember it, but I think it was in 2008 - in Orestia, the Centre for Exotic Diseases, which has never worked. And it never worked with your own responsibilities. It's a building that exists, you quite rightly said it. So I would like to inform you that, in order for the rural women and farmers in the region to hear it, the Centre for Exotic Diseases will work immediately, because we have incorporated it into the programme - which even happened to have it with me at this time - the exotic diseases of pestilence, foot-and-mouth disease, plague and lumpy skin disease, which is a programme that contains means and people to operate the cross-border centre, but also contains all the logistics infrastructure, even vehicles to carry out controls, extra checks on extra control by veterinarians. It is a programme that we have fought for in the European Union. It's outside European funds. In March 2017 we were approved. Here I have the English text. If I were ready, I would give you details of the programme, which is currently restored to an enormous injustice of the regions of course and the other islands, but especially as regards Evros, because you will see that the veterinarians who come to Evros are two, while in other areas it will only be one. I do not have the opportunity at this time to discuss it in detail. For lumpy skin disease alone, I would say that for the replacement of livestock for your region EUR 2,258,000 was given, and that is something I had with me to say it. To say a very important one, which is precisely those transports. Finally, it re-entrys and is proclaimed a free coastline of Alexandroupolis - Lemnos - Mytilini, because when we talk about livestock, you know that from Alexandroupolis the feed should normally go to these islands. Unfortunately, this line had been abolished. To talk about the geothermal fields. We're starting now, soon, the field of Traianopolis. I think it doesn't allow me time to say any more. Just two more things I'll say in ten seconds. You know very well that there is the respirator in Soufly, which never worked. We have taken EUR 1,900,000 from the European Union. It is a ready factory since 2001, which I visited a few days ago. And we had a meeting days ago just to unleash this project immediately. You're a resident in the area. You realize the huge importance of a wheelchair in Greece at last. We have a gold, called silk, and we can't use it. I cannot deal with all the issues because, as you quite rightly said, Mr President, I could speak for half an hour. However, I would be very pleased to hear all the issues that you have mentioned and to give you a clear timetable. Please send me, even if it is informal, by mail, any written labels and I will reply to all these issues which are our timetable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-11-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We continue with the question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, about when the payments of organic farming and livestock are to be made. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-11-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Mr President. I should like to say that it is a written question from 31 March, which has not been answered, and that is why it is coming as timely. It concerns the same subject, which has been discussed before, and has had to be discussed together. It's all right, though. That's only a matter of time. We need to see and make an assessment of organic farming, which has made a decisive contribution to strengthening agricultural production over the past few years. At the same time, however, issues have also been identified which must be improved every time in order to upgrade the functioning of organic farming support systems, in order to achieve the best result. Unfortunately, there are great delays in payments. This leads to the inability to ensure liquidity on the part of bio-growers so that they can continue to grow. I think that there is a problem with the immediate performance of the cooperation between OPEKEPE and the OAS, without being able to make a division of responsibilities. Maybe it's one of the reasons. However, there are also more general delays, such as the adoption of the joint ministerial decision, which this year needs to be adopted, in order to move forward. I think that it should be at the centre of the ministry's attention so that things can be improved and that these delays do not exist. As has been said before, we have 35% of 2014 that has not yet been paid, but we also have for 2015 and for 2016. We see, in other words, that the corresponding delay in the previous period continues. This means that something specific needs to be changed for this process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-11-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-11-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Mr President. Symptoms before I answered again. But let's talk about it again, 'cause they're listening to rural women and farmers and they're interested in it immediately. First of all, the payments made for 2014 in Greece are: 65% for organic farming and 55% for organic livestock. We have done a great deal of work - and I think we will finally close this in the spring - and it has already been signed for the existing ministerial decision on the licensing of stack facilities. You know that a very large proportion of our farmers were being delayed because of this authorisation. And that is a matter that goes to a solution. It is a huge development issue to finally have licensed legal stacking facilities. With regard to the ministerial decision, to which you refer, I repeat that it was signed by me personally, it was left the office rather - it was signed a few days ago, on 28 March - towards the Ministry of Finance. And from what I have been informed to come and answer, it has already been signed by Mr. Juliarakis. It is therefore a matter of time for technical publication in the Official Journal of the Government. And from there on, they'll be able to start paying. I think that all 2014, from what they tell me at the OPEKEPE, it will close in June, perhaps in some areas clearly earlier. And all in 2015 and 2016 will be completed by the end of the year. As to why there was the delay, I think you said a vote on the answer. It's not just there. I said before that, mainly because of the overlapping of land, which creates a huge problem for the beneficiaries, and that is something that we are working intensively to complete and end. In fact, you are right, however, that a significant share of responsibility is the double responsibility between the DAGs and OPEKEPE. If you want my personal humble opinion, I do not want to represent the expert, but the DAGs do not cooperate - and this is a whole matter of public administration - directly and vertically with the services of the Ministry. They may well belong to the regions, but they should normally, as is the case in France, be vertically integrated and in close cooperation with the Ministry. It is a model that unfortunately does not apply to Greece. The same is happening with town planning, with the forest addresses, with dozens of other services, which have the same problems because the relevant ministries have no reason to say about these services operating in the regions, and there should be a vertical connection. So, very important problem is there, but you know that in the new programme we are abolishing it, because now an agency will be responsible for everything, the OPECE, and everything will be done electronically. So, at least we think that this problem will have been definitively overcome by the new structure of organic farming programmes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-11-S1-commons.u49	Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-11-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Mr President. Producers, of course, who need these payments to have the minimum liquidity to grow next year, have no responsibility for any lack of cooperation between DMGs and OPEKEPEs or any delays due to any reason in the functioning of the administration. That is why solutions should be given. I think there was a solution to this. I do not know whether there is, for example, a programme agreement provided for by the law between the Ministry of Rural Development, the Ministry of the Interior, the OPECE and the regions, in a text which defines the procedures and obligations of each side for this programme or other programmes. Because that's not all, it's other programs. It is an idea that can function, without needing law or change in administration, only with the authorization given by the respective law, which provides for programming contracts. However, I would also like to say that there is a more general issue about the programme, in which there have been some variations. There have been some gaps which, unfortunately, seem to lead to a delay in the new programme, and there may also be problems with the allocation, that is to say, for them to consider that the old farmers are not wronged against young people, other young farmers to think they are wrong. This also concerns the relationship between livestock and agriculture, but also this division. I would say that a consultation should take place or if you have made it proceed with a final settlement of the amounts to be set aside for each side or the mid-term review, so that they can be transferred to the side where there is greater interest. This is something you need to see in relation to the new program. I would also like to raise a point which is similar. I don't have the right to answer me, because it's not in the question, but it's through the same program. I got an email this morning that there is a matter of paying the afforestation programs, Measure 221, which has not been paid last year. Of course, they probably waited for this FSA, which we are all talking about today, to make the next payment. Keep in mind that there are many issues in connection with production. I think you get the messages too. Unfortunately, the programme that Mr Tsakalotos agreed last time but also the new one bears on agricultural production with huge burdens and taxes and levies and this is unfortunately not in the direction that we want and which the Ministry of Rural Development could promote, in other words, an increase in agricultural production with an increase in income, which will enable us to increase national income on this basis as well. But I think there are other issues that we can resolve, beyond the international commitments that Mr Tsakalotos and the government have brought us.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-11-S1-commons.u51	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-11-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, Mr President. It is clear that I am not ready to answer - because it was not in the question - about the afforestation. I'll be happy to send you a written note whenever you want, as soon as I get up to speed. But on the important political issues raised by Mr Kegeroglu, I really think it is worth answering, because they are the ones that actually raise the whole problem of the previous programme as well. The cultivation in Greece was indeed the scoundrel over all these decades, while in other countries it was galloping. I think it is the Greek relief that gives a huge advantage to us to have high-quality products. In 2014, on the previous government - I am not wrong, I also told the House in the question submitted - that the NATURA regions should be the main criterion for prioritisation. Sounds reasonable. I must point out that from 2014 until a few weeks ago no-one - I stress it - either by bio-farmers or by certificates from organisations or by professional geoponns had criticised this criterion. Sounded like there were some other priorities for the rest of us. However, in 2014, when submitted by our predecessors, the program was "NATURA". Of course, no one could appreciate that NATURA applicants will far exceed the entire programme. So what we did - and we are with the law - was that at least in planting, which was within the budget, we gave the beneficiaries the NATURA money. It's about 220 million. However, I think that there will be much less of what we are going to give, because we have decided not to take the beneficiaries of an agri-environmental programme any other rural environment. So those who will take this program will not get Nervousia or "Commuzio" or other programs. In this sense some will probably choose not to take this program. In livestock farming, of course - and you are quite right - NATURA could not work because, because of the technical solution, the fields taken by farmers are not where they grow. Technical solution doesn't give the field. He's giving it randomly. So here's a problem. That's where we had a lot of overcompensation anyway. So under the law, we had every right to reopen. Thank you for the opportunity to answer and listen to Mr Kegeroglou's question and for all our bio-farmers, our farmers and our farmers, that we are planning the programme that will be the lion's share of over 400 million, so that now the basic criterion is the experience - there is in other countries - which will be the longer. So there is no chance, but there is no way that any living bio-manufacturer who is proven by the evidence that he is in the bio-farming industry will not get money and take someone else who may not be entitled to it. This will be the most important criterion for us. [[At this point, the end of the speech by the Deputy Minister is ringing at the end of the speech bell.]] I would like a minute, Mr President. I haven't abused any time at all. With regard to the general tax, insurance problems you have raised, I believe that the vast majority of our farmers and farmers are benefiting from the new system. That's proved to be it. It looked like numbers. The farmers themselves and the rural women themselves admit that the small, those who really have a survival problem and have low incomes are those who mainly benefit. So don't keep saying and we're remitting that this is currently causing a problem. There are, in fact, problems among the largest producers, which we have very good cooperation to solve. I think, finally, that this new tax and insurance programme will benefit as a whole. But should I say something else that's important? The important problem with our producer today, Mr Kegeroglu, is not whether he will pay a tax of EUR 500 or 600. The important problem is that feta is sold on the world market of EUR 5,60 pounds - it is not a feta price, it could easily be sold 15 and 20 euros, as Italians do with their own cheeses - and that their inputs are twice and three times above their competitors' inputs. These are the major serious problems. So when a medicinal product is bought by our producer EUR 130 and the Italian EUR 30, the same medicine, from the same pharmaceutical company, with the same title, this is a problem which we must deal with above all, and we are now aiming at it. We aim to organize input-outputs with agrilogistics, so that these abuses do not occur dominance of your position and these oligopolistic behaviours. If these figures are solved, which we are talking about right now, which the farmer and the farmer will pay for his insurance, it is a plaque in front of these huge problems, how much he pays the feed or how much the pesticide pays. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-11-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We continue with the third with the number 797/4-5-2017 topical question of the first cycle of the MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The Government is blocking the investment for the development of the former airport of Greece". The Minister of Finance, Mr. Euclidis Tsakalotos, will answer. Mr. Constantinople, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-11-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, I will only be in the question, and I hope you will do so, because it is a question which has been tabled for four months. On September 21st was passed by the Parliament, the contract for the exploitation of the former airport of the Hellenic Republic. This is, perhaps, a project that is the largest private investment project in Europe, analogous to the Olympic Games. On 11 November, in my question, you said to me that "all the ministers are doing their job and that they will proceed very soon". In fact, you told me that "the only problem that exists is casino, which is a little delayed because we want to present a strategy for casinos in general". "Read" tell me: "The maturation of the property in collaboration with all the relevant departments of the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of the Environment, the Forestry and all that...". We all know - they call it the media, your MPs, Ministers - that, firstly, there is a question with the master and with the forest office, which wants to say that this area of the former airport was a forest. It is written, read and I want an answer as to whether there is any such issue, whether or not it has been resolved. Secondly, we saw Mrs. Konordou last week moving forward to the following procedure: He signed for the referral back to the central council of newer monuments and for the review of the three buildings of the Greek. She, however, made her decision back after a while. I think she would understand that she was wrong. There are also issues, such as the Greek Office, for which - I have an answer from Mrs Papanatsiou on 19 December - I am told that the procedures have gone ahead. Minister, I think you want to make it clear, and once we have all voted together, there is one question, which is not just about us and you, but about seventy thousand young people who are either in Greece or abroad and want to return to work on this great flagship project. My question is very clear to you: it has already been eight months. When will the project be delivered to investors so that this investment can proceed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-11-S1-commons.u55	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-11-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, Mr President. I will not repeat what we said last time we discussed this about trying to make the contract better and the many great benefits that we gained from this renegotiation. I'm going straight to the question and tell you that on behalf of "ELLENINIKI S.A." the technical details of the nine hundred building blocks of the area for preparing the transfer have been recorded and grouped. We have completed the verification of the integrated development plan on the basis of the specifications of Law 4062/12 and the contract ratified by Law 4422/16. We have the study of declared preserved buildings for their technical preparation and maturation of the transfer. The Special Committee of Experts was also set up. Decisions were taken on the designation as a monument to the English hangar 'Pagoda' and on the non-classification of the other proposed buildings. It was legally foreseen that a casino licence could be issued within the Metropolitan Pole of Greece - Agios Kosmas, which will be awarded following an international auction. Let me tell you here as a sideline that within this plan we have commissioned a redesign company for all casinos, so that all investors know how much casinos it will be in Attica and the other regions. That's something that matters. The necessary advance has been made and all the procedures required to resolve the outstandings have been advanced in relation to the classification of the area by the Forestry and the Archaeological Service. In the near future, the final solution to the matter is expected. As you can see, when there are independent authorities or there will be independent authorities, or there will be orders from the ministers who say to them: 'Do this, do it the other way round'. When you have independent authorities, you also have some problems working with their own times and with their own judgment. They are not the officials, in this sense, of the state who can take instructions. A complete development plan for the Metropolitan Polo – Agios Kosmas was approved by the Board of Directors of the Ministry of Education of the Hellenic Republic and is imminent for the submission by the investor in the next period, so that the process of issuing the Presidential Decree, which will determine the conditions for development, can then be launched. There's been a lot of other things, so I think you're going to be very pleased that a lot of things are going on and the project goes on, as we all want.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-11-S1-commons.u57	Mr. Constantinople, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-11-S1-commons.u58	Minister, I understand, first of all, that there are procedures that take a while. I don't understand why it takes eight months to tell one view or the other. As far as I am concerned, this issue is over at the Legal Council of the State. The question is whether there is a political will to go ahead. I'm not asking you to say anything to the master. The master will say a point of view, yes or no. But when there is a decision of the Legal Council of the State which has been published and says that there was no forest there, why does this not go any further? As far as the President-in-Office is concerned - because you know very well that we will end up - you yourself said to me last time, on 24-11, that 'the forthcoming period is also expected and the tabling of the relevant plans, studies by a strategic environmental impact study' - I understand that it has been tabled - 'the extradition process will then be launched - you say it - a presidential decree setting out the conditions for the development of the area'. So the only problem you're telling me then is the casino. The presidential decree is not easy, Minister, if you have not even done the Greek office until now, if you are still telling me that all these procedures will be over. I understand all the difficulties, which is why I have told you that I will not go into other issues today. But I ask you something very clear. It's been nine months. The Presidential Decree, Minister, no matter how much you want - and be on top of it, it takes six to seven months. As you do, you won't even be able to make it through in one year. I ask you directly: does the government have a timetable to proceed with the procedures and to surrender to the investor so that seventy thousand new jobs can be given to the young people in our country? You yourself tabled - and we discussed it here - the study of IOBE, which I understand, and you support, which said that in the first year of operation we would benefit 2% of GDP. I don't want to combine it with measures, because it's something special, and I think it's worth it. Minister, it is no longer a question of fighting on these issues, but of helping each other to move forward. Because we're probably going to do four months to talk again, I'm asking you something very simple: what's the timeline for the project to be delivered to the investor, to start the procedures? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-11-S1-commons.u59	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-11-S1-commons.u60	I say to you that a strict timeframe, when things are outside the control of the Greek Government, cannot exist. When you have independent authorities that may be delayed for good reasons, you cannot have this strict timetable you are asking for. I think it's very simple. If there is a government commitment to finish the work as quickly as possible, there is precisely for the reasons you have said, for the jobs and the contribution it will have to the Gross National Product. That is precisely why this commitment exists. That is why, apart from the actions I have told you, we also have the staff of the Greek office. The General Secretariat of Public Property has taken the necessary steps to identify the staffing needs of the Hellenic Office. Other procedures are also being explored to complement the staff of this office with special scientific staff, who together with the other employees of the office will support the implementation of the investment in the Metropolitan Pole of the Greek. All these processes are done. I also think that the issue with the office will be resolved very quickly, as will the issue with the Archaeological Service. So, well you raise the matter. There's no reason to fight. We're trying to find the best solutions, some that's up to us, but some that's not totally up to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-11-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We continue with the sixth question under No 796/3-5-2017 of the First cycle of the Z Vice-President of the Parliament and MP of Athens, Potamios Spyridon Lykoudis, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "They remain real estate for which the public pays high rents". Mr. Lykoudi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-11-S1-commons.u62	Minister, I will tell you something I said to Mr Polakis two days ago to another question I had tabled. When a question takes four months to answer, obviously, if anything, it loses its directness. It is not a kind of criticism that I am now exercising, because I know very well that especially in these months you have had such a workload that you could omit your presence in parliamentary control. I say this, however, in order to agree that some of the elements I am quoting, if they are considered not to be the way they are, are trustworthy and well-founded, although I think it has not changed anything, in my opinion. Minister, the problem of government property that remains untapped is unbelievable in this country. A country that is literally wasting enormous money is wasting money, it's wasting money, it's not being able to use the evidence that it's was wasting that money. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Vice-President hits the warning.]] Mr President, I would like to ask you, in particular, to allow me to table the question, because I really will not need more than a minute. And if I need it. I want to take two short walks together in two public property. The first walk will be in the historic building on Thebes Avenue, that is, the building of "KERANIS". It was originally built as a smoke-industrial warehouse. It was then purchased on behalf of the Greek State in order to house the central services of the Ministry of Finance. His price was 56,628,000 euros. The important problem is that it never became the establishment of the services of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in the building and while attempts were made to install other public services, the building remained void for years until it was transferred by ownership to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. From there on, he was granted accommodation for the Piraeus court services, with a rent obligation of 3,000 euros if the tender was completed and the building was granted to an investor. The property was sold by TIADED at the company "NATIONAL PANGA S.A.", using the known method, and was leased for 20 years to housing general government services, with rented EUR 2,652,000 per year. The Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights left the property informing the Ministry of Finance. And today, on the sixth floor of the building, the Special Secretariat for the Management of Private Debts is housed, paying the price corresponding to the use of one floor. The public, however, is obliged and paid every month the entire amount of rent in a building that is essentially void. A second little walk. The building on Kifisia Avenue 39 in the Municipality of Amarousi, the Press Graptou Centre at the Olympic Games. The building in question belonged to the company ‘OLYMPIAKA AKINITA’, which has been merged with the EBRD. At the end of the Olympic Games, the company "OLYMPIAKA AKINITA" granted the property for use, free of charge, to the Ministry of Health and Social Solidarity. And then the property passed the ownership of the GOI was transferred to the company ‘EUROBANK PROPERTIES’, using the so-called method, and leased by the State for the accommodation of services. There are some services in the building today - some services, Mr Minister - which will soon leave, while most of the building remains empty and the public is obliged to pay the monthly rent of EUR 300,000, i.e. approximately EUR 3.5 million per year, for a building which is essentially empty. Mr President, Minister, I have been looking for these facts sincerely to tell you that I have found an unbelievable picture. I could never think that this state could have such a waste of money when the country is in the state it is in. I ask you whether there is any explanation for this up to now, unreasonable smuggling of public money, if there is any plan for a better, different use of buildings, and what measures are you going to take to make use of existing buildings, so that the public is not forced to hire new buildings? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-11-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, Mr. Lykoudi. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-11-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to thank my colleague for his understanding of the delay. However, I do not think that the evidence has changed much, as you say, and I do not think the question is off the table, because we have been late. In other words, the problem exists and it will continue to worry about us. What I wanted to say is that, when I was a member of the opposition, I asked these questions, but when I came to the Ministry, I realized that there are quite a lot of problems that need to be addressed to make the best management of resources and buildings. It is a process that is delayed for many reasons. A lot of things that are best to go and be in the same building already have leases and you need to see if you have a net benefit. In many things you need to see - what economists say - economies of scale and economies of scale, see that it is right, for example, in KERANIS, that they too are going to the ministries or those services and not others. I am saying this because I thought now, as I was speaking - if you are following the English comic series 'Yes, Minister' and 'Yes, Prime Minister' - that the bureaucrat always finds reasons to delay the process, but I think it is true. However, I would like to reply to you on the two occasions that you have referred to. It's not the same, it's different cases. The keranis building is already housed by the Private Debt Management Secretariat, and the establishment of the Independent Judicial Review Authority has been decided. The transformation of all the General Secretariat of Sports is being carried out. There is a positive opinion on the housing of the Ministry of Migration Policy on all the left wing floors. In addition, the first Lending Information and Support Office will be housed. At the same time, the movement of the Ministry of Migration Policy is being investigated and both ministries are working in this direction. The renting of new buildings for the accommodation of large services, which do not have the specific specifications, have been substantially frozen until the building of the Treasury Street is filled. For the other building, which is on the Kifisias Avenue, we have contacted the Ministry of Health to get a service out of there because it takes too much work for this building. In this case the delay is due to the fact that this building is not ready and it needs money to be able to attract a number of services. It is, however, a problem that I hope will be resolved very quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-11-S1-commons.u65	Mr. Lykoudis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-11-S1-commons.u66	Minister, first of all - and it is not a compliment - I thank you for your honesty to accept that the facts are accurate. Because I, too, didn't come here to make an opposition. One check I came to do to see what we're going to do. These stories make an eye on money smashing. I want to make a comment. You spoke about the establishment of the Independent Judicial Review Authority in this building. Minister, you refer to five people. I am thinking, in other words, how easily we can have the comfort of saying to go to a five-man service in a building and continue to pay the money we have been paying for the whole building so far. I have the impression that we need to take very good care of how we manage these properties. They're nobody's property. They're public real estate. I would like to say something and I shall end with that, Mr President, because the honesty of the Minister, who said that the evidence is accurate and something we have to do, removes the possibility or the right - if you like - from me to say more. You know, last year Mr Alexiadis spoke with particular humor about these issues. I liked it, and that's why I'm going to read it to you, because it's really worth reading and doing with each other. Referring to the building "KERANIS" he said: "It has offices of ministers that have been manufactured with luxurious facilities in previous years. Excessive expenditure has also been incurred, for example in the parking lot, in order to increase parking places. There are parking lots on which someone climbs his car by pressing a button. We are talking about such luxuries and money smashing. That's the money we've thrown.' He revealed - and here is his humor - that there are services that pay a rent per employee - he made this game matching a rent - EUR 667, elsewhere EUR 704 and elsewhere EUR 936. Mr Alexiadis then said: 'I imagine that if we go to a not five-star hotel, but four-star hotel, and say how much you want a month, to bring thirty employees, he will ask for less and he will have breakfast'. I say this because it is a charisma which shows, however, the incredible situation in which the case of the two real estates of the public is today in a country - I repeat - which is suffering financially. In this sense, Minister, I would like to say that we absolutely must take steps to restore a different picture on this issue and, in any case, to convince the ordinary Greek citizens that, apart from their own efforts to contribute to the escape from the crisis, and the Greek State does not think that it has some corpse from which it spoils money wherever it wants and when it wants. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-11-S1-commons.u67	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-11-S1-commons.u68	Thank you, Mr President. I think the good colleague puts forward short- and medium-term issues. The short-term issue he raises concerns the KERANI building. Our goal is to fill up by Christmas. That's what we're working for. So you can ask me a Christmas question about it. The medium-term may be more serious - because, all right, a building will not save us - it is the government's strategy to review expenditure for the whole public. We started this year with some pilot projects for the Ministries of Economy, Economics and Culture and another one, which is escaping me at the moment, but for four ministries. Within 2017 there will be the concentrate review, the review of expenditure, for all Ministries. That is why I think we can convince the Greek people at the end of 2017. Such waste is not only waste for buildings, but there is also waste in how the orders are made for computers, how contracts are made with telephone companies, there is a range of waste that we need to consider. In particular, this will allow us to find resources for social expenditure and other priorities of the government and of the Greek society. I have told you on another occasion, I think we have discussed this, because the objectives of the lenders do not measure the so-called 'non-measurable measures'. So when they say about the objectives that we need to get 1.75% this year, 3.5%, what we gain from tax evasion or in this particular case from expenditure is a profit. So it's a gain for the government and more important than anything is a gain for society and the economy. So I say that your question is important and it is an example of a more general situation that we need to face. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-11-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after taking part in the "Worker of Democracy" educational programme organized by the Foundation of Parliament, seventeen students and students and two educational attendants from the 38th Municipal School of Peristeri. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We continue with the ninth under number 641/21-3-2017, a topical question by MP II Athens of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Finance, on the sale of the "National Insurance". Mr Katsotis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-11-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, first of all we would like to welcome, on the occasion of the debate, the workers of dozens of unions and pensioners, who have since the morning made a symbolic exclusion of the Ministry of Finance, thus expressing their wrath, their opposition and their decision to strengthen the struggles to overthrow this policy. The workers, the pensioners, the self-employed, the poor farmers have no other way to go from the unequivocal struggle against the new agreement - robbery, against the fourth memorandum, so that the new leap in their lives does not pass. "The measures and countermeasures break our lives, struggle, rupture, overthrow our only choice." That's what they've been calling, Minister, since this morning. We are therefore calling on the whole working class to participate universally on the 24-hour strike on 17 May and on any other trade union activity against the new agreement, which robs the people. Mr Minister, this question was tabled at the beginning of March. Until now, of course, its content has changed, because the process has proceeded with the sale of the "National Insurance". It is well known, since then, that much has been written for many funds that have manifested interest. It is said that on 4 April, interested parties submitted binding economic offers, which speak of four interested parties. Of course, the publications that have been in existence since then are quite relevant to the sale process of the "National Insurance" and the contribution here of the Greek State and the Government. The questions we have put to us, Minister, and they want answers are to tell us what the government is planning for the future of the "National Insurance" government, what measures the Government will take to sell the company in order to ensure the jobs and the working rights of the employees of the company and whether it will meet the legitimate demand of both the employees, through staff rental companies and all the employees of the external sales network for direct recruitment to the "National Insurance" so that they can better fight for their jobs. They are questions that workers expect your answers to this serious issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-11-S1-commons.u71	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-11-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, Mr President, again. This issue, as you know, has nothing to do with the memorandum, but it has to do with the recapitalisations of the banks, which the position of the Competition Directorate of the European Union is that once a bank gets state aid, it has an avading effect on its competitors, that is, it has an advantage. In this case, since 2014, i.e. before us, there has been a restructuring plan of the National Bank that had in it and the sale of the “National Insurance”. We considered that this was not a good plan, that the 'National Insurance' should not be sold. I have also sent a letter to Mrs Westager, where I explained, as the National Bank itself, why the National Bank is wrong to sell this subsidiary, and we were unable to convince the Competition Directorate of the European Union about the law of our request, neither we nor the National Bank. We, now, on the important issue of industrial relations, as you know, cannot take direct action. What I must tell you is that in this case I am not particularly concerned. You know, when someone buys a company, the two extreme cases are that you buy a company that's not going well, and you think that by restructuring you can better it - and that's where they are at risk of working and working - and the other case, the other end - and I say'street', because obviously there are also interim cases - they are those companies that are going very well and want one group to integrate them into their own design. The ‘National Insurance’ is a successful company. The workers, in other words, are part of the evidence that the buyer will want to last. It's not a failed business. It's gone very well. So I am not particularly concerned about having redundancies and restructuring in this case. Generally speaking, I am concerned about restructuring, and that is why the Greek Government has done a great deal of work on legislation, we have negotiated the return of collective agreements, precisely to strengthen the role of workers. More importantly, however, I think it is the role of the EPC, which is currently working in a very serious way, and you and the workers must recognise that lately and fines have fallen and have been made for the first time for so many years a substantial and significant intervention in labour relations, in order to protect workers and workers from redundancies which affect their interests.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-11-S1-commons.u73	Mr Katsotis, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-11-S1-commons.u74	Minister, has there really been significant intervention in the area of industrial relations, but in what direction? Unfortunately, the working jungle is on the way. It is well known, and "ERGANI", that recruitment is with fixed-term employment relationships, with rotating work, it is weakening or rather abolishing fixed and permanent work and in its place such workers are recruited. Here, in the "National Insurance", we have rented workers. You know that very well. They're rented by companies, rented workers, Minister. So what is it? Isn't that like a modern slave trade? This is a request for workers to be employees of the "National Insurance" and not to be rented, but this scheme is kept and continued by you. Minister, you as a government, as a party, as an opposition, have shared promises that you will prevent any sale of the "National Insurance" project and come today and complete this crime, as you described it at the time. You're making fun of the workers, too. They go to SYRIZA, tell them SYRIZA's secretary Mr. King that he disagrees radically with the sale and that he is doing a committee that will go to the administration of the EIB, he will meet with you, he will strive not to move the sale of the "National Insurance". It is a communication from the SYRIZA Prefectural Committee of the Financial Sector, when workers also go in the same direction and the Legal Committee deceives the workers of allegedly supporting the non-sale of the "National Insurance" and the maintenance of workers' rights. Tell me, Minister, a company which has been privatised and industrial relations have not deteriorated. Tell us a company that's been privatized and the workers are not fired. What do you promise the workers? That there will be no dismissal? But the private man will come and he won't make redundancies, won't he? Will it not reduce the price of the labour force, the so-called labour cost? That's what anyone in the first place does. In any case, we call on the workers not to be deceived, nor to rely on such commitments that have been made in the past, either the SYRIZA Secretary-General or the prefectural committee or what you are saying today about working relations and to fight together with a whole movement against this policy, which really breaks the lives of all the workers, the whole of the people, and it is not just the privatisations that are passing on to each other. In front of us we have the new memorandum that you will bring in a few days, if not today or tomorrow - when you will present it - which is where we will also see the completion of what you used to say about the EMSDDA, but now you will have it in, PPC and so on, beyond all the other measures that break the lives of the workers and the people. They are, of course, waiting for the workers' answers, but the answer will be given to the fight, to this line of break-up and overthrowing of this policy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-11-S1-commons.u75	Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-11-S1-commons.u76	What I would like to stress is that there is a significant difference in the level that we are and what the trend is. At the level we are, you are absolutely right that the industrial relations in Greece are in a very bad situation. After the Memorandum and before the Memorandum the trend of neoliberalism was to deregulation, it was to reduce the power of the workers. There is no disagreement on this. The question is whether the trend we see with the actions of the government is or is not in a good way. If you look at the latest elements of the 'ERGANI' that have come out now, not only do we have the best result, for many years now, in net jobs - that is what the 'ERGANI' is doing - how many people have been made redundant or how many recruits we have, what is the net figure - but there has been a large net number in favour of employment. The most important thing, however, in this respect is that too many positions - over 50% - were permanent and not opportune. So there is a situation that improves the phenomenon that you correctly described. That's the first. The second thing, however, concerns me a little more is that other issue is criticising and other issue is not recognising. I, in other words, put the issue of RCF, I put the question of the great fine we had recently in a large company, and I wanted you to welcome that. In other words, I would like you to welcome the fact that the EIA has been working in a different way over the past six to eight months than it was before and really has been working in the private sector to impose a little better working conditions. It is important to recognise this, with all the opportunity to criticise other issues. Finally, for the 'National Insurance' I think you understand that it is not our company so that we can do something. We must intervene in a specific context. The Competition Directorate of the European Union has this general rule, according to which a company that has received state aid must, in a way, be "prisoned" and lost some information, because otherwise it has an advantage. In this context, I think you are a little more pessimistic than you should be, because workers and workers in the 'National Insurance' are one of the reasons why the private sector is so interested, because it is very successful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-11-S1-commons.u77	How are they guaranteed?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-11-S1-commons.u78	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, ninety-seven students and students and two educational attendants from the 130th Municipal School of Athens. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, MP Mr Theocharis (Harris) Theocharis seeks a one-day absence abroad on 12 May 2017. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-11-S1-commons.u79	The House therefore approved the requested permission. We will continue with the eleventh cycle No. 696/4-2017 second time question by MP Kilkis of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Christou Hadjisavvas to the Minister of Finance, on 'Is the national economy ready for a possible collapse of the Eurozone?' Mr. Hajisavva, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-11-S1-commons.u80	Minister, it has been over a month since I first tabled this question. However, the developments with the fourth memorandum you have brought and the anti-grass measures make it even more timely. I would say that as long as the time goes, even after this memorandum, it will become ever more time-consuming, because the views of economic and state actors and bodies on the possible collapse of the euro area and also of the European Union itself are growing internationally. I am not only talking about enemies of the European Union, of America and of Europe, but even about 'BLOOMBERG', which I read three scenarios for the possible collapse of the Eurozone. Unfortunately, all three have Greece and they think it will be the country that will be most affected by all the others if the euro area collapses. The advent of this possibility will therefore have huge economic consequences throughout the world, but especially in Greece, and I ask you: With what action will Greece face a possible collapse of the Eurozone and how will it meet its immediate requirements in key energy, food and fuel sectors, given the balance, which has changed in relation to imports and exports over the last few decades? If the Eurozone and the European Union break down the next day on which strategic, economic axis will the national economy move and what resources will it draw its forces to survive and develop? Will it be written with the United States, will it go to Russia or perhaps a new Latin monetary union - economic union?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-11-S1-commons.u81	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-11-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, Mr President. The most honest answer to the question: "How much is the Greek Government ready for a Eurozone collapse?" is the same answer to the question: "How are all the economies of the European Union, the Eurozone, ready to deal with a dismantling of the Eurozone?". The answer is 'not too much', because the crisis will be very great, it will cause too many problems. Of course, every country - and Greece - has various plans for crises of this type from war to anything else you can imagine. However, because the consequences of a break-up of the euro area are very serious, we are struggling to save. I accept the assumption of your question that the Eurozone is in danger, that it is not going very well. This year the economies are going a little better, but this does not change the basic assumption in the question that the euro area is in danger. In my view, the Eurozone is in danger, precisely because it has not been serious about the problems of middle and lower classes for a long time. That is to say, it is a Europe that has a very large deficit in democracy, and it has a very large deficit in hearing these demands from workers and the middle classes, it does not incorporate them. And as long as there is a sense of these layers that they have paid for the crisis and will not be involved in any recovery, I think the Eurozone is very vulnerable. The good news is that this debate in Europe is now beginning. When I first entered the Eurogroup almost two years ago, these issues were not discussed at all. In other words, there were many and many who had their heads in the sand and thought that there was only a Greek issue, that there was only Grexit theme. Now, from what you can see, there is an intense debate with many differentiations. You would see Makron's idea of concentrating investment costs and a redistribution of what you're putting on and what you're getting in relation to the need, you'd see Germany's reactions and Sulch's support for this proposal. So I think the best preparation is to avoid this and to create the conditions for a Europe facing these problems that I have told you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-11-S1-commons.u83	Here, Mr. Hadjisavva, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-11-S1-commons.u84	Firstly, it is a bit strange to ask these questions to a left-wing government, and for decades we have had the same positions with regard to the euro area and the euro. These questions were mostly against right -wing governments. Ultimately, the left-wing wars of the euro area and the euro prove to be its best guardians and defenders. Of course, I am not talking about a possible scenario in which, as you are now saying, everyone will have a problem. I am talking about a scenario which is funded and divides Europe, Eurosceptics and Eurosceptics. I am not talking about a case where Greece will decide to leave the euro or who will decide to kick us out of the euro. I am talking about the case that Greece will want with the Memorandum Governments to stay in the euro zone, Europeans will want Greece in the euro, but one day there will be no euro. Now, however, the point is that this has happened before. In the past, there was the Latin monetary union, where France had imposed the franc. And at some point he realized he didn't go out and he didn't care about it, he left, letting Greece go bankrupt. If that happens right now, I cannot wait for you as Minister to tell me that you too have this concern, that we are not ready, that no one is ready. If there is a plan, I expect you to tell us, because we have now realised that this toughly locked parity with the euro serves only heavy industries such as Germany. What are they gonna do? Will they always open a greater hole in this sieve, which is economically draining all the popular layers? Will the tactics of Varoufakis and Lapavits continue? Whether you like it or not, they had the fate of Greece for several months on your government, who were talking about a national currency, a return to the drachma, but it was like playing a poker with open paper and bluffing above, because everyone in Europe knew that Greece was not ready for this, whether it was a voluntary departure or a collapse of the euro. Because if there is no primary sector, there cannot be independence, neither economic nor national. [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis, takes over the presidential office.]] If there is a plan, even small, even in your mind, you have to tell us, because the world cannot rely on everyone facing the same problem. I hoped at least, after two Memorandums of Your Government SYRIZA - ANEL and after so many anti-grass measures that have come, after divestment of public property, that you will understand that the memorials are not torn apart with either strings or bullies! If we are to be able to tear the memorials, we must finally understand that farmers will have to rebuild their land, that workers first have work but also human working conditions and that free professionals do not face a state - powered and persecuted, can open their shops and do not close them every day.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-11-S1-commons.u85	Minister, here you go, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-11-S1-commons.u86	I would like to make two comments, because I think I have responded to most of them, in the preparation we have made for various possible crises. The first comment is about Grexit. Our position and position as an economist is that, if a country - whatever country - leaves the Eurozone, the Eurozone will have a huge problem. And in order to understand that, one must understand what monetary union is, what the Eurozone is. Monetary union is an irrevocable promise that no country will underestimate. So it is not a system of fixed exchange rates, in which at any time a country can decide that it will be underestimated. Monetary union is different because it says it will never be underestimated. Once it is done, monetary union has become a system of fixed exchange rates and is therefore very vulnerable to crises. As you have suggested, in all previous crises, from the beginning of gold to various monetary unions in Latin America, every time there was a major crisis, the system of fixed exchange rates, such as the European monetary system in the 1990s, was vulnerable. That's why we're trying not to get there. You have referred to the wars of the European Union, which have now become the best supporters. I must tell you that I was never a warman of the European Union. I was always in a party that was pro-European. I am in favour of the euro area not being dissolved for many reasons, the main of which is that if the European Union is dispersed, it will not be the workers and workers, which I said before, who will not be the lower or medium-sized classes, that will be the forces of nationalism, extreme right-wing populism and that there will be a risk of returning back to the 1930s. I know that this is something you wish for and I think you will accept very well that I do not wish it at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-11-S1-commons.u87	We continue with the tenth under the number 773-27-2017 topical question of the second question of the Member of Parliament of the Union of Central Banks Mr.Ioannis Saridis to the Minister of Finance on the privatisation of the Greek Vehicle Industry (ELBO). Mr. Saridis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-11-S1-commons.u88	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, the Greek Vehicle Industry, despite its chronic economic problems, remains an important factor in national defence planning, both through the know-how and experience of human resources, and through the existence of advanced equipment and facilities, which belong to Greek hands. Recognising these, government officials and government actors in the two years that have passed they have assured that ELVO is planned to be cleared through its successful operation and not to be privatised. Then I ask you, Minister: what were the new parameters, which have been presented and overthrown government planning and are we going through at this stage, the privatisation of ELVO and the lowest initial price? Are the possible effects of the privatisation of this defence industry taken into account? How does your Ministry see it and how will it be ensured that the numerous human resources of the Hellenic Vehicle Industry will continue to provide its services to the new regime, which will arise? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-11-S1-commons.u89	Minister, here you go, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-11-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleague, ELVO's case has a long history. The previous governments had already specified the future of ELVO, on the one hand, through decades of mismanagement and on the other, setting the company, at the request of the Greek State, in a special liquidation regime in 2014, in the context of the implementation of the Memorandum of Understanding. The current government has been investigating all the alternative scenarios for the protection of workers. Despite our efforts, the situation that we received was essentially a one-way path to the continuation of procedures, as they were in 2014. However, government action was taken to continue to pay workers' wages, which was achieved. These actions include the regulation of financial outstandings between the company and the public. We proceeded to an out-of-court settlement for the defence department's debts to the company. We have taken the necessary steps to give ELVO an additional subsidy in order to keep the company alive. The responsibility of this government is to find the best solution for ELVO, in view of the interests and protection of workers within the framework of the national and European legal framework.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-11-S1-commons.u91	Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-11-S1-commons.u92	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, I did not ask this question to get votes. The votes bring them the results and not the intentions that politicians or governments can have. This is the sixth question which I ask not your Ministry, but the co-legislative ministries. Throughout the time I am a Member of the Greek Parliament, I have asked four questions and two topicals. I didn't make a difference with the Department of National Defence. I ask you the timely question, because I think that at this stage you were the most competent ministry to answer me. The concerns of workers have not been answered. The question I put to you in my prototype of whether the future of the workers is guaranteed has not been answered. Are we coming to this stage to tell me that your attempt has been exhausted to proceed with an extrajudicial compromise, or has the effort been exhausted to get paid? I recognise what you said. Yes, the responsibilities are those of the previous governments. But what do you do? What was the little bit you put on? What was the positive thing that you put on ELVO? That the workers were paid? Could the Greek State leave the workers unpaid? Oh, no. What is your next move, this more, expected by the Greek people, when you came to the government? You know what? Since June 2015, government actors, ministers and State Secretarys of the Ministry of National Defence - and I think you were also informed at the time - went out and said that a solution would be found for ELVO. Last July 2016, the Ministry of National Defence - and I do not think you will be ignorant - signed a ratification agreement with Norway. You don't know that? You may not know that. There the foundation could be established so that ELVO could reoperate. Nothing happened. Do you know what the government gives me, Minister? That the future of ELVO was predetermined and predetermined. I would like, please, very much, in your dentext to tell me how you ensure the future of these people, what your design is and how you guarantee it. Next week, on the occasion of another timely question, we will be coming back here and you and I will talk about the airports at 'FRAPORT'. If nothing else, what has to come out of this Chamber now and after so many hollow words are actions and truths. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-11-S1-commons.u93	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-11-S1-commons.u94	I'm not used to it, Mr. Colleague, saying hollow words. That is why I do not promise anything I cannot implement. I think that if this were done more often in decades, Greece would not be in this situation. I told you what we have tried to do all this time and what we will try to do from now on. Be sure to secure jobs in any such case is the first concern of this government. But the situation we received in ELVO was indeed a very difficult situation. So we don't say any hollow words. We are talking about projects like those we have tried to help workers and workers in ELVO. We are making a promise that we will do our best for the future of this company. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-11-S1-commons.u95	Ladies and gentlemen, we come to today's last topical question. The twelfth question, under number 782/2-5-2017, will be discussed at the second time by the Member of the Attica Parliament, Mr Georgios Vlachos, to the Minister of Finance, on the proposals - requests from the Mediterranean municipalities in view of the consultation on the renewal of the Athens International Airport Convention on "Eleftherios Venizelos" with the Greek State for the period 2025-2055. Here you go, Mr Vlavo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-11-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, we are discussing today the question that I submitted for the first time on the renewal of the Athens International Airport Convention "Eleftherios Venizelos" with the Greek State for the first time. As you know, with Law 2338/1995, the contract for the development of the new Athens airport was concluded for a contractual period of thirty years until 2025. It has been over twenty years, Minister, and we are now discussing the extension of the Convention, after entering the final straight, but with very serious issues, which are included in the existing convention, which have not yet been resolved. For example, compensation fees of 10% were provided from the use of the former Greek airport, which would be paid to the adjacent people by the new airport "Eleftherios Venizelos" municipalities in the wider Mediterranean region for development projects. To date, unfortunately, this provision has not been activated. In fact, during the recent debate on the agreement in Parliament on the exploitation of the former airport, I have proposed and invited the mayors of the Mediterranean region, who have highlighted the injustice and the insolvency of the state in this regard. Also, with regard to spatial planning, Minister, it is well known that Eleftherios Venizelos Airport has committed twenty thousand acres in addition to those it has exploited to date - we are talking about an area called the 'Restricted Airport Development Zone' - without any commitment on its part to what will happen. In other words, there are landlords who cannot sell it, as you can see, since they have no value - who can take it and why - they cannot use it themselves, of course. They're waiting when the airport will be able to expropriate them - if it clears them! - to make use of it. Let's go for thirty years. Isn't that a lot? Aren't these people supposed to be released? Shouldn't their hostage end? Isn't it unfair for this game to wait, like, when will the airport decide on the fate of their fortune? That's what we're talking about. I would like to raise another point, Mr Minister, which is about the TATs in the area, as the municipal fees for environmental, nuisance, traffic charges which have been incurred as a result of the operation of the airport have not been paid. I do not think that this mistake should be repeated. The area that the airport has accepted cannot be charged and cannot have the resources. I would say, on the occasion of the renewal of the agreement, that these issues should be put to the table, as should all the mayors of the region for the sake of the region and for harmonious cooperation.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-11-S1-commons.u97	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-11-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to thank Mr Vlavo for the question and for the understanding he has shown in the delay in the debate on a workload. Let me say that the main problem we have at this stage is that we have an extension of the contract - that is what we have been discussing and in the context of our Memorandum of Understanding - so the terms of the contract could not be changed. This is the main constraint in this debate at this stage. Because if we were to change the terms of the contract, another company would come and say I want to make an offer. Only if it's a simple extension, this excludes other investors from getting into the game. It should be noted that the TIAD has transferred responsibility for implementing the extension of the airport concession. Since mid-March the text of the extension has been approved by the Ministers for Finance and Transport. The airport normally pays the planned municipal taxes. With regard to the compensation fees, there are decisions of the St.A., which concludes that the airport is not obliged to pay compensation fees for cleaning and lighting, as these services ensure the airport itself. Recruitment and transit fees are required. However, this also needs special regulation, which cannot be the subject of the extension of the contract. Meetings have already taken place between the administration of HIDE and the mayors of the municipalities concerned. However, as mentioned earlier, the extension of the existing contract does not allow any intervention to be made. The GOI provided this information to the mayors. So we have questions that you put in relation to the contract and that cannot be resolved at the moment, precisely because I told you that they were related to the extension of the contract and not to a new privatisation. We also have other issues of medium-term strategic planning, which we need to discuss with these municipalities and the region.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-11-S1-commons.u99	Mr. Vlavo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-11-S1-commons.u100	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, there was certainly an understanding of the delay in the discussion due to a workload. It's right what you said. I said it myself, and I repeat it. I'm actually coming. The first point I raised, Mr Minister, is not about the contract. In other words, the compensation from the use of the "Greek" in the adjacent municipalities with "Eleftherios Venizelos" is not included in the contract. It was a matter of state when the airport would operate. So we say this. Today the airport of Greece is being exploited. The state, the government today, should undertake to carry out these development projects requested by the mayors of the region. So it's a matter of state of both the municipalities in the region and not the convention itself. We want to respect the commitment of the state, when, in order to become the airport in Mesogeia, we told the Mesogiites that when the Greek airport is exploited, one 10% will get it for development projects, not for anything else, but for very specific projects that the state will do and not the municipalities. That's what we failed. That's the mock. I'm coming to second. I told you that I have the information that there is inconsistency from the airport's point of view to municipal charges. This is something that can be cleared up and see where the truth is and where the excess is. However, there is also a big issue regarding the spatial issues of the wider region. I told you then that the contract provided, apart from the thousands of acres, the commitment to more than twenty thousand acres. It was then said, Minister, that in the future the airport probably needed another route. Today that the Olympic Games have passed, which tourism in Greece and Athens is at the top and it has been found that this area does not need, we say, to be released and given to their owners - who are taxed and paid for a property they do not control - or if the airport wants it, let it rid themselves of it, let it compensate the owners. The owners are not single losers. It's a big area. And we've been talking for thirty years, and we'll tell them that another thirty years you'll own the property, we'll tax you, it'll be yours, but you can't sell it or exploit it. Isn't it unfair? That's what I'm saying. If, gentlemen of the airport, you want it, take it, compensate it, get rid of it. We're done! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So, on the occasion of what I said, there are spatial issues in the wider area that we need to regulate. The government must take the initiative. There are archaeological sites. There are signs of primary production, which are of archaeological and development interest. That's what we want to show up in our area. We don't want it to be just the airport of charge and infection. We want it to be also an area, an area of development and incentives for the wider region. The fact that the convention is being revised, for us who live there, is the opportunity to raise these issues on the table. I would therefore say, Mr Minister, that you should take the initiative, set up a working committee in which the representatives of the municipalities around the airport and any other body you think will be able to see and try to find fair solutions there. In any case, local communities are asking for very reasonable things and are cooperative, which is a given one. He must not be left to his luck. Because that is how you know, I would be disturbed - if you like - to repeat the phenomenon of Laliotis, which then in order to sign this agreement, he came, he did, he forgot, he disappeared. So I do not want this to happen again. It will also be unfair for you personally, on your day, to revise the contract and become a second Laliotis, that is to say, on your day there will be an agreement binding on the region, so that your name will be negatively linked for thirty years. It is very time and great issues, while we believe that with a little good mood some of them - I am not saying all of them, perhaps all of them, but some of them - we can easily solve them. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-11-S1-commons.u101	Minister, at least you can't get them rid of HNPH until he's done for what happens to these twenty thousand acres? That is, indeed, very unfair.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-11-S1-commons.u102	I see I have two fronts on this question. The main problem we have is that the Law on "Eleftherios Venizelos", the Convention, the Law of 1995, provided that in the area of the former Greek airport, a management body would be set up for metropolitan green zone. 10% of the company's revenue would be distributed to the municipalities of the Mediterranean, Spata, Markopoulos etc., to help develop them as compensatory benefits for the creation of "Eleftherios Venizelos". That's never happened. Now what residents ask...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-11-S1-commons.u103	These people are asking...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-11-S1-commons.u104	Yes, as far as the requests are concerned...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-11-S1-commons.u105	Yes, but for your day the contract was signed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-11-S1-commons.u106	Please, Mr. Vlavo, don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-11-S1-commons.u107	No. Intervention is not a bad option.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-11-S1-commons.u108	Just to form image. That's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-11-S1-commons.u109	No, I have no problem, Mr President. In the demands of the municipalities, it is also the creation of a local development agency. This cannot be done through the contract. I think that's what you said. Therefore, legislative initiative is needed, which will define all the characteristics, including the source of resources and the way they are made available. I think what you're suggesting we can see. It is also a matter of the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of the Environment. Let's see this and come back when I've thought about your proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-11-S1-commons.u110	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the second with number 798/5-2017 a top-level question from the New Democracy MP Kilkis Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgiodas to the Minister for Administrative Reconstruction, concerning the restriction of recruitment to all bodies and legal persons in central government, will not be discussed due to a workload of the relevant Minister and will be redefined for discussion. The fourth under number 800/5-5-2017 topical question by Evia MEP - Golden Dawn Mr.Nikolaos Michou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "The installation of two hundred nine new wind turbines in southern Karusia Evia threatens biodiversity and economy", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of the Environment and Energy, Mr. Famelou, and will be redefined for discussion. The fifth, under number 804/8-5-2017, top-level question by the Member of Parliament, Lesvos, of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Stavros Tassos, to the Minister for Environment and Energy, on the operation and development of the Institute for Geological and Mining Research (IGME), will not be discussed due to a workload of Mr Stathakis. Also the second question under number 799/5-2017, the second question of the second question by MP Florina, New Democracy, Ioannis Antoniadis, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "The significant delays in the relocation of the relocation of the settlement of Florina Prefecture, which put the lives of its residents at risk", will not be discussed due to a workload of Mr. Stathakis. The seventh question under number 623/20-3-2017, the second question of the new Republic MP Evros, Anastasios Prussias, to the Minister of Health, concerning the tragic deficiencies at the Dumos Hospital, leading to a shrinking, depreciation and degradation, will not be discussed due to the obstruction of the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Paul Polakis, on the grounds of: workload. The fourth question under number 795/3-5-2017 is the first question of the Halkidiki MP of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr.Saving Vlachos to the Minister of Health, about the shortcomings of ambulances in the Halkidiki Prefecture that endanger the lives of citizens, will not be discussed due to the obstruction of the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Paul Polakis, on the grounds of: workload. Also, the eighth Question No 645/24-3-2017 by MP Halkidiki of the New Democracy Mr. Georgios Vagionas to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the problems facing the bakers industry in Greece, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Economy and Development, Alexandros Haritsis, who is outside Athens. Finally, the first question under number 801/8-5-2017 of the Member of the Dodecanese Coalition of the Radical Left, Ilia Kamaterou, to the Minister of Finance, concerning the OPAP contract with the agents, will not be discussed after consultation of the Minister with the MP. For all these reasons, there is also a letter from the Secretary of the Government. The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, on this point do you agree to resolve the meeting?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-11-S1-commons.u111	With the consent of the House at 12.02 hours the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday, May 12, 2017, and 10.00 minutes at the sitting of the House: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
