ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We wish the Bureau a great deal of time for our commemorative colleagues and those of the workers, journalists and policemen in this House to celebrate. [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 25-10-2017, its PRACTICAL PRACULES' minutes were confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau, of Wednesday, 25 October 2017, as regards the vote on the entire draft law: ‘Consolidations on careers and development of executives and financial care and accounting of the Armed Forces, setting up a Joint College of Financial Inspectors and other provisions’.]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, before we enter the topical and urgent questions debate, I have the honour of announcing the topical and urgent debate on Friday 27 October 2017. Oral question to the Prime Minister (Rule 129(2) and (3) and Rule 132(1) of the Rules of Procedure) The 137/23-10-2017 topical question by the President of the Potamian Parliamentary Group and MP Mr Stavros Theodorakis to the Prime Minister, on "What compensation has the Greek Government obtained for Souda and the upgrading of aircraft F-16 from the United States?".
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS According to a letter sent to us by the Secretary of State, four topical questions will be discussed, three of which will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, Mr Mavraganis, and one by the Deputy Minister of Interior, Mr Nikolaos Toskas. The fourth, under number 102/20-10-2017, topical question for the first time in the H' Vice-President of the Parliament and MP 2' Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Culture and Sports, on archaeological delays and the loss of revenue in the Metro of Thessaloniki, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the honourable Member. So we begin, with the first with number 107/23-10-2017, a timely question for the first cycle of the MP Kosanis of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Ioannis Theosconservatou to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Creating sites for local products at the Automotive Service Stations (S.A.).(')'. Here, Mr. Hostguard, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Undersecretary, it is undeniable that the integration and delivery of motorway traffic across the country is an important achievement of the government. That is what all the citizens are saying. In fact, let us say that they were also made with public gain, as Minister Spirtzis - and all his staff together - renegotiated them and won 700 million and completed them in two years' time. Of these, 40% had been done in ten years and we, in two years, completed 60%. I was at the inauguration of both the Greek Episcopal and Tempus, because Western Macedonia, in fact, is concerned with these streets and they are pulling it out of isolation. I know them and watch them, as do all the citizens. This contributes to the safer and faster movement of all of us. On the other hand, however, it also has some other thing, which we need to see how we deal with them. The other thing is that local enterprises and local producers are isolated. From the old provincial streets, the driver stopped, bought products, and so was a trade, and the producer could promote his products and the businessman himself. Now and for the driver it's hard, he won't stop, because he's leaving the new road fast and safely and won't go into town to buy products. This isolation, the distance between the driver, who is a consumer in these cases, and the businessman, must find a way to deal with it. I think that existing ACEs are not enough to serve this distance that exists, to bypass it and to bring the driver closer to the producer, to the businessman. In my opinion, it is necessary to find a way to ensure that local VEEs or in cooperation have separate locations, pavilions or whatever they will expose their local products. This will also make it easier for the driver and will also give him an incentive to know both the products and the areas from which he passes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u5	Mr. Mavraani, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, Mr President, I would like to thank you very much for the question. It is indeed in the spirit of the social economy and must certainly be one of the arms of social and economic development of the country and of our own policy. It is clear that when there is a new stratification of the country's road network, for the benefit of both transport and transport and safety, new conditions are created. These new conditions obviously also have some negative impact on the already shaped markets in the past, which were used to be around some roads that now have less traffic burden. It is a pity that the Finance and Development Ministry's bill on rural trade is currently entering the parliamentary process, whether this is a stagnation, whether it is a planetary one, or consumer markets. So I would say that this idea of yours, which me and the Ministry finds us in agreement, should be submitted at the same time to the committee for the drafting of this bill, so that there can be a provision from there as well. If assistance from the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure is needed, there will be a provision in Articles 36 to 40, where it speaks precisely of these types of outdoor trade. I would like to tell you that especially for the Kosani Prefecture and the Egnatia Road, there is a provision in the Egnatia Road regulation - it is Article 13(1) - precisely for products of local interest. There, as in other regulations of the AAR, i.e. the automobile service stations, it is possible to contact the local players, the chamber, the district, the municipalities, but there must also be a provision that is more specific than this bill, which is being discussed - I repeat - in the Committee on Production and Trade, so that one provision, which is contractual, is laid down by law in this draft law. We are, however, positive on your idea.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u7	Mr. Sanctuary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u8	Thank you very much for the answer, Minister. I also thank you for the positive attitude you and the Ministry of Infrastructure you represent, the thought and the idea that will now serve a group of fellow citizens and part of our society, which we all know - and the Prime Minister has often mentioned in his speeches and the entire government - that we must deal with it, namely the business piece, with the professionals. We know they're running. They have been particularly affected in previous years and it is their time. We have to deal with them. We need to find outlets to create growth. We must make things easier so that producers, businessmen, can make more turnover and can also promote their products. In fact, we always have to link it to tourism, that is to say, having so many million tourists. I don't forget the Greek counterpart who's a member of the Australian parliament who came here and talked to us. He said you should see them as visitors. A whole national product can and must stand on it. Otherwise, he is also the visitor - tourist, when he passes through the very modern roads that were built and he will say "I will get local products here". That's right. You mentioned my county. It is a pity that already exists in Egnatia that such a contractual obligation exists. I will also personally deal with this and promote local products, such as Pollution Potatoes, Kosanis, mushrooms, legumes, etc. This can be done on all the roads. You quite rightly said that today is a happy time when the debate in the committee immediately begins. I'm a member of the committee. In fact, the bill links the rules on outdoor trade - public markets with chambers. I should like to inform you and the House that I have discussed it orally and with President GSEVA, Mr Kavvatha, who also sees it very positively. I think it's something that can go ahead. I imagine the Minister for Economy and Development will not object either. It is something that will bring us back together not only with Greek drivers, but also with foreigners, and will create additional turnover to the members of the EBE, which is something we are all asking for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u9	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u10	I will be brief, Mr President. I'm totally in agreement. I just want to be careful, when we create these new markets on these axes, that there should be no blockades, that there should be no slightest suspicion of cartel creation. That is why the Ministry of Economy and Development must be assisted with the good, harmonious and equal rules in all directions it puts on the people's markets or on the countryside, either in stagnation or in mobile outdoor trade. If the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure is to be helped, since it concerns us on roads, we will be in agreement. Let me just remind you that the concessionaires throughout Greece have certain contractual obligations, which come from the past from other governments and from other political situations. I am not sure there is the same obligation provided for in the concessionaire 'Eventia Street'. We will see this if it is a matter of negotiation, with regard to ad hoc, in each case of concessionaires.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u11	Because of the metro strike there is traffic congestion and some colleagues are trapped. That's why we're leaving the second question, which was Mr. Augiakis, alerted him to coming, he's locked up - and we're going to the next one. The first question, then, under number 110/23-10-10-2017, will be discussed in the context of a topical question from the Member of Parliament, Evros, New Democracy, Anastasios Purchasias, Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, on the resumption of the operation of the passenger railway station of Pythios - Evros. Mr. Treasury, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Secretary, the entrance-out points of the Gardens and Castanes of the Prefecture of Evros in relation to the neighbouring country are malfunctioning. The traffic is increased both in persons and in vehicles and in things. Sadly, however, because of a malfunction, as I said before, we have a treasury of traffic and do not have a rapid service for all those moving through the two points of the Evros Prefecture. In 1874 the Paris - Constantinople railway line, part of which was part of the Thessaloniki - Alexandroupolis - Dymotecho - Pythrio - Long Bridge - Istanbul, operated. The railway entry-exit point between Greece and Turkey is Pythio and it has also been included in the Schengen Agreement, because it is the only entry-out point for the European Union to the East and respectively. In 2011, the transport of persons has been stopped and more than a certain number of goods are being transported. The reduction of staff and services at this station caused depreciation of the transport which led to an economic stagnation, and Pythios and the Dumotik, as well as the whole of Evros, because of this problem. Significant deficiencies are presented in the infrastructure, as far as the station is concerned, and anti-military armour is also needed. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Our neighbours have moved faster than we have and have made a request to restart this line and these routes. I want you to tell us: are you considering Turkey's request? Have you gone to discussions? Are you thinking of renovating the unrelenting historical and architectural good buildings of the Pythio railway station and what steps are you going to take to get the anti-military shield of all the installations of the station? Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u13	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you for your question. You give me the opportunity to refer to a recent excellent, national success, the signing of a G2G agreement, namely an inter-national agreement between Greece and Bulgaria, signed in September 2017 by the Greek Prime Minister and the Bulgarian Prime Minister, which includes the geopolitical upgrading of the country through the railway interconnection of Alexandroupolis with three important cities - and that is the case with all of Central Europe - Bulgaria. Who are these? Varna, Burgas and Rousse, and we reach the Danube. This will become Alexandroupolis, Pythio, Ormene and from there. So Pythio is now a focus, it is a focus of the government's predictions, it is a focus of the government's railway and transport forecasts. Obviously, the inhabitants of the prefecture and of the wider region, which you represent, must be happy, because precisely, without any provision from the past, we felt that this prefecture is a cornerstone for Greece, a cornerstone for Europe - I agree with you - and this prefecture needs to be resurrected, as with him the geopolitical importance of south-eastern Europe and Greece will be raised. In the context of this, therefore, this piece of Alexandroupolis - Pythio - Ormene railway is one of the four proposals submitted to the Juncker branch in order to obtain funding. I believe that it will be one of those proposals that will be of particular interest to be financed, and that this very important project will now go ahead for the national aspect of Greece, the geopolitical aspect of Greece and the Pythio will be at the heart of it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u15	Here you go, Mr. Publics. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Undersecretary, the line Alexandroupolis - Ormenio and its intermediate station, which is Pythio, has been renovated. The line of Pythios - Makras, Bridge - Raidestos - Kallipolis - Istanbul has been completely modernised by the neighbouring state. Right now we have tails to the Gardens and even more in the summer months. Same in the Castanes. I am talking about an alternative to the problems, which are observed at both points of entry and exit, because at some point those who want to come home will look for other roads. And the state should prepare itself to deal with this trafficking either with persons or things with vehicles of all kinds. We also have a new Egnatia, a highway, Mr. President, from the Gardens to Igoumenitsa. It's the only highway that's not used. And what I mean is that it is the only motorway in Europe, which does not really have a road load on lyrics. Why? Why does the exit points not work, because it does not operate the Pythios - Dumotich to Constantinople, so that para - Egnatia is strengthened from the point of Adrianopolis, Captain Andreev to the side of Central Europe. So we want you to tell us in particular: will you resurrect this rail link with the neighbouring country and, above all, with regard to Istanbul? Why do we say that? They ask people, instead of coming by road with their families and their vehicles, to come by rail. There are wagons specially designed to load one's car through ramps and directly with the luxurious coupes to reach its destination: Alexandroupolis, Kavala, Thessaloniki. I mean, we're losing customers. Do we want them, yes or no? And to keep them in our country, we should make things easier. We want progress and development of the county. And we want you to move in this direction to help. Soon the demands from the institutions and the authorities of the county will be pressing. Are you ready to deal with the problem? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u17	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to remind you that the Pythios passenger line to Istanbul has stopped operating after 2010. And it did not stop working because TRAINOSE or OSE decided suddenly to stop its operation. She stopped because there was no demand. I would also like to remind you, as the services state - and I shall submit the documents in the Minutes - by the OSE and by the 'ERGOSE' that there has been no request so far either from local bodies or from institutions of the Turkish Government. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister, Nikolaos Mavraganis, submits for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] However, I would like to deserve you one piece: indeed, it would be good, if you would like my personal view, to create an alternative to Istanbul's road access to Alexandroupolis and from there to Thessaloniki. But this is a transnational agreement. And, as you can see, one state cannot function unilaterally in the transnational agreements. The agreement must come after a working and concluding grouping, the conclusion of which will ultimately be drawn up by the signing of this Convention. And we also need Turkey's consent. So what did we do? We set up a working party. In fact, I will inform you that next month, in November, we will have the next meeting - we have already held one - two meetings - with Turkey. One of the issues we have raised and raised is the overall interconnection between Istanbul and Thessaloniki with a modern network. For our part, we put this under the umbrella of the so-called Egnatia railroad, and of course we have tabled a proposal to the Junker financial branch so that it can be financed. This, however, is under the auspices of the overall transnational agreement between Greece and Turkey, which I think is on the right track. We have raised this issue. Turkey has put it in place as well and we need to see it as a whole between Istanbul and Thessaloniki - and for historical reasons and cultural reasons, on the other hand, to have an alternative to traveling passengers, not just goods transport, to Thessaloniki or from Thessaloniki to Istanbul. There must definitely be this provision for the future. I think that the transnational agreement will include and we will convince our Turkish friends that it is also in their interest to have this modernisation and to present the proposal as a whole, as we imagine it, in the context of the Egnatia railway.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u19	Until Mr. Aygeakis, who has been delayed, comes to the third with number 151/24-10-2017, a topical question for the first cycle of MP II Athens of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Christos Katsotis to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Recognizing the profession of firefighters as heavy and unhealthy and dangerous, and taking protective measures during the incidents." Mr Katsotis' timely question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for the Interior, Mr Nikolaos Toskas. Mr Kattotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the question of recognizing the profession of firefighters as heavy, unhealthy and dangerous is not the first time that we have put it as a JRC. It is one of the important demands of the staff of the Fire Corps, which many governments have been claiming for years now. The personnel of the Fire Corps are making great efforts every day, working under adverse conditions, to protect the life, the property of the people, the forest wealth. It is known that these efforts are intensified in the anti-nuclear period, since they are called on, among other things, to protect the country's forest wealth, which, due to the policies implemented by all governments, is literally coal every year, thousands of acres of forests and forest land. The working conditions of fire extinguishers are getting tougher and this is due to the lack of permanent staff, which is being made every year more and more responsible for all the current governments. Intensification is known to be going to the ghetto, often overcoming human boundaries and endurances. The result is their psychological and physical stress, with serious consequences for their health and physical integrity. Since 1998, 35 deaths have been recorded, 19 permanent fire extinguishers, 3 five-year obligation fire extinguishers, 12 seasonal fire extinguishers and 1 volunteer. This is a consequence of the intense rate of intensification imposed on existing staff, in order to cope with more than double the amount of responsibilities and duties, but without the necessary means and education. The refusal of all previous governments, as well as of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, to protect the health and safety of firefighters, has resulted in, according to and according to trade union announcements, in intensification of the phenomena of the fireworks, serious diseases such as heart disease, malignancies, various forms of hepatitis, musculoskeletal injuries and a number of other diseases, a consequence of chronic contact with infectious agents and the permanent existence of professional stress. However, the profession of firefighter is not recognized as heavy, dangerous and unhealthy. With government wishes, thanks and strikes on the back of fire extinguishers, the difficulties and problems of their profession are not addressed. All the above proves that it is fair to request the staff of the Fire Corps to recognize the occupation as heavy, unhealthy and dangerous. We ask you whether the government intends to recognise immediately the profession of firefighters as heavy, unhealthy and dangerous and to introduce the Presidential Decree on the health and safety of personnel in the operational arm. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u21	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Katsotis, you raised two issues. On the question of the operation of the Fire Corps, you mentioned that there is an anti-African policy and that too many areas become coal every year. I'm using your words. I would like to inform you that the Fire Corps has shown particular zeal and particular effectiveness and the previous anti-missile period, which ended with the end of October. The results despite the voices, the impressions created by various media, according to the statistics of the Fire Service, are satisfactory. Over the last ten years we have one of the fewest burnt areas and we have the least burnt acres per fire. In other words, many fires, but in every fire a few acres, which means timely intervention, quick intervention and good efficiency of fire-fighting forces to deal with fires. Unfortunately, we cannot neutralize the phenomenon and the disasters. You have seen what has happened over the past few months and what is happening almost until these days and in other southern European countries. You saw the major disasters, the many victims between firefighters in other countries. I believe in this part, despite our regret at the continuing catastrophes and there have been efficiency in the Firehouse. This is also the result of the self-sufficient sacrifice of the personnel of the Fire Corps, which many times by old means, not the means that they should have had with old fire-fighting planes, those in the early 1970s, brought the results I mentioned earlier. Now, as regards the occupational status of firefighters as heavy, unhealthy and dangerous, you should know that they do not fall under the regime of heavy and unhealthy professions, those who are insured for their insurance by the provisions applicable to civil servants, a code of civil and military pensions, or specific provisions referring to them, such as those of firefighters governed by public pension legislation. Especially for the Fire Corps, which belongs to the Security Body, pay is fixed by a special salary. As a result, their protection against occupational risks has already been provided for through the special wage scheme to which they belong. This does not mean that these people do not practice a dangerous occupation. These, however, have been the predictions of the state for several years now when it comes to covering the risk of their jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u23	MP Mr Theodoros Fortsakis seeks permission from abroad from November 2th to November 7th 2017 for participation in a scientific conference. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u24	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Mr Kattotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you have consumed a large part of your protology in the operation of the Fire Corps. We did not say that there was no self-sacrificing of fire extinguishers, that there was no effectiveness in their work. It may be the statistics that you say, but also a set of forests burning is very important. They are all called upon by these means, as you said, to save property and lives of people at risk of their lives. In our question, we have mentioned the many deaths we have had, the dangerous work of this Fire Corps, and you have exceeded it by the special salary and everything that the Fire Corps governs. We say that this is not enough. That is why the demand for fire extinguishers, which we show to be dangerous to their profession as heavy and unhealthy. Of course, this will have economic consequences but also the age limits and everything that the government needs to see before it so that it can meet vital needs of these workers in the firehouse, because, as we have said, it is working under very difficult conditions. No Greeks today, no one in this country describes this profession as a profession like everything else. Everyone says it's dangerous. They say: "He was thrown into the fire." Here we have these victims, as I said, thirty-five dead from 1998 to today. Of course, the others who do not seem, who are not dead but have occupational diseases, are even more, Minister. Of course, so far no statistic has been made in the Fire Corps about what occupational diseases affecting firefighters are. What is it that - if you want - destroys his health and what measures have to be taken about them? Measures to date have not been taken. That is why the question we have asked you is this: the protection measures of the Fire Corps, which should be taken. There is a specific study, the firefighters have submitted it to you, to the Ministry to become a presidential decree so that there is indeed all these conditions of protecting the life of the Firehouse itself. So we are not satisfied with the answer. We believe that the government should see the qualification of this profession as heavy, unhealthy and dangerous. Apart from that, we must also take protection measures through the presidential decree requested by the workers, measures specifically to protect the lives of the workers themselves in the Fire Corps.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u26	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u27	Mr Kattotis, on many of the points you have raised, I shall agree. Because they really need support, these people who, in very short time, have particular stress in their work, with everything that has to do with physical and mental health. That is why we recently set up the mental care office so that on a twenty-fourth basis it can provide psychological support to both active and retired firefighters. That's why we also did the cooperation with the Ministry of Defence and the Aviation Hospital so that firefighters can get better care. That is why we gave them this year and they were wearing all the prescribed uniforms, which has been pending for years. There are too many other issues which need to be addressed and which we must resolve in a body that, as I have said and with a lot of hard words, there are problems, but these problems have nothing to do with the self-sacrificing of the staff of the body. The President-in-Office's decree you mentioned and which should really have come out of is his pension and he will have come out by the end of the year. There are many problems. We've covered a number of issues. There may be more to be left, but you see that perhaps our main priority right now in the Ministry is to cover the problems of the Firehouse and to harmonize it with the functions of other European countries and other modern states and the needs that exist. Unfortunately, climate change is not the case but the fact that the next few years will be easy. We therefore pay particular attention to these people and to these budgetary conditions which we are striving to solve various problems. Apart from the question of characterising the profession as heavy and unhealthy, on many other issues that I would agree with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u28	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition by the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how this House is organised and operated, seven members of a group of foreign teachers. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We go to the detained second with number 109/23-10-2017 a timely question for the first time by the MP of Heraklion, New Democracy, Eleftherios Aygenakis, to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Creating new public works - weakening the Road Axis of Crete (OAK) - to the best of public works on Crete". Thank you to Mr. Mavraani for waiting. Mr. Ignace, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I am amazed to see that Mr. Spirtzis did not come to answer today despite yesterday's assurances that my partner had given my partner. I hope, therefore, that something substantial will come out of the question I have tabled and I will shortly ask you for your reply. Minister, the new organization of your Ministry has created a confusion and a great excitement which creates special public works services as decentralized regional services of the Ministry at the level of sub-projects. In particular, in Crete, in order to be more specific, the creation of the EEAE Crete and Dodecanese based in Heraklion is envisaged. This, at least, is what we are known to us in the sector and also from the region is causing major problems. You ignore that in Crete there is and functions the Development Agency of Crete, OAS SA, who runs and should run at a much higher rate of major development projects. We founded the OAS in 2013 - I recall - in an attempt to rationalise the administration and the execution of public works. Also, I would remind you that we merged with OASYK, OANAK, NWO BOAK and Apostelemi. I would remind you that the OAS model is an innovative approach to public administration which takes into account the development potential and specificities of our island. Alongside the new Agency, you are asking - as you at least describe - for other structures, other services and other jobs to be created. In other words, issues of overlapping and competence, not only between the newly established EKO Crete, Dodecanese and OAS, but also with other services, the Directorate of Technical Works and Services of the Region of Crete, the Directorate of Technical Works of the Regional Unit of Crete and the Technical Services Directorate of the Municipalities. For us in the New Democracy, the Agency for the Development of Crete is important for the development of our island and can become the head of the spear if properly exploited. Minister, you create new public services, increase bureaucracy, overlapping, complexity in the public sector. You give the impression that you are creating new jobs, trying to serve your client's occupation and to help 'loopers'. You choose the giantism of the public and the creation of services, instead of simplifying procedures, reducing bureaucracy, supporting development. You choose the promise of fruitfruits, instead of speeding up the development projects of Crete. You are trying to cover the inertia and inability of the government by creating new agencies and services. So I ask you, Minister: what is the feasibility of creating new decentralised public works by the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure? What is the need at the end of Crete, given the functioning of the Crete Development Agency? What is the government's planning to get out of the end of the last three years almost all major development projects on our island? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u30	Thank you. Mr. Mavraani, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr President. I just want to refresh the memory of everyone in this Chamber and the Member States listening through this frequency. On August 29, 2014 – Signature Kyriakos Mitsotakis, Minister for Administrative Reform and Electronic Governance – join the Presidential Decree 109 EEE throughout Greece. So the EESC, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Papoutsis - and this is something you should know about - since 29 August 2014 is an administrative reality. One wonders: Why is it an administrative reality? Because we want to cancel the OK, or because the Ministry wants to be centralised on the one hand, but on the other hand with economies of scale that will arrive on the ground, for the government - each government, today and next - in the near future, in the face of problems and in the vicinity of each and every one of them, in order to supervise and manage the projects important only and specific - has the EEAS created for the important and specific - as it says - because it is not a new reality - the n.679/77, with which the EEAS has been formed, since 1977? Therefore, this was necessary in the Greek administrative reality, because where high-cost projects encountered certain interests, perhaps the supervisor should be closer. You spoke about the PPPs, the technical services, i.e. the old prefectures and now the regions, which lend staff to supervision. They lend, because the Ministry doesn't. They lend the municipalities, because the municipalities often don't. Right now what are we talking about? We say that the administrative mechanism of the state may be next to the problems, oversee local projects, disguise them and manage them. What plays? Just the important stuff. Here, Mr Papoutsis, you must be interested in the northern axis of Crete. You give me the opportunity to tell you, that we include in our predictions a project of EUR 1.3 billion to EUR 1.6 billion, which includes a hundred and six miles of road, linking up the previous studies - which were uncentered studies - with a common definition. There had never been provision to align these rafts, because there was never real provision to perform the works, because forty years you had executed forty - two kilometers, a mile a year. It's not a good performance for the oldly installed political system. Forty years two miles! So don't look for any of the obscurities of the OAS. In my dentext I will tell you about the further strengthening of the OAS in other directions and of smaller projects, and of course not for the projects of billions, because it does not even have the technical potential to support them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u32	Here, Mr. Ausgeakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u33	I'll try to keep my breath to listen with interest to dentology and what you're really keeping us as a surprise. However, by invoking Mr Mitsotakis as Minister of Administrative Reform, I would really like you to follow all the work he had done and had begun to implement in this Ministry and not an initiative that, of course, you are disconnecting it from a number of other events and initiatives that had already been launched since then and that you should, if you really believed in a modern and effective Greece, continue. You made a description, and you said about economies of scale that only you understood, Minister. Give solutions to projects and do not try to cover your nonexistent work by creating new bureaucracy. The Agency, with its first administration, has shown that it achieves savings in resources, Minister, and reduce bureaucracy in relation to the previous operating model, while at the same time producing more work and can much more. After reaping the organization, your government is attempting to remove the most essential responsibility, the one concerning the BOAK, the North Road. And I'm glad you referred to this. So, since you mentioned dates and statements, I would remind you of some statements which will certainly not be pleasant to you at all, Minister. On January 14, 2016, in the Region of Crete, Mr. Spirtzis, who is absent from the Chamber today, said: "We have a comprehensive design as a government to find backwards for motorways. This provides for the non-privateisation and better utilization of public works.' On 11 November, at the Inter-Governmental Committee, Mr Spirtz said: 'The work of the BOAK will be carried out through the financing of the European Investment Bank and at the same time private equity participation'. On May 18, 2017, Mr. Des, your Secretary-General, stated: "The work of the BOAK must be done with a availability clause - I repeat - which means that the state will pay every year the percentage to be specified to the contractor who will take the project. The question for us is not to pay the citizen." And there are also some other beautiful, relaxed, pleasant statements made by Mr Stathakis, who, of course, ended up in something vague and unresolved. And recently, on September 21st, during the Third Development Conference of Crete, Mr. Tsipras said that he does not want concessions for the BOAK and that other ways will be considered to prevent the Cretans from being imposed. A few weeks later you disguise - as you are used to, that is, yourself. And now you're doing the same thing. Following the same successful recipe, from where you were talking about a tollless BOOK, and you were attacking all possible, now, please, polling, trying to bring the topic around the table. So what's the matter? What are you planning on doing? Is there going to be tolls in the BOAK? Is there a complete plan? What exactly does the government want to do? Minister, you mislead the world. I don't know if you're doing this because of the wrong evidence or if there's a point. However, you are misleading and do not mention the real sport of the OAS to complete the great plumbing work of the Apostelemi Dam, that is to say, fourteen million cubic water in Heraklion, Hersonissos and Agios Nikolaos, when at the same time - to mention these - the "brothers" in Patras and Rhodes are still non-productive. Minister, what is your position on the future of the project? What about the Hydraulic Works Directorate and a number of other events and initiatives that operate within the Eastern Crete Development Organisation?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u34	Mr Nikolaos Mavraganis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u35	Let me begin with what you last touched, the management of water in Crete. As you know - if you do not know, let me inform you - water balances have no counties. The first counties of the country to obtain water balances will be the counties of Crete. Why? Because it was already agreed between a region and an OAS that the exclusive water manager of Crete would be the OAS. We have already granted EUR 800 000 to the OAS - and this is a news and thank you very much for giving me the opportunity to say it - to complete and prepare a study on water management and, finally, to obtain water balances in Crete. For those who do not know, no water management work can be done unless there are water balances, in accordance with the latest decisions of the Council of State. Let's go down. BOAK: We want to make him BOAK. Unfortunately, the former regime, which had been established in Greece for many decades, did not want to make it. And I proved to you why he didn't want to do it. For forty years he had done forty miles. One of the prisoners. Two: What were these miles? It was the bypasses of the great cities of Crete alone. The connections never had a single form. To understand the world, "project" means that I have to do a study with a single design. If I don't do one of those single drawings, and one of them is in the north, and the other is in the south, the other is paradoxical, which means I don't want to do them, and I'm just doing studies to make some money. So this ends. The work will be done and will be auctioned. 'When?' is the question. We are completing the single studies - we have hired a technical and legal consultant - for straightline engraving from Chania to Agios Nikolaos until the first half of 2018. The auction is planned to take place in the first half - toward the end - of this - of 2018.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u36	With what model?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u37	Finally, the BOAK will deal with a single study and a single project.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u38	With what funding model, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u39	Because you're nervous...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u40	I'm sure we do.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u41	...and because you, your resignation along with PASOK, were the ones who committed for many years Greece to concessions, which were subordinate...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u42	On this subject. We should hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u43	So I tell you, to close it, that the model will be financially balanced. We are looking to find solutions of this kind that do not affect the inhabitants of Crete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u44	Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, since they have previously participated in the educational program "Worker of the Republic" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, fifteen students and students and two educational attendants from the 41st Municipal School of Athens. The House welcomes them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u45	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: "Preparation of the Memorandum of Understanding and the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the United States of America on the improvement of international tax compliance and the application of the Tax Compliance Act (FATCA) and the Authority Agreement and implementing provisions". The draft was adopted by a majority in the Standing Committee. It is introduced to be discussed in accordance with Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure, that is to say, those who object to the ratification of this memorandum of understanding. As shown by the minutes of the Standing Committee, reservations had been expressed by the New Democracy, the Golden Dawn and the Communist Party of Greece. From New Democracy, Mr. Fortsakis, from the Golden Dawn, is here its representative, Mr. Karakostas, and from the Communist Party of Greece, Mr. Katsotis. Mr. Fortsakis, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u46	Thank you very much, Mr President. We had expressed a reservation not on the text of ratification, but on the idea that they could come and table amendments which would be important, in the regular manner of the government, and which would alter the main object of the acceptance being discussed. So we said that if these amendments were more important, we would not vote for it. That's not the case. We shall therefore vote for ratification, but repeating that we very much regret that the government has not taken the opportunity to defend the Greek interests in this convention. This convention is, in fact, acceptance of the American text, without any legislative preparation on our part, and thus leads to an absolutely far-reaching obligation. For example, while the Americans are asking us and we have to notify them of all the rest of the accounts, together with the names of American taxpayers, whether they are Americans or American residents, they do not give us the rest of the bills. There are also problems with whom each State is obliged to notify the names. So, for example, there is a question for Greeks who also have American citizenship and who, because of these arrangements, are now massively leaving American citizenship. This should concern Greece, because the Greek Americans are a group that supports Greek interests in the United States and needs to exist for national reasons. The same can be said of many other aspects of this convention, such as, for example, that it does not cover small financial institutions, which appear to be treated differently from the rest. This opens a way of avoiding the obligations in question. In short, Greece has not done what it had to do, namely to take a serious look at the issue and make proposals, even though the US text allows the counterparties of the States to raise the issues that will be necessary for the condition of reciprocity to be met. I would remind you that reciprocity is an obligation which is constitutional and that the Greek Government should be very careful on this point. This is not the first time that texts are coming without processing. It is a practice that the Ministry must finally review, because we need to deal with the issues that we are bringing to this House, without systematically accepting what is being proposed to us by foreigners. That is why we will vote for the agreement, but we think there is a significant deficit of preparation on the Greek side, which we deeply regret. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Mr Fortsakis, and for the brief placement. The reason is the special speaker of the Golden Dawn, Mr. Carachostas.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u48	It turns out once again that both foreign policy and the legislative initiatives of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government aim, in principle, to serve foreign interests and to apply all kinds of orders, regulations, directives and other suggestions to the international institutions, who are monitoring us. From the adoption of the native memos to the ratification and incorporation into national legislation of any kind of contract or any other text derived from the Brussels Directory, the Government appeared to be able to serve the interests perfectly not of our country but of its Trustees, misusing Article 28(1) of the Constitution, in other words subtracting national law against international conventions and thus conferring national sovereignty. By the legislation in question, however, it turns out that the government is able to serve equally effectively and the transatlantic interests and in particular those to date 'killers of the peoples of America', accepting, in essence, the full application of American legislation within the Greek territory for the benefit of not the national interest, but that of the United States. The main object of this draft law is the tax compliance of foreign accounts and its application on Greek territory through the transposition into national law and, indeed, with increased force, in accordance with Article 28(1) of the Constitution of the relevant Memorandum of Cooperation and the agreement already signed by Greece and the United States. This legislation actually extends the scope of US law and the local competence of the US authorities and services within the Greek territory. The principle of reciprocity is simply invoked for internal consumption purposes, so that the Greeks do not understand, especially the Greeks who are in any way linked to the United States, that they will now be subject to American legislation and even to the signing and blessings of the Greek state. Obviously and there is no reciprocity since, for example, the US public and US financial institutions do not undertake any minimum obligations and obligations applicable to the Greek public and Greek banks, as regards, for example, the provision of information, the threat of sanctions, the possibility of control and supervision. The draft law in question does not validate by the Greek Parliament an intergovernmental agreement or contract from those which are often drawn up between sovereign states in the light of common interests and respect for the principle of reciprocity. In this case, we are dealing with a contract that is far too heavy, in fact with an accession contract, through which domestic legislation is retreating against the American judicial system. In particular, FATCA is a legislation passed by the Congress of the United States of America in 2010 aimed at suppressing the tax evasion of US citizens or legal persons based in the United States who hold foreign accounts or offshore investments. With the expansion of the scope of the FATCA Act at international level, the United States Government is in fact trying to transform the global financial institutions into informal IRS bodies, i.e. the American Internal Income Service. In addition, with respective transnational agreements, it ensures the implementation of FATCA in the sovereign territories, supposedly, states. These States, in fact, agree to carry out the tasks of audit bodies referred to in the US Treasury. Ultimately, safeguarding US interests is being completed with the institutional safeguarding of the FATCA, through its incorporation into the national law of the counterparty State by ratification of the respective transnational agreement, just as is the case with the draft law in question. So the national parliaments - and this is the case, the Greek Parliament - are turned into an informal subcommittee of the US Congress, making legislation on the safeguarding of American interests, the application of US law and the fight against tax evasion by American citizens at the expense of the United States. During the debate on the draft law in committee we asked as Golden Dawn a number of key questions, for which, of course, we did not receive any response. We recall some of them: What benefit do we gain as a country from the Greek Government's decision to operate our state services and Greek banks as informal stepping-by-steps of control of the respective US ILO? What exchanges, possible profits or any compensatory benefits arise for Greece beyond a general reference to the draft law on reciprocity and the exchange of information? What are the consequences of voting for this piece of legislation for hundreds of thousands of Greek American expatriates who are active in the economics of the country, but as American citizens they are subject to the FATCA law? With regard to the normal results of the government's negotiating capabilities, whether in the Tsipras Trump meeting or in the draft law under consideration, we are thinking of the well-known popular proverb, which reads: "Where we were owed, we were taken by the ox." We mention it with only one hope, that Mr. Tsipras will never be tempted to render it in English. Golden Dawn is voting against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u49	Are you voting against the articles too?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u50	Everything.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u51	Good. We move to the special speaker from the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Katsotis. Mr Kattotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, Mr President. The political management of the needs of capital is known to subjugate all popular and social needs to capitalist development. This creates the so-called 'investment friendly environment'. The debate on the unfavourable carpets, which are paid by the employees, the self-employed, the poor farmers and the majority of our people, is in daily life, in order to repay the debt, debt created exclusively by the industrialists, the shipowners and entrepreneurs of other sectors, from the governments, regardless of how they have been self-determined or self-determined - right, socialist or left - with so-called 'developmental laws', have been subsidised and subsidised for investment, exempted from taxation or taxed, with the argument of incentives for growth and the creation of new jobs. The Government today brings about ratification of the international convention, the memorandum of understanding and the agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the United States of America on improving international tax compliance and so on. We in this convention consider this memorandum to be hypocritical, because they are not going to face tax evasion, tax evasion, as they have not done other, previous conventions. The bilateral and multilateral conventions, which have been ratified for exchange of information, are enough. However, the phenomenon of tax evasion has not only been restricted, but has, on the contrary, been widened. Agreements and conventions are hypocritical and are basically coming to hide the reality. First they come to hide the tax war, the intensified tax competition between the imperialist states. The United States with the Trump Government wants to further reduce the tax burden on companies operating in the United States. The same debate is taking place in the European Union, on how there will be new, reduced tax rates. The second issue is the provocative and non-legal tax evasion of large capital. For example, the logistics case in Greece goes beyond the scandal. On the basis of the laws of the Greek State, tax is effectively exempted from taxation. They pay less than seafarers pay. On the other hand, they are constantly building new ships worth billions of dollars. Is this a scandal? Thirdly, it is well known that there is the free movement of capital throughout the European Union, as is, of course, in the other capitalist economies. As their core, of course, they have the anonymity: anonymous shares, confidentiality, business, commercial, tax, banking and all that, of course, guaranteeing pluralism, the fewer. This whole framework, the confidentiality, the anonymity, has been legislated to make it easier to do business, the games of business groups. It is hypocritical and this agreement, the international convention, because those who declare war on tax evasion, the European Union, the United States, have in the countries the tax havens, which are known and not only are tolerated, but they strengthen these heavens. How many, really, states in the United States do not work such tax havens? Of the main tax havens, based on the rankings of world organizations - we have also told the committees - the five out of four are in the European Union and at the same time the Commission says that it wants to take action against tax evasion. The third issue is the conflict that exists and we are seeing today between the United States and the European Union and the issues of taxation, which have taken enormous proportions. We see, on the one hand, the Commission is making decisions with fines for American multinational companies and, on the other hand, we see the United States prosecuting multinational Europeans, such as SIEMENS, VOLKSWAGEN and others. There are also many other cases, such as the Panama papers, which are well known, and all these are examples of what we say there is a situation which is not solved in this system. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] It is not, therefore, going to solve the problem of tax avoidance, but, on the contrary, this trend, a more general trend, to reduce the tax rates of business groups, large capital and, on the other hand, to the argument of extending the tax base and all these incentives, investment, that new jobs should be created, that people should be made redundant, that the people should be robbed, so that they can gain the big capital. In this respect, and for all the reasons mentioned above, we vote 'no' in the Convention and in its articles, because we consider it hypocritical and hide the reality as a whole, and it meets the needs of big capital.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u53	Mr Katsotis, 'no' in principle and on articles? So I don't ask you after one or one, do I put it straight?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u54	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u55	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, thirty-three students and students and two teachers from the High School in Isthmia of Corinthia (first Chamber). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Because we only had four questions to discuss, and the procedure proceeded as it should be, will the Minister take the floor for five minutes to answer and then I will have a circle, asking each of us here, in the order of the parties, for three minutes if he wants to speak. It's not mandatory. Anyone who wants to take the floor, as you are in the Chamber and we have the time to do so. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I should like to say that the agreement was initialled on 21 November 2014, which means that the negotiations had begun earlier, at least two - three years. Incomprehensible is the anguish of certain parties to protect American tax fugitives. Because that's what we're talking about. The United States of America is the only country that can impose a tax, not only on its taxpayers but also on its nationals. That is why information is also exchanged for United States nationals. Our American citizens who now live permanently in Greece why should American citizenship, as has been said, be prevented if they are consistent with their tax obligations? What seems to be unlike some is the evidence that we will have for the Greeks who have money in America and we will get information now to know what's there.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u57	But that's the problem, you don't have the evidence.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u58	That's right. We'll have them for that reason.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u59	You only ask for the names.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u60	Don't have a dialogue now. Mr. Besiropoulos, you can take the floor for three minutes and say your objections. Madam Minister, are you done?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u61	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u62	Although it is not provided for in the Article 108 procedure, I am making it clear, but because it is a day that we have moved on soon, I will ask which colleagues would like to speak. Mr. Vetta, would you like to take the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u63	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u64	Mr. Besiropoulos, do you want the floor for three minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u65	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u66	Mr. Besiropoulos, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u67	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have nothing to add to what our rapporteur, Mr Fortsakis, has analysed in his detailed report, but I must point out a clear contrast: SYRIZA, who is coming today to vote for transnational agreements on the exchange of information aimed at tax compliance, when by January 2015 voted against all the relevant agreements that had been reached in this House. This political behaviour was neither due to illusions nor to ideas. Arbism was populism, along with half-heartedness and ignorance of international rules and data. Welcome to the real world! Only the populism and the "false" of your people have paid them very dearly. Ladies and gentlemen, the ratification of the memorandum of understanding and of the agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the United States of America on improving international tax compliance and the application of the laws on tax compliance of foreigners, which we are debating today, is obviously not an achievement and a result of the visit of the Prime Minister to the United States. And that is why this is an agreement that was launched in November 2014, as the Minister said, was signed on 17 January 2017 and now comes for ratification. This penalty works specifically within the framework of the agreement between Greece and the United States to avoid double taxation and to prevent tax evasion, which dates back to 1950. The conditions created require that it be updated. What are these conditions? It is the possibilities that today individuals or companies are given an economic and business activity, but also investment in financial institutions outside their country of residence. In such cases tax evasion phenomena occur and there is an urgent need for cooperation between the tax authorities of the countries. In particular, this agreement on the exchange of information and the cooperation of tax authorities shall be based on the OECD automatic exchange of information standard. If you remember, it is what you had previously voted against when you were in opposition. The specific OECD standard, which our country has ratified, together with the IAEA electronic banking and tax crossing system, which already operates, can make a decisive contribution to the control of tax evasion and to increasing public revenue. The targeting of this agreement is given. It concerns the exchange of information on issues relating to tax evasion and the movement of black money. The information to be exchanged has retroactive effect since 2014 and relates to specific data related to financial accounts, such as the name, address, APM, the names of the beneficiaries and the number of accounts, the name, the identification number of the declarant of the Greek or American financial institution, as well as information on the balance or value of the account, as well as private movements. There are also fines for cases where there is no compliance of Greek financial institutions for the exchange of information, the imposition of fines. It is a pretext for the New Democracy to ratify the agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u68	Mr. Besiropoulos, to win after a year, the New Democracy is voting 'yes' on the articles too?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u69	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u70	Let's say a lot for years to Mr. Vetta on behalf of all.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u71	Thank you!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u72	Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u73	Happy birthday, Mr. Comrade! Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are voting 'yes' in principle and 'yes' on the articles. After all, Mr Koutsoukos supported this position with his arguments in the Committee on Finance. I have asked to speak, Mr President, as a parliamentary representative of the Democratic Integration, to address - in the time given to me - the titles of three topics. Mr President, I am a publicity of Pefki and it is my constituency. At the same time, I have been a Minister of Health and I know the importance it plays for the country's health system "Evangelism". What happened yesterday with Ruvikon, as well as the attacks of the well-known and unknown at the Pefki Police Department, must be condemned by everyone. And convicted. However, I would add that the country is politically and geographically integrated into the institutions of the West - in the European Union, NATO - but it must do everything in its power to prevent the country from becoming a reality - because the government has problems here - in the Wild West. And we cannot swallow these problems as a routine. We need the government, above all, but also Parliament must respond in appropriate ways. Secondly, yesterday, it was published by the Ministry of Finance, by the General Accounting Office of the State, Madam Secretary, the proceeds. We have seen a fall in revenue of EUR 2,400,000. Within these 2.4 billion of the revenue shortage for the nine-month period January - September, the impressive figure is the problem created by the taxing capacity of natural persons, with the income tax on natural persons, where there is an estimated EUR 650,000,000 of the targets. This, Minister, means that even though you have unleashed the market and society, and you have created so many problems in the middle strata, of which you are the main enemy, you are not going to make it. And a comment on this from you, as the State Secretary responsible, would have needed it. Thirdly and finally, Mr President, it is shocking to see it from the side of the man who is suffering it. Last night, a fellow lawyer informed me that he went to get the 400 euros that he had left in his account - the month is over - but EKKA took them directly from him by connecting insurance contributions with EKKA. This situation, which has been taking place for months, is not about large incomes which are evading or taxing and, in any case, the state is defending itself against them, but about everyday people, where these mechanisms - supposedly - of the philosophical government of the SYRIZA and the ANELs have come before it and are evacuating it. It must be realised that this no-conditional, non-discriminatory attack on the Valley of everyday people burdens this government. And I would like to know, Minister - of course, you are not a Minister of Labour - whether this is the case with taxes. That's where I won't stand. As far as the contributions are concerned, however, especially of the free professionals, whom you have really been 'crowded', this lack of connection to the basics necessary for a person to live and this barbaric collection caused by you, the supposed friends of the people, must, at least, have a first treatment. We would like to know if your government is thinking about this.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u74	This is a matter of parliamentary scrutiny to the relevant Minister. However, for reasons of equality and after I have completed the cycle, I will give the floor to the Minister if he wants to respond to any of the points he has heard. However, on the subject of the 'August' raised by Mr Lovers, I personally endorse them. I happen to know this fellow Member and it is precisely the opposite of what has been accused of him. It's just the opposite end!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u75	Mr President, I would like the floor too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u76	I'm sorry, Mr. Colleague, I thought he was Mr. Vettas a representative. I'll give you the floor right after Mr. Panayotarus. Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, Ilias Panagiotaros, has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, Mr President. I do not think that all political parties are condemning yesterday's attack or other attacks which have taken place lately in our country. As for what Mr. Toskas said, Athens is a safe city, we see it every day. Citizens are being beaten down to the center because some people don't like their faces. They're being beaten by priests. They're burning police stations on a regular basis. Every Friday and Saturday is in the program, specific MAT platoons to accept attacks. It was found yesterday in a bag a woman's head at Saint Panteleimon. The body is constantly unearthed in various parts of Athens and the whole of Greece. A video is released from a barbaric attack on a gas station in northern Greece, where the employee was literally beaten by a bald man, to get him some receipts, which they were. And it's all right. We see that those responsible are whispering literally and they are not interested in anything. As far as this ratification is concerned, we see that various sanctions are constantly coming to the Greek Parliament, which have nothing to do with the interest and interests of our country either in the legal, economic or other matters. We see that in this sanction, we are obliged to give evidence, but - the Minister said that he will prove it - the Americans will not give us evidence when we ask. That is a one-sided penalty. A few days ago, an agreement was reached between the European Union and Japan on trade issues. Again Greece on the most important issues of interest to her, is underneath. Did anyone hear anything about the feta thing and anything else? No, we're still underneath. The European Union's agreement with Singapore again is the same as with agricultural products, PDOs and other products and we do not see the Greek state fighting for the fairs of farmers, farmers, Greek workers, whatever. We are constantly seeing agreements and sanctions coming, which at the end of the day, when we make a fund, have no benefit for the Greek state. It's a tactical sad thing. You are voting for what they bring you either from the European Union or elsewhere, without even daring to negotiate something better for the Greek state, the Greek economy and the Greek citizens. It's sad, really, the incident. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u78	Before giving the floor to the Minister, Mr Christos Beyialas has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u79	Thank you, Mr President. As far as ratification of the agreement is concerned, it is a tool that will help to combat tax evasion. The ways of avoiding tax evasion in various ways, whether people or businesses, are certainly more ahead of the decisions of the organised state. It's an exchange of information that will help, we believe, to a significant extent. With regard to what has been said by other colleagues, clearly the SYRIZA does not welcome any suicide either by groups or by people. It is the organized state that defends both its structures and its functioning. That is why there cannot be any question and no one can blame the operation of some people or groups of people on SYRIZA. As far as revenue shortfall is concerned, the question is that the 2017 targets will be achieved by the end of the year. We have over-performance with the objectives, and it is a matter that will be decided in November, where 800 million to 1 billion will be distributed. This is the issue, and it is not the question, if there is a delay in accounting and between different revenue codes or overrun in other codes. The final result is the important to us. But there's a question coming up. On the one hand, we are accused of depriving ourselves of revenue and, on the other hand, we are also accused of making any attempts to recover some money. Now for the individual cases that have been mentioned, such as the fact that someone had 400 euros, that can be said in a fantastic way, but also from things that we cannot know, as is the situation of everyone. The important thing is that both the ADP and the EVC have the right to collect from people who can be able to defend them through the irresponsible. Mr President, I think that within this period we are going through, the most important thing is that at the moment we are taking a period when the third assessment is going well enough. From the first days since yesterday - the good news appeared and we have the disbursement tomorrow of 800 million. Why? Because the government had made its commitment to 1.2 billion in the payment of the time-limits - from 1.2 billion to 1.5 billion - with overcompensation for this objective too. So we're moving on well. If we think positively and the next day is definitely better than the previous one.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u80	With the Minister, we're closing the debate. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u81	First of all, with regard to the 400 euros seized by an account, due to the debt of EKKA, you know very well, because you are legal, that the non-confidential account can be...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u82	He's not uncontrollable, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u83	From that point on, I think that something was wrong with this professional, and that's why he was confiscated with the sum of 400 euros.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u84	Had he declared an irresponsible account?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u85	That's exactly what I'm saying, Mr. Colleague, if he had declared an inappropriate account. He had to declare an irresponsible account and you know it very well.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u86	It's not uncontrollable, Minister, it's an uncontrollable account and you know it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u87	Please do not open up a debate on a matter that has nothing to do with the draft law.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u88	We'll enter a dialogue now if he had made a fixed order to get the money out of his account and if he had granted the right.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u89	Go ahead, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u90	I do not think we can create impressions for 400 euros in some cases, which are purely legislative. As far as reduced revenues are concerned, reduced revenues are concerned, by the fact that in some categories for this year we have had a reduced rate. The 26% rate for the free professions was 22% for those with low incomes, and that is where we had the tax for the first time in farmers. The estimates for 2017 are that not only do we have no problem and the surplus has already been agreed, but that there will be a lot of money that we will be able to give as a social dividend, as we did last year - and we want you with us this time to vote together - to go to the social groups that need it. Let's come to the deal. As soon as the agreement is passed, there will be communication between the Greek and American authorities in order to achieve the automatic exchange of information by the end of the year. That's exactly the deal. Apart from automatic exchange of information, however, our country can at any time request information on request under the double taxation agreement with the United States of America, which has been in force since the early 1950s. I would like here again to mention that data on the financial accounts of taxpayers in 2016 have already come to Greece, on the basis of the two agreements that we have ratified between the European Union and the OECD and, of course, we have also given the relevant data to the Contracting countries. The data from the multinationals - on the basis of both the respective agreements with the European Union and the OSCE - will come in the first half of 2018. The necessary data will therefore be made available to the Independent Public Revenue Authority and the rest will be made available in the coming months. With this it will be able to identify the offenders, obligate them to pay the taxes they have not paid, but also to bring them to justice, in cases where the legislation so requires. I think that we are currently completing an important phase in international agreements on automatic exchange of information on tax data. The tax administration will use them in the most efficient way and the results must be seen immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u91	The debate on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance is hereby terminated: "Furthermore, the Memorandum of Understanding and the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the United States of America on the improvement of international tax compliance and the application of the Tax Compliance Act (FATCA) and the Agreement of Competent Authorities and Implementing Provisions". Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u92	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u93	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u94	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u95	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u96	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u97	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u98	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u99	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u100	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Preparation of the Memorandum of Understanding and the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the United States of America on the improvement of international tax compliance and the application of the Tax Compliance Act (FATCA) as well as the Competent Authorities Agreement and implementing provisions’ was accepted in principle by a majority. Asked by this House: Can Article first be accepted as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u101	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u102	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u103	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u104	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u105	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u106	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u107	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u108	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u109	The first article was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept the second paragraph as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u110	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u111	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u112	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u113	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u114	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u115	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u116	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u117	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u118	The second paragraph of Article 2 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 3 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u119	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u120	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u121	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u122	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u123	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u124	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u125	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u126	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u127	The third paragraph of Article 3 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 4 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u128	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u129	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u130	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u131	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u132	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u133	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u134	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u135	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u136	The fourth paragraph of Article 4 has therefore been accepted as being majority. Does this House agree to the fifth paragraph as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u137	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u138	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u139	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u140	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u141	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u142	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u143	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u144	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u145	The fifth paragraph of Article 5 was therefore accepted as being majority. Asked by this House: Can Article 6 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u146	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u147	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u148	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u149	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u150	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u151	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u152	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u153	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u154	The sixth paragraph of Article 6 was therefore accepted as being majority. We are entering the vote of the nominee. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u155	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u156	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u157	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u158	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u159	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u160	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u161	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u162	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u163	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Furthermore, the Memorandum of Understanding and the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the United States of America on the improvement of international tax compliance and the application of the Tax Compliance Act (FATCA) as well as the Authority Agreement and implementing provisions’ was accepted in principle and in the articles. We move on to vote on the bill and on the whole. Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u164	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u165	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u166	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u167	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u168	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u169	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u170	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u171	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u172	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Preparation of the Memorandum of Understanding and the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the United States of America on the improvement of international tax compliance and the application of the Tax Compliance Act (FATCA) as well as the Authority Agreement and implementing provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate on the principle of Articles and of the whole and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u173	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u174	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Before we conclude the sitting, I am in the unpleasant position to inform the House of the following letter to Mr Nikolaos Voutsi, President of the Greek Parliament: 'Mr President, I would like to inform you that Mrs Catherine Papakostas - Ironopoulou, MP in Athens, is outside the New Democracy Parliamentary Group. Yours sincerely, Mr Mitsotakis, President of the New Democracy".
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u175	Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-26-S1-commons.u176	With the agreement of the House at 11.28 minutes the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday 27 October 2017 at 9.30 p.m., on the subject of the House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, a timely question to the Prime Minister.
