ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Before entering the agenda for the legislative work, let me make the following announcements. First of all, I would like to inform the House of the topical and urgent debate on Thursday 22 June 2017. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Under number 1039/19-6/2017, the current question by MP II of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Nikolaos Xydakis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on "Employment of Retired Persons". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 1033/16-6/2017 by MP Ioannina of New Democracy Mr Konstantinos Tasulas to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Hlip storage in the villages of the Municipality of Pogonios Ioannina". 3. The question asked by MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Reimbursement of farmers in Aleppohori, Pigadakia, Bourvoura and Vlachokers of the Municipality of Tripolis Arcadia, following the theory that caused a total disaster on June 11th". 4. Under No. 1031/15-6-2017, a topical question by MP II Athens of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Helen Zaroulia to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "The Municipality of Kavala legalizes the pseudo-state in a tourist exhibition in Constantinople". 5. Under number 1070/20-6/2017, a topical question by MP Lesvos of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Stavros Tassos to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "To take immediate steps to compensate for earthquakes immediately and to restore damage to Lesvos". 6. Under No. 1030/15-6/2017, a topical question by MP II Athens of Independent Greeks Athanasios Papachristopoulos to the Minister of the Interior, on "Help at Home". 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. Under number 1072/20-6/2017, a topical question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning redundancies of six workers and external threats of the company "BIOKALIERGES OF S.A." to workers. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Nikolaos Igoumenidis to the Minister of Home Affairs, on the subject: "Structuring debts of the Municipal Wastewater Sewage Company Heraklion". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Under number 1034/16-6-2017, a topical question by the Parliamentary Serres of New Democracy Mrs. Fotinis Arabatzis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the subject: "Problems and prospects of the buffalo farming sector". 3. Under No 1029/15-06-2017, a topical question by MP II of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr.Ioannis Bagou to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "The uncontrollable crime of the Roma has turned the Menidian into an illegal man". 4. The question by number 1071/20-6/2017 of the Greek Communist Party MEP Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: “Security of the payment of the remuneration due, guarantee all insurance rights and continuing employment of the employees of the "Athens Ledra" hotel from the new business group that acquired it.” 5. Under number 1073/20-6/2017, a topical question by MP Achaias of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on the problems of workers in the professional refrigerator industry of "FRIGOGLASS S.A." in K. Achaia, Achaia, Achaia. 6. The question by number 980/7-6-2017, by MP Serres of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.MAR.Michael Jeleli to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "The creation of three new toll stations on the Promahona road axis - Serres - Thessaloniki Port is disastrous for Serres. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The question by number 9776-2017, dated by MP I of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Antonios Gregos to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "The desecration of the sacred monument of the Unknown Soldier, as a result of continuous impunity." 8. The Question No 982/8-6-2017 by MP Mr. Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of the Interior about the break-up of stores in Piraeus. 9. The Question No 984/9-6-2017 by the Deputy Minister of Attica of the New Democracy Mr. Mavroudi Voridis to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Deathly student injury in the Acharnes". 10. The 991/12-2017 topical question by the MP of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Friday (Egypt) Christophilopoulou to the Minister of Home Affairs on the protection and safety of the non-negotiable inhabitants of Acharnes. 11. Eleni Zarulia to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Continued terrorist attacks against the platoons of MS from para-state elements". 12. The question by No 928/2-6-2017, by MEP 2, Piraeus, of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos, to the Minister of the Interior, about the uncontrolled action of the hooded anarchists. 13. Observations of the Court of Justice Under No 922-1-6-2017, a topical question by MP II Athens of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Helen Zarulia to the Foreign Minister, on the subject: "The World Bank "characterizes" the Aegean in Turkey." REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Question No 2883/25-1-2017 by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMARKK KEGEROGLO to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the immediate implementation of the CSCE on financial aid to HEIs and the members of the public. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No 176-7-10-2016 of the Independent MP from Athens Mr.Theocharis Theocharis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity about the New Karvalis fertiliser plant in Kavala. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask all of you to facilitate the process today, because there is the Ministerial Council meeting this morning and we must make it easier for our colleagues to take part in the Ministerial Council. I also have the honour to announce that: The Committee on the Rules of Procedure presents its report to the proposal of the President of the Greek Parliament: "To amend provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament - Part Parliament (Law 106/A'/24.6.1987) and Part II (Law 51/A'/10.4.1997) as applicable". The Ministers for Foreign Affairs, Home Affairs, Economy and Development, Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, National Defence, Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Economics, Health, Administrative Reconstruction, Culture and Sport, Environment and Energy, Infrastructure and Transport, Migration, Maritime and Immigration Policy, Rural Development and Food, Tourism, Deputy Ministers of Foreign Affairs, Home Affairs, Economy and Development, National Defence, Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Economic, Health and Energy, and the State Secretarys of Foreign Affairs, Culture and Religious Affairs, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Economic and Energy, Rural Development and Food, as well as the State Secretarys of Foreign Affairs and Development, Development and Religious Development, and Religious Affairs of the European Union - European Union's Development and Religious Development Policy - 20-17 It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Finally, I would like to inform the House that the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights has forwarded to Parliament under Rule 86 of the Constitution and Law 3126/2003 “Prime responsibility of the Ministers”, as is the case on 20-6-2017: 1. Criminal proceedings concerning the former Minister for Labour, Social Security and Welfare, Mr Ioannis Vroutzis and Mr Ioannis Vroutzis 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Criminal proceedings concerning the former Minister for Health. Mr. Adoni Georgiadis. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK A sole debate and vote on the principle of law, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights: ‘I Shaping and adapting Greek legislation to the Warsaw Convention of 16 May 2005 on legalising, detecting, confiscation and confiscation of proceeds from criminal activities and on the financing of terrorism, incorporating A - 2003/577/JHA, A - Π 2005/212/JHA, A - D 2006/783/JHA, as amended by A - Π 2009/299/JHA and Directive 2014/42/EU, II) Conditions for the placement of minors in an institution or a contracted family from and to Member States of the European Union pursuant to Article 56 of Regulation (EC) No 207/2003. Council Regulation (EC) No 2201/2003 of 27 November 2003 on jurisdiction and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in matrimonial matters and matters of parental responsibility, repealing Regulation (EC) No 1347/2000, III) Incorporating Directive 2013/48/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 October 2013 on the right of access to a lawyer in criminal proceedings and a procedure for the enforcement of the European arrest warrant, as well as on the right of information of a third person in the event of his or her freedom, and on the right to communicate with third persons and to consular authorities in the course of freedom deprivation, IV) Incorporation of Directive 2012/29/EU on minimum standards for the rights, support and protection of victims of crime and replacing Council Decision 2001/220/JHA.’ The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 14 June 2017 to discuss the draft law at a meeting. I propose that the draft law should be uniform in principle, articles and amendments. Does this House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u2	So the House unanimously agreed. The rapporteur for SYRIZA, Mr Panayota Kozobol - Amanatidis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, with the bill to be passed today in the House, four texts of the European institutions are being ratified or incorporated. All the provisions of this draft law are positive and this was reflected in the hearing by bodies, where everyone agreed on the positive provisions contained in it, and their only concern was to see how the specific services set up by this draft law will be provided. More specifically, as I have said before, this draft law concerns four contractual texts and that is why it has been structured in four parts. The first part concerns the ratification of the national legislation of the 2005 Warsaw Convention on money laundering, detection, seizure, confiscation of proceeds from criminal activities and terrorist financing. The measures to be taken to integrate this directive are limited because there is an adequate legislative framework in our country. But there is a need for this framework to be complemented, made more specific and adapted to the requirements of today's era, mainly because of the rapid technological developments over the past twenty years. For this reason, intervention is being made in the process of implementing confiscation decisions. The procedure shall be simplified and the principle of direct recognition and enforcement of decisions of the Member State which issued the mandate shall be specified. The duration and fate of the frozen information is regulated by Article 31 in the Code of Criminal Procedure, which regulates in greater detail how confiscation decisions are implemented. The main objective of this ratification and integration is the creation within the European Union of a common area, where judicial decisions will be taken quickly, relating to the freezing and confiscation of assets arising from criminal activities. The previous international conventions provided for measures to combat money laundering, focusing mainly on repression and international cooperation, such as criminalisation of money laundering, etc., without attaching particular importance to preventive and other measures such as the creation of financial control units established by this draft law, the recovery and distribution of the assets created, etc. This gap is coming to cover this Convention, which is incorporated into our national law. The second part concerns the conditions for the placement of minors to an institution or a contractor family to and from the members of the European Union. The provisions of this draft law stem from Article 56 of Regulation No 2201/2001 of the European Parliament. They are minors judged by the competent authority in their country that continued living under specific conditions, in which they are already living, will have adverse effects on their overall development and are proposed to relocate them to an institution or a donor family in another Member State of the European Union, where it is considered to have positive effects. Those provisions shall not apply to children who are in breach of Community law or who are in breach of Community law. Admission to private structures or families at the request of other states is now also made in our country, but, at the same time, without the supervision of the state and state institutions, because there is no such procedure. This irregularity comes to cover the specific provisions. The competent authority for the placement shall be the court of the requested country. Then a request is made to the central authority designated for our country by the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, and indeed the Department of International Cooperation. The request is approved or rejected by the Prosecutor of Minors of Athens and, in the case of the approval of the request, by diligence of the Prosecutor of Minors of Athens, a foreign decision is recognised in accordance with the procedure in force when we have to recognise a foreign title and Articles 904 and 905 of the Code of Civil Procedure. So it ceases to be self-evident, I would say, because, as I said, it does not only cover a particular gap, but because, unfortunately, these assignments were made in our country, without the institutional framework, it could also be at the expense of the specific children who came here to improve their personal situation. The third part of the draft law incorporates in Greek law the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of Justice and Home Affairs of 22/10/2013 on the right of access to a suspect or accused lawyer in criminal proceedings and the procedure for the execution of the European Arrest Warrant. It is part of a package of measures to strengthen the procedural rights of suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings. This is about the right to access a lawyer and to ensure the confidentiality of the suspect's or accused's communication with his lawyer and the right to communicate with a human being, with a particular person who will demonstrate himself. The confidentiality of communication with the person indicated by him is also guaranteed. These provisions, as the Minister for Justice rightly said, honor our legal culture. The fourth and final part of the draft law concerns the adoption of minimum rules on rights, support and protection of victims of crime. Here, although it concerns all victims, regardless of age, of criminal acts, I will focus on the latest articles in this chapter which creates so-called ‘childdom for children’: In particular, independent offices are set up in the services of minors, without dealing with the already existing structures. I say this because there has also been a lot of discussion in the committee's drafting of the bill. There are therefore independent offices in the juvenile services of minors with regard to minors and the "Home of the Child" structure is created in five districts of the country. In these self-sufficient services, minor victims will have specialised care from the time the crime is reported to be committed until the criminal proceedings are completed and the protection of them and the rectification of the victim wound. Research has shown that. if the minor victim does not accept in good time the information provided by the psychiatric care services, it shall be abused second and repeatedly. In our country we have been delayed for decades to create those structures that will provide valid and timely care for the minor, unlike neighbouring countries, such as Turkey which has ten such structures, eight and two, and Bulgaria which has - please - twenty such structures. At this difficult juncture in our country the first steps are taken. So these special structures are being established. These are services with special spaces and specialised staff, in which the child will be examined following interdisciplinary cooperation between the pre-examination, investigation and judicial authorities, with psychologists, psychiatrists and social workers. I repeat, not by the juvenile curators. It's the most friendly justice for children. The children of victims and witnesses of all criminal offences will be examined in the presence of a child psychologist who, having received appropriate training for this purpose, submits questions put by pre-review officials and judges. At the same time, it improves the administration of justice and the protection of the defendant, as the child's testimony and the truth of his words can be better appreciated. Public operators are trained and exploited so that fewer private experts are used, which are not always impartial and independent. Five self-reliance offices are currently set up for the protection of minors, the so-called "Home of the Child", in Athens, Piraeus, Thessaloniki, Patras and Heraklion. These five specific structures, however, have competence throughout the whole appeal region, resulting in the highest possible geographical coverage of the courts of the country. For this reason, Article 226 of the Code of Criminal Procedure is also amended to make it compulsory to exploit the structures of the "Home of the Child" by the pre-reviewing and judicial authorities when considering the minor. The role of the specially trained child psychologist in examining the child needs to be strengthened, to make the child's statement compulsory, in order to replace his presence in the next stages of the trial, as already provided for in Article 226A of the Code of Criminal Procedure. The new procedure is defined as an expert - a pediatrician who will serve in this structure. The preliminary interrogator will examine the child in the particular structure, at the "Home of the Child" where it exists and ask questions asked by the pre-reviewed employee - an interrogator with the intercom system. The preliminary interrogator employee will direct the examination by watching behind a double mirror. The child's testimony will be videotape and so the child will not be present in the next stages, as we said before. This was already provided for in 2007, but the process of filming had never been implemented, so that the child would deposit up to fourteen times, as has been observed. I shall refer a little to the amendments that have already been tabled. Amendment 1056 concerns the extension of the deadline for objecting to the content of forest maps in areas which expire on 12 June 2017. There is an extension forty-five days and ends with the new deadline on 27 July 2017. I would like to say here that this is not an amendment to the article which provides for a specific deadline for the submission of objections to the contents of forest maps. This is an extension for those areas, for which the deadline expires on 12 June. Here I would like to say that with the suspension of the forest maps many problems have been observed, which could never have been detected if this post had not been made. The post was therefore required to make many amendments, many corrections, legislating from the outset, and thus to delay this procedure. This is why a last extension is given. However, it is also pointed out in the explanatory statement that it is the last extension that is being given. It is not amended, I repeat, the law here as a whole because there are other procedures, such as issuing licences outside the plan, etc., which have been delayed, are not currently being adopted. In Amendment No 1063, Article 74(6) of Law 3863/2010 is re-drafted in order to allow long-term unemployed persons to join OAED registers from fifty-five to sixty-six years of age in programmes drawn up by OAED for employment in the public sector, in OTAs A and B, as well as in all such enterprises by way of derogation from these programmes. First of all, this provision is very positive and aims to enable the people of this age group to find work, i.e. fifty-five to sixty-seven years in order to fill in the necessary years for their pension rights. The negative effects in the case of redundancies are being sorted out with this amendment. The criteria to the characteristics of the target unemployed group, which cumulatively are persons aged fifty to sixty-seven years, to be registered in the OAED registers and long-term unemployed, are thus clearly set out. Amendment No 87 extends the disciplinary powers of the Inspector-General for Public Administration and safeguards his role as a disciplinary body. It is also a positive provision. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I would like one more minute. I am in the amendments. Although I'm in time...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u4	My colleague, I have promised our fellow ministers that we will make it easier for them to take part in the Ministerial Council and at the same time also to be in the Chamber. So I'm gonna be strict in time, I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u5	I shall conclude, Mr President. The responsibilities of the Secretary-General for Public Administration are also positive. Also, very positive is that in the context of strengthening commercial Navy students a monthly traineeship is granted to the first-year students of the Merchant Navy Academy. The issue of digital policy will not be commented on, the Minister will present it. Amendment No 1067/90 is also a very positive regulation. With this amendment, on 1067/90, the characteristics of the candidates for the competition for the privatisation of the TECA are being expanded, but under conditions that protect the security of the country's and the European Union's energy supply. As you know, it introduces around 60% of the energy needs from third countries, which is considered a serious strategic handicap. According to what is happening, the candidates for 66% of the CNG had to be members of the European Natural Gas System Operators Network or be members of a relevant consortium. Positive, too, are...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u6	Mrs. Comrade, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u7	I won't say any more. Perhaps I will be given the floor again for the amendments along the way. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u8	The rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Nikolaos Panagiotopoulos, has the floor for 15 minutes. I beg your pardon, Mr Colleague, you have come to Stepma, but I must first make a statement to this House. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after taking part in the 'Summer Democracy Workshop' educational programme organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, fifteen students and students and one of their teachers from the 3rd Moschato High School and from the 1st High School of Tavros. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Here, Mr. Panayotopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u9	Mr. President, time? Thirty-eight seconds correspond approximately to the time of analysis of a directive, as I computely estimate.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u10	I'll add them, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u11	Amendments, bills, the well-known alalum, I would now say that it is going on with unrelenting intensity in terms of the most problematic legislative function. The way in which you now legislate, ladies and gentlemen, is literally a test of nerves, first of all, but an affront to the rapporteur and all the mechanisms of the parties that are taking one - one of the amendments which, in order to analyse them, look at them, put themselves in a position, to form their position on the vote on the amendments. You have brought to the Public Administration and Justice Committee, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, a bill that is, I would say, a sum of incorporation into national law of international regulations: an International Convention, the 2005 Council of Europe Convention on Money Laundering, Demonstration, Confidence and Confidence of Crimes and Financing of Terrorism, together with three incorporations in the essence of three decisions - framework and a directive relating to the above description of the Warsaw Convention, as well as an incorporation into national law of a regulation of the European Union, concerning the conditions for the placement of minors in an institution or a donor family from and to a Member State - of the European Union, as well as a directive on the right to access to lawyers in criminal proceedings and a procedure for the execution of the European arrest warrant, as well as a directive which is truly important incorporating into national law, to establish minimum standards on rights, the protection of victims of crime, a legal text. We all agree that this should be incorporated and improved in the current legal framework, as it extends a grid of protection to victims of crime, particularly to victims of more vulnerable victimisation groups, particularly to children. It is universal, therefore, for all the wings of this House to be protected more and more strongly, for which, of course, the suffering of criminal proceedings is a very hard, traumatic, secondary experience, from which we must protect them, to the extent that we can. That's it. The bill came, it was discussed at first, there was the hearing of the bodies. They really had lots and interests to say. That's what we all agree on. There has been a really creative debate and, I would say, a high level, and a scientific one among others. Then, at second reading, irregularities began. "Irregularities" is an expression that you often use, Minister. That's why I mention it. Firstly, the second reading of the bill took place two hours after the end of the debate on the articles. There was no room for a fermentation of what was said in the interesting real discussions, so that they would be transformed into improvement at some points, where necessary, of the bill. From that point on, with the expiry of another day, the bill comes to plenary. We have celebrated the fact that this is the first bill to be introduced into the parliamentary process of legislating under the normal procedure, not as an urgent or urgent procedure, and in the course of which you have, at least, turned into an emergency. Because it came after the end of the second reading, after one day, a vulnerability in the House to vote for it. But that's not all. It is also a well-known issue of the rain of the amendments. In a text, as I have told you, which introduces international regulations, which our country must incorporate, there are amendments. He had performed a performance by the Chief of Staff Response to the President of the Parliament, explaining all the problematic points of the bad legislature. We have said that one of the most problematic of these is the unusual, the great, the excessive increase in the vote on sanctions for international conventions, when under the Rules of Procedure of Parliament, which obviously also are not every word, shows that the debate in the House of Sanctions for International Conventions is de facto limited. We are also discussing amendments here! That's not things. The parliamentary process of legislating has not just been facilitated, it has become arrogant. Otherwise, I read that the Bureau is studying ways of improving the Rules of Procedure so that the parliamentary work can be made easier. But, if he does not see this point, that is, the extremely problematic nature of poor legacy, then he will not have made minimal intervention in improving the Rules of Procedure for parliamentary procedures. It'll be a gift of no matter what. Therefore, in my time, I will not analyse so much the elements that have been extensively developed in the debate on the ratification of the international convention, directives and other regulations that come from the European legal acquis and I will try to put more emphasis on the amendments, to be even within the year. I will simply say as regards the ratification of the Warsaw Convention for legalisation, detection, confiscation, confiscation of proceeds from criminal activities, etc., on which we have also been positive, that this is a text that enriches existing legislation, in particular Law No3691/2008, in an article on confiscation of assets. In essence, procedures and principles are laid down to implement this situation, i.e. the possibility of making a commitment on the one hand and the confiscation of assets on the other which are the products of criminal activity. I would remind you in Article 5 that, in the Scientific Committee of Parliament, there are some issues of unconstitutionality here, and we need to see it a little carefully, since I can speak on very specific points, a few really. The possibility of managing the fixed assets as it thinks, i.e. to serve the public interest, for social purposes, etc., I think that the wording of the text is, rather, vague. It has to be more specific. All these promises about 'published' and'management for social purposes' are good, but I think that here, because it is too vague, there is room for specialisation, so that we do not go to circumvent the spirit of the law. From there on, on the other points, I think it is worth mentioning the fourth part on which it has been developed, and I would say better, in quality terms, a debate on the committees, integrating Directive 2012/29, on minimum standards for rights, support and protection of victims of crime, Articles 54 to 58. I was surprised that the prosecutor of the Ice Bay heard the bodies to be heard only on that part of the legislation. That means something on its own. This establishes rights for all victims, without discrimination, with the best interests of the minor victim. The concept of reinstatement of justice - with the various questions concerning its similarity with the procedure of criminal conciliation, which is slowly introduced into our criminal justice system - is more than ever more likely to be the case for reasons of the procedure and to facilitate the awarding of justice to the criminal courts, since this is a process of negotiation between the perpetrator and the perpetrator, with a view to restoring the victim to a satisfactory degree. From there on, we have raised a number of objections to some of the wording of the bill, such as the'reasonable period' of Article 59, on the right of free interpretation and translation. It's elastic. For me, a more specific deadline must be set so that we do not go to unacceptable delays. Protection of the disabled person, particularly during the criminal proceedings, is particularly important. It requires both trained staff, child psychologists, child psychiatrists, social workers and a public administration, in the field of whether you want the courts to function, which is capable of meeting the requirements of this legislation. And we had all pointed out that it was heard by the institutions in the relevant procedure, that, not because of overloading - you said so, Minister - but mainly because of subsidization, it is a question of whether the College of Officials, for example, will be able to respond to the additional requirements arising from this bill. It is important to avoid contact with the perpetrator in the field of criminal proceedings, for the purposes of protecting the minor victim. The forecasts of waiting space, etc., are in the right direction. Finally, because I see that time is running out, I will explain a few things about the amendments. It is about ten ministerial amendments at least. We told you our general, strong opposition to this way of legislating. From that point on, however, since they have come, we must also make a position on the substance. We have already said by the committee that we will be voting in favour of the ministerial amendment on the extension of a deadline for objecting to the content of forest maps, despite the fact that it is, in fact, proof of the problematic initial legislation that caused all these problems and therefore all these needs for extension to the deadline for submission. Here it is extended for another forty-five days. God has, I suppose. From that point on, the next amendment, under number 1063/86, concerns the possibility of joining the CSCE - and this is important - of long-term unemployed, those close to retirement age, fifty-five-seven-seven-year-olds, in programmes drawn up by the OSCE. Look, here you are limiting time, the scope of the project, since it is now a prerequisite for someone to join this employment programme that must be registered with the OAS rather than not registered with the OAED. I don't know how feasible this is for older people and long-term unemployed people. I am also concerned that you have the need to draw up a joint ministerial decision. Why? A ministerial decision by the relevant Minister for Labour would be sufficient if the programme - as would be normal for such an OAS programme - were to be financed from the European Social Fund. The FCH is concerned that such an activity may be financed by the State budget for inclusion in an employment support programme. You should make that clear. If it is a ministerial decision, then we are fine and we are voting in favour of it. If it is a joint ministerial decision, then for the reasons I have explained, we are very concerned about it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance. I won't get more than half a minute extra. Amendment No 1064/87, which amends provisions on the responsibilities of the Inspectorate-General for Public Administration, is being voted against. This is why we believe that an additional control mechanism is being set up and that the nature of the public administration inspectorate is actually changing. He's becoming a disciplinary board. In other words, an auditor who is controlled by the state and the government. He doesn't think we're agreed. We will vote in favour of the retrospective extension for the payment of the monthly training allowance to students of the Commercial Navy Academy. It is an amendment that comes from the Ministry of Shipping. Although there was, in fact, a gap in the regulation of this situation from 1-1-2016 - as it says - to date, it has been retrospectively coming and covering this gap. This allowance has to be paid. But at the same time these schools must work better. To cover the shortcomings in teaching staff, not to fail, so that the "industrial" production of executives employed in our powerful Merchant Navy is not weakened but strengthened. On the amendment by the relevant Minister - who is here too, he came to support it - Mrs Asmakopoulou will speak of a time economy. It's particularly detailed and technical. I therefore think it would be better if the most responsible were to speak. I do not think that Parliament's amendments should be discussed anyway. We shall be voting in favour of the amendment to the TEC. We will not resist the temptation to observe that the laundry hips have turned into legislative arrangements for the expansion of the range of stakeholders to participate in the competitive process. That's really interesting. And from that point on, we will also vote in favour of the ratification of the agreement amending the concession agreement for the upgrading of regional airports - this is the well-known 'FRAPORT' contract - despite the fact that the amendment to the Convention has been amended three months since its signature and despite the fact that a problematic point here is that the Presidential Decree on the establishment of the Civil Aviation Authority has not yet been adopted as a supervisory body.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u12	Mr. Comrade, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u13	To conclude, I will say on the amendment from the Ministry of Justice. Minister, only the fact that for two days you have not spoken to us in committee that you intend to bring an amendment to your Ministry, which regulates certain matters of the operation of the mortgages, makes us negative in its vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u14	Mr. Comrade...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u15	Yeah, you can say something after that. I'm telling you about our stand.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u16	Mr. Colleague, please finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u17	I'm just finishing up like I started. Indeed, this bill, after all, while it has too many interesting facts and has faced consensus in the extensive debate in the committees, is wronged by the final way in which it is brought into legislation. The only suggestion I make to you at this time before I close - Mr President, thank you for the tolerance - is that you should at last stop being wronged even at the very least accepted by all the governments of this House by the bills you bring to the vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Pappas has the floor to support his amendment. I just want to tell you that - as we all want to help - in order to make your own facility, to stay in your time. Here, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u19	I don't think I'm gonna need them, Mr. President. There's no need. I think it is a self-evident legislative initiative by the Government, which, in the end of the publication of the decisions of the Council of State for the competition of last August on television licences abolishes the requirement of Article 2A and lays down the obligation to national broadcasters - on the basis of a legislative improvement, which, unfortunately, had to be done and was not specified in the original wording, because it really would cause too many problems, but I will come to that - to have the standard and high clarity by 2021. What does that mean? Because too many of our fellow citizens do not have television receivers, who can relay our high-definition programmes if the competitive process and the channels are abruptly completed, only in high-definitioned situations too many of our fellow citizens will not be able to watch TV. So there is no need for our country to have another black one. I therefore believe that this intervention ensures that this will not happen. Legislative improvement relates to the omission in the initial wording of the clarification that the provision of simultaneous transmission of standard and high-definition television relates to national channels. It would be technically impossible for regional stations as well. I hope I covered for you, Mrs. Asmakopoulou. Mr President, I have completed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u20	Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u21	Mr President, I would like to speak for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u22	I think you want to make some clarification. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u23	Mr President, I take the floor because an amendment has been tabled by the Ministry of Justice, which in the first two articles contains some arrangements for the mortgage office. I have informed the rapporteurs that, with legislative improvement, these two articles will normally be incorporated, if we consider it appropriate, into a draft law, which will come to Parliament the next time. The amendment therefore exists with regard to articles relating to the independent principle of preliminary rulings for its better functioning. I shall table the relevant legislative improvement, because the rapporteur for Officerial Response mentioned it. I would also like to say that, from the hearing of the bodies, we have drawn some conclusions, which we had included in legislative improvements, and we have also had the approval of almost all the parties in this House. I also said that what was heard at second reading will be taken into account. Today we have two minor legislative improvements on what has been said. That is why I also consider the criticism of the legislative procedure to be rather unfair. So I am making the relevant legislative improvements that I have mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u25	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u26	Mr Polakis, you have the floor, however briefly, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u27	I am always brief, Mr President. Thank you very much. This is the amendment we tabled, the general number 1072 and the specific 95. The first paragraph finally clarifies and solves the way in which expenditure on out-of-court movements of the staff of the EKP, in which a major blockage had been created, and rightly complained by the workers, too, is being paid. We have brought it back, we have had some problems with the Court of Auditors. I think that this addition is now a final solution to the smooth operation. Because here we had a situation where some people did not want the EKEV to be able to move people from Chania to Heraklion. Paragraphs 2 and 3 substantially extend the validity of previous articles provided for in previous laws for the proper supply of hospitals. In other words, costs, which are based on the Observatory, but have not yet been awarded and the supply contracts of hospitals are extended by supplies and various materials from existing tenders, on the basis of the Observatory's prices. This will allow for direct disbursement of several large amounts to the suppliers of hospitals and for 2017. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Minister. We're continuing with the special speakers. Mr Theodoros Papatheodorou has the floor from the Democratic Association for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to say to Mr Papapas who left that if it were so self-evident that the Government would abolish Article 2A after the decision of the Council of State, why would it abolish it six months later? The "self" means that, having received the answer from the Council of State, it is the government's self-evident obligation to comply. Post-date compliance doesn't seem to me to be self-evident, it seems to me to be compulsory. And finally what we see is that it was compulsory, but if you read the Minutes, ladies and gentlemen, about what Mr Pappas said about Article 2A, when it was his self-evident obligation to abolish it and what he said today, you will see that there is a gap. That's not just a logic gap, it's a policy gap. This draft law of the Ministry of Justice affirms the Warsaw Convention of May 2005 on legalisation, detection, confiscation, confiscation of proceeds from criminal activities and terrorist financing, regulating issues of concurrent family law, inadmissibility, assumption, under the 2003 Regulation, which are incorporated into Greek law by two European directives on the right of access to a lawyer in the context of the European arrest warrant procedure, the first and second on rights and support for victims of crime. The ratification by this draft law of the European regulations is of the opinion that it is a good thing and that it is necessary to enrich legislation and also to enrich existing legislation and the law of minors and family law and the rights of the victim. For the first time in a long time we have had a bill which has been discussed in normal procedures. And it is acidifying, ladies and gentlemen, that we, as members of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, really discuss very fertile proposals on how legislative work can develop without this weight of amendments, regardless of the draft law under discussion, and in particular how other provisions of the Rules of Procedure will be respected, which have to do with the process of ratifying directives or other European regulations, while at the same time saying that not only should the phenomenon of amendments be restricted to such texts, but also that there should be an absolute relevance between the amendment and the text that we are voting on. Therefore, the fact that tomorrow we are voting on amendments to the Rules of Procedure, once again we are faced with a phenomenon of parallel amendments, regardless of the draft law and the ratification of European regulations. I think this has to do with not only the proper legislature, but also the political will of the government to implement what it proposes to other committees, such as the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. As we stressed during the debate in the committee, legislative initiatives such as those which are the content of the draft law, such as the Redemption of the Warsaw Convention, which extend and tighten up the framework for combating black money and interlocutory, are in agreement with us from a principle of principle. On the first part of the draft law, the ratified contract revises the previous contract in 1998 and extends its application beyond money laundering and terrorist financing. We are also in agreement at this point. With regard to the second part and to the transposition into national legislation of Directive 2014/42 of the European Union, on the recognition and enforcement of judgments by judicial authorities of other Member States of the European Union, concerning the freezing and confiscation of property and evidence, we are adopting it again - the point made by the President of the Plenary Assembly of the Bar Associations that these arrangements were established before the signing of the Treaty of Lisbon and before the entry into force of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of Man. Already in many European states there are concerns, doubts as to whether these provisions, in particular the provisions relating to the explicit criminal offence against various categories of crimes, are compatible with the text we are voting on today. With regard to the second part of the bill, our view is that the arrangements are in the right direction and, moreover, introduce EU law provisions. However, we insist that we need a more general approach to the issue, for example, of family law, not only as a part that is inserted with these provisions and has to do with assumption, but also with a grid of provisions that we have supported since 2014 and which includes the family court, family mediation, new provisions on the adoption, co-ordination of children, Minister, which is very important and has dealt with a very large part, a large part of parents, in the context of consensus divorce, as well as other arrangements today are mature to be the subject of a legislative consensus on the reform of family law. As far as the provisions introduced by this bill are concerned, I am going to refer to Article 33(2), which stipulates that the Advocate-General shall, within two months, approve or reject the request, after receiving the opinion of a curator of the Athens School of Minors. Given the serious subsistence of this service, after the debate we had in the committee, this arrangement seems to be problematic, because it will in practice create a risk that these tasks will be carried out or partly carried out as a result of the overloading of the service with a disproportionately large volume of work. In the third part of the draft law, which concerns the incorporation of Directive 2013/48 of the European Union, I will only mention - obviously we consider the arrangements positive - on two issues, on the one hand, in Article 99C, where we have proposed that the terms 'exceptional case' and 'immediate risk' be more clearly defined, so that there is no interpretation by the judicial authorities. I would also say to you that the text of the Scientific Council of Parliament is exactly the same reservation when it refers to Article 51(7) that the prevention of direct risk constitutes a restriction on the right of communication with third parties and it would be appropriate to refer specifically to the immediate danger, so that the provision is clearer and that we do not have a problem not only of interpretation and implementation but, on the contrary, of arbitrary application or misuse of this article. In the third part, with regard to the paragraph of Article 49, the Scientific Council of Parliament focuses on something we have stressed, namely that it would also be appropriate to extend the proposed regulation to the suspect, and that there should also be greater safeguarding of the confidentiality of communication between lawyers and accused persons, and that it also concerns telephone and, in general, electronic communication, with the need to produce a probative ban on the use of the relevant information. As far as the fourth part of the bill is concerned, I think that the issues that we have discussed in the committee as well and we have also discussed with the bodies. I have the impression that here - and there is no problem of tabling our disagreement - it is the only part of the draft law in which the government, beyond ratification, creates a new legislative framework for what we call 'the functioning of restitutional justice in Greece, both in terms of the adult victims and the minor victims'. For minors, we know that it has progressed - in the rares - reinstatement justice. We are talking about supporting victims in the context of the creation of rehabilitating justice for adults, and I repeat that this function is unknown, because so far there has been no such approach under the supervision of justice. Here, then, we have a different approach to this issue. We have a different philosophy in relation to what is proposed by the draft law. The Government considers that all the functions of re-establishment justice should be housed under the Minors' and Social Aid Service of the Ministry of Justice. What we have supported from the outset - and it is essential for our disagreement - is this: since there is an opportunity to create an institution from the outset, this institution must, in order to be able to act in support of the victims, have an autonomous and autonomous function within a framework of support for the victims and not in a framework that operates without any discrimination and without any independence, on the one hand, support for the victim and on the other. I say this because of the discussions that we had in committee and the position of the Minister, a conclusion is reached. We now have a delayed implementation of the institution. We are the last country in the European Union to apply remedial justice. There are too many models and there are too many alternatives so that we can create an institution that is really in the service of supporting the victims. What I am saying is that the choice we are making today is that we will find it before us in the next few years, not only because it will work with subordinated services, but because, according to what we have been supporting from the outset, we are losing an opportunity to create the institution from the outset, to pre-arrange it, either through transfers or through new posts with well-qualified staff and from there, to support not only the victims, but also the alternatives that justice must have, so that it can make the economy of justice, but also respect the rights of the victims. In this context, with regard to the amendments, in addition to Mr Pappas, to which I have referred and which, as you can see, is not just a self-evident obligation but, in our view, it is a self-evident retreat of the government following the decisions of the Council of State, we shall be placed in the vote on the principle and the articles - which I mentioned to you - and our position is positive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u30	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Aivatidis from Golden Dawn has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u31	Excuse me, Mr. President, I have asked why I should...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u32	Excuse me, Minister. Mr Aivatidis, wait a minute, because the Minister has asked the floor to present his amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u33	All right, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u34	I will not need twenty seconds, Mr President. Thank you. It is the amendment to the concession agreement for airports with the ‘FRAPORT’. You'll see, they're all typical. It's a mistake on dates, some references to articles, some addresses. It's completely typical, but it has to be passed by the House. Ladies and gentlemen will see that it is absolutely nothing. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Aivatidis has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr President. The legislation introduced today is a mixed piece of legislation, which includes legal instruments of the European Union against a major reason, the Warsaw Convention, a regulation on the placement of minors in an institution or contracted family from and to the States of the European Union. The third part concerns the incorporation of a directive on the right of access to a lawyer in criminal proceedings and a procedure for the execution of a European arrest warrant, and the fourth concerns the incorporation again of a directive on support for and protection of victims of crime. At the outset, I will make it clear that we are voting against this legislation in principle, and I would stress that, as far as individual articles and provisions are concerned, we will almost all vote against the articles of Part One, Two and Four, while we recognise some stringing-in positive elements only in part Three of the legislation. Very briefly, I would like to address a few key issues concerning the European Union's legal system, because, as I said before, they are included in this mixed draft legislation, directives, as well as in this Warsaw Convention. It is a given that the Member States of the European Union have definitively transferred their sovereign rights to the European Union. They cannot retreat backwards and cannot take any unilateral measures unless they of course decide to break apart from the Union. The Regulation as a legal instrument is binding on all its elements. The Rules of Procedure fully and directly replace national law with European law. The directive is only binding and binding on the results to be achieved, targeted and measured - because it is at the discretion of the Member State - how to introduce it - according to particular national circumstances, specific provisions. Finally, as far as decisions are concerned, these are again compulsory. In fact, I wanted to say that the treaties and regulations have a direct effect on the law of each country. This is important, because any individual, in any case, can ask the judge for the application of European law, which may conflict with national law. This is very important for the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organised Crime with its contained protocols and the Palermo Convention, which our country ratified with No.3875 on 20 September 2010. However, there is also Article 187 on criminal organisation, which does not require a donation of money or other material benefits, such as the Palermo Treaty. This applies to the ongoing trial of the Golden Dawn, where we consider ourselves to have been vindicated by introducing the criminal organisation charge in the process, since it is known and clear from Article 28 of the Constitution that international conventions, after ratification by law by the Greek Parliament, form an integral part of domestic law and prevail any other contrary law. But perhaps these other provisions, which are confusing and may give rise to disputes between the courts or opinions, may also create the possibility of interfering with political persons in such cases, as was the case in the case of the proceedings on the Golden Dawn. With regard to the Warsaw Treaty, which aims to combat terrorism in the European Union, we should stress that at the moment in the current period - and we do not know for how long yet - the European Union is in danger only of Islamic terrorism. In other words, terrorism in the European Union - and this is unfortunately confirmed almost daily - is about Islamic fundamentalists who, through various terrorist acts, are actually trying to impose their own customs and customs on Europe, on the Europe of values. On the issue of money trafficking, it is important - and the legislator could do so with a better approach - to make sure that money is transferred from companies that transfer money, i.e. from non-bank financial institutions. I think it is possible in this area, if the state is diligent, to realise that there are such illegal activities and money laundering. For the second part of the legislation, I shall refer to some articles as well as to the other two parts. Article 33 concerns requests for the placement of minors from foreign nationals, whether unaccompanied or unaccompanied. This provision poses the risk of abuse, so that we have massive positions in our country of such minors as foreigners. I have already stressed that this provision is a form of 'corporate' for the deletion of the national identity of the resident in Greece. As for the third part, I shall refer to two articles. With regard to the article which provides that the suspect has the right to access a lawyer, yes, it has some positive elements, but I would say that it is a heterogeneous provision in favour of the suspect and potential defendants in the course, to the detriment of what has been indicted or filed with a lawsuit or petition. Article 50 concerns the information of a defendant to a third party. In other words, the right to inform the accused third person is reserved. Because it is not precisely what this third person, which could be - and that is what we may be - a non-governmental organisation, which most of them have a sinful past and present, we consider that this should somehow be excluded from this provision. I would also like to refer to the same article on another issue which provides for the information of the consular authority without undue delay on a case involving a particular defendant. I would like to say here that, because there is a question and it may arise as a matter of state security, this information should not be given to the consular authority without delay, i.e. without delay. We agree that it may take place, but we need to weigh the various prevalences of state security, which I think is prevalent. Finally, in the fourth part, there is positive elements in Article 69 concerning the protection of victims of special needs during the criminal proceedings. Very briefly, I shall refer to some of the ministerial amendments that have been tabled. The amendment tabled by the Minister for Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, Mr. Nicholas Papapas, is essentially a confession of defeat of the Minister, since the Council of State considered Law No.4339/2015 as unconstitutional and effectively dragged to an abrogation with a camouflage of an interesting technical issue for the high and typical resolution of broadcasting. With regard to the amendment tabled for regional airports, it is well known that the Golden Dawn is perpendicular to the assignment of airports to foreign interests and is well known to be contrary to this type of agreement, so we will vote against it. The same applies to the issue of the TESC, where this amendment concerns the competitive process of privatising it. Because we are in favour of the view that the IPCC should be nationalised, we are firmly opposed to privatisation, and we will therefore vote against it. Finally, I am going to refer to an amendment by the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy, which clearly has some positive elements, and we would like to see it positively and in the vote on this legislation. Indeed, it has some positive elements which we evaluate and I believe we will be able to reach a positive decision on this. Finally, I would like to say that the Golden Dawn continues unrelentingly and fearlessly, ever stronger than ever, aimed at defending the worthy system of the Greek nation, an undeniable struggle against the political representatives of the internationalism in Greece, the backbone of foreign towers, against the so-called 'constitutional arch', which is a false constitutional arch. The undeniable struggle will be as the final victory, the victory of Greek nationalism, the golden dawn of Hellenism.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. My colleague Mr. Ioannis Delis from the Communist Party of Greece has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, as we have said, this is, in fact, a multi-project of the Ministry of Justice, which does nothing but harmonises and incorporate into Greek political decisions by different institutions of the European Union. In this context, therefore, the positive attitude of the urban parties in this bill was absolutely expected. The first part of the bill, which is the greatest - the thirty-two of its eighty so many articles - is also what defines its reactionary character and dictates us and the negative attitude. In no case has this place been the one that less concerned the discussion between the urban parties at the previous meetings of the committee. With this first part of the bill, therefore, the Warsaw Convention of 2005 is incorporated into Greek law, supplemented by two relevant decisions - framework and a directive of the European Union. This is another international convention of the Council of Europe together with the three decisions, as we have said, which, in the context of the construction of the well-known reactive area of freedom, security and justice, refer to ways of combating international crime, in particular through the freezing and confiscation of property in the fight against money laundering from criminal activities. However, in the explanatory statement to date, in just three years' time, we have already had three laws in place, and at the same time they are working to deal with this phenomenon and other transnational bodies such as the Financial Action Group, the FAFT, the Council of Europe's Committee of Experts, MONEYVAL, the UN etc. So the question comes in a fierce way. What results have we had all these years? Has the phenomenon of washing black money been limited, and if not why? Is it because this phenomenon of 'black' money - we, of the capitalist system itself - are not tackled at its root, so it is still recycled and there is always a step ahead of any control mechanisms? How can it be seen at its root, however, when the European Union in which you are sworn to, is the freedom to move capital a good news? Offshore companies grow up like mushrooms. The anonymity of the company shares is protected. Isn't that ultimately the greenhouse of the concentration and rinsing of the 'black' money? These, though, you don’t even think to touch them. But the essential point in the Warsaw Convention and the bill is something else and the JRC does not go unnoticed. This international crime has been included - and with particular emphasis, in particular - the so-called 'terrorism', and this has been the case since 2005. Then it was voted, then this contract was signed. But what does the European Union think of as terrorism? Only the convicted murderous attacks that are multiplying or even the labor popular mobilisations and actions of the class movement which are questioning the current exploitive system and which it methodically criminalizes? When the terrorists of the European Union are increasingly showing serotype serotypes of 'violent radicalisation', 'extreme ideologies', is this not a campaign for the risk of criminalization of ideological perceptions? For the European Union, the term terrorism is becoming a convenient tire, and this is dangerous for people's freedoms and must not be underestimated at all. Besides, let's not hide. The activities of the so-called Islamic terrorist groups are, in the end, an element of the imperialist war in the century that we live openly and is now being exploited as a pretext for imperialist interventions. At the same time, however, the action of these organisations is also being used to strengthen the repressive mechanisms of a number of urban states, but also to ideologically prepare workers for their countries' potential involvement in new imperialist interventions in the name of always fighting terrorism. In the first part of the contract, that is to say, two provisions which we consider to be particularly negative: First, the provision of Article 6(2), which is added as a subparagraph to the Criminal Code, according to which, when determining the sentence by the Greek courts, the irrevocable judgments of courts of other Member States of the Convention are also taken into account, especially for the financing of terrorism. We note here that the previous convention, which today replaces, had ratified forty-seven Member States of the Council of Europe together with Australia and Kazakhstan. They were states with quite different views, approaches, a different criminal system on this issue, and with different legal and political data, which quite often contain fewer guarantees of the rights of the accused. We therefore consider that not only wrong but also dangerous, should be taken into account by the Greek courts, but also without control, the penalties imposed on other States of the Convention. Also particularly negative is the provision of Article 11(2) for the partial abandonment of the double criminal principle, which concerns the freezing and confiscation of assets for thirty-two serious offences between them and the 'terrorist' acts. In our view, this provision objectively opens up the dangerous path to the gradual abandonment of this basic principle, which traditionally governs the law of judicial assistance. For Article 9, concerning the reservations and statements of the Greek Government concerning certain provisions of the Convention, they shall not ultimately dismiss or restrict the reactionary and dangerous nature of the contract. The second part of the bill is incorporated into Greek law part of the European Union regulation on the procedure for the placement of minors in institutions or sponsored families from and to Member States of the European Union. First of all, we consider it problematic that the prosecutor should have it and not the competent court, while at the same time we are being asked a lot about how the total cost of the child's placement is covered at the same time, since the bill only refers to the first quarter of the year, when we are well aware of the obsolete structures of child protection in our country. Here, of course, we must say that the interest shown by the European Union or by the Greek governments for children without a family proves to be hypocritical, since in the capitalist system of wealth accumulated in increasingly fewer hands, the commercialisation of human needs and social injustice and poverty and orphanne and misery of all the imperialist wars are multiplied. If, in fact, you were interested in child protection, then you would not hand it over to NGOs, entrepreneurs and professionals, but it would be the sole responsibility of the state. Neither would you strangle with sub-financing, and this still the inadequate state system of child protection, nor would assumptions and adoption be tragically delayed because of the minimum staff, leaving young children to institutions and people and families who want to help as foster parents, prevent them from doing so, since your policy is breaking their incomes. No effective protection, therefore, of children without a family is the draft law. It is a simple management of the acute problems and nothing more. The third part of the bill incorporates the European Union directive on criminal cooperation into Greek law. We note here that although certain rights of communication are generally provided for with a lawyer or third parties of the suspect or accused person, the same articles provide for the circumvention of these rights. We will say again that the most problematic provision for us in Part Three is the one introduced by Articles 48 and 52, allowing the defendant to resign from the appointment of a lawyer. For the fourth part of the bill on the protection of victims of crime, experience shows that its aims, so greatly formulated, often become mere words, since at the same time the shrinking of social protection structures continues. In order to stand by the term'reparatory justice' introduced by Articles 55 and 63. What does that mean? Nothing but a form of so-called "criminal conciliation", which turns a crime into a simple personal difference between the victim and the victim, removing his social dimension, including the convict of the perpetrator. That is why we consider the contents of this term at least to be problematic, and the specific form of reinstatement of justice and given the socio-economic inequalities in the present system is very questionable if this reinstatement of justice can work in favour of a weak victim or, ultimately, it will lead us to the opposite result. About the five child houses now. It was the five independent offices, which were problematic from the outset, since they did not cover the whole of the country, but with your own legal systems, "improvement" or rather intervention, you made it worse. You have even removed the reported growth - even small - of the positions that will operate in them and thus set up new structures, without even a new staff position. These will be served exclusively by recycling the existing staff from other relevant services, creating even greater problems with them, as if they were not already understaffed, as if their staff were not running and not reaching. I think it is understandable, because the JRC is voting against this bill and, above all, because - the working people's movement will have to act more decisively on the issues that this bill raises. In the remaining year, I will deal with some of the amendments. I hope that we have the right to secondary education, Mr President, to say more. I want to stand up and start with the amendment of the Ministry of Shipping. The point is that the presents of the governments to shipowners do not have a stop with SYRIZA. This time you give them the free and fresh youth work of students at the maritime schools of the Merchant Navy, and here it is no coincidence that this Golden Dawn has chosen to speak with good words just now. In their first even barbaro, educational journeys to the oceans of the earth, of course, work is normally done, but in conditions that are literally far from far from working, since these students do not have the collective contracts of seafarers, despite the fact that they cover jobs in the organic compositions of caravans, which are also reduced, by increasing the risks to human lives in the sea. For all this, then, you set them the wages with the glossy sum of EUR 600. At the same time, shipowners are subsidising for this work every student with 880 euros, please! Not bad for them! And because eating comes the appetite, the shipowners are asking for more. With diluted enthusiasm, they ask the Ministry of Shipping that this working time of educational travel should not be counted as pensionable time but should be redeemed by the seafarers themselves before they retired. Every capitalist's dream of having workers' slaves, shipowners say so now openly. As for the majorities of upgrading alternating maritime education, it is nothing more than a further adjustment to the requirements of logistics for the minimum training of seafarers in accordance with the 2010 Manila International Convention, since this will ensure a cheaper workforce with due time - and therefore expendable - knowledge of the eternal maximisation of the profitability of shipping capital. All this government in the same amendment serves them as the encouragement of the cooperation of employers - workers, even seeking a national objective to exploit capitalist capitalism and subdue the new shift in the working class of students in the strategy of armaments. Not to talk here about the anachronistic curriculum of maritime schools, their military-type administration, their enormous shortages in teachers, laboratory infrastructure and so on. We are voting against this anti-educational amendment to finance shipowners and we are calling for their funding to be stopped now, for funds to be increased for purely public maritime training for all the qualifications of seafarers, for schools and the Ministry of Education to be determined exclusively by training trips, for ships to be laid down in the rules of procedure, for all the issues relating to students and all the students of maritime schools to finally be integrated into collective labour agreements, for them to be insured to the public insurer and other maritime pension funds and, of course, to be fully covered in all health issues. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I would like a minute. For the amendment of the Ministry of Environment and Energy after recalling our radical and strategic opposition to the so-called 'liberation of the energy market', which leads to privatisation - and from your own government, of course - we can see that, with this amendment, it opens up the game of the forthcoming DESCRIP competition for the gas transmission system operator in our country for one or many candidates - we do not yet know - since the amendment adds to the 2011 Act and related legal persons. We would very much like to know from you what this business structure is, which you are now giving him the opportunity to participate in the competition, while under the earlier provision of the law it was not. You can tell us now. We're waiting. He's going to go public in the next period anyway. However, above all, what we want to ask the government is exactly what it looks at with this amendment, what exactly and exactly what types of investments are you waiting for in the gas transmission network and what impact the government thinks there will be on the popular layers of the forthcoming privatisation of the CRS. Will the gas price for popular households be reduced or increased? For the amendment of the three ministries, finance, defence and infrastructure, given once again our radical and clear opposition to the privatisation of state infrastructures, how much more so for critical infrastructures such as airports and ports, we have asked you to bring us - as you had to expect - and the terms of the convention of the sovereign law of which you are amending, but you have done what you have not heard. In the explanatory statement - and we have just heard the Minister, Mr Tsakalotos - you are talking about clarifications given and obvious errors in the body of the Convention with the 'FRAPORT' corrected. However, in the accompanying report from the General Accounting Office of the State, the same amendment expressly states that amendments are to be made to specific articles in airport concessions and refer to among other things five. So there's more. We distinguish the third of the five, which says that the State is responsible for any missing defects found in public works, during or before the issue of the receipt protocol, rather than the temporary receipt provided for in the contract with the ‘FRAPORT’. This, of course, is not a simple clarification. It is a substantial change in the relevant condition of the Convention and in favour of the 'FRAPORT'. By the way, when will this final receipt be? Mr President, because I have exhausted my time for the other amendments, I will be placed in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u39	You have requested time from your dentistry, so you can continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u40	Okay. To conclude with a comment on the amendment by the Minister for Digital Policy, Mr Papa. It is well known that we, too, have criticised the Pappa law - so it was called - on a completely different basis from the other parties, and we voted against that law. It was essentially attempting to redistribute the television pie with the Minister's control, seeking a more government-friendly environment and, above all, these television media will always remain in the hands of the large capital, which defines their content with regard to information and entertainment, but above all with regard to the effects that this process would have on workers' rights. We said, then, that the victims of this redistribution, which had begun and were under way, would be the workers themselves. For us, then, the essence was not who would control this redistribution, whether it would be the Minister or the so-called independent EPA, but the same possession of the means by the big entrepreneurs. What have we seen all this time? What have we lived for? And I mean, in spite of the legislative rigour. Media and television channels are changing their hands, of course remaining in the hands of big businessmen. Above all, what we see and what we see in the workers are hundreds of redundancies in the payroll and the mispaid of the others. Today's amendment transferring certain responsibilities from the Minister to the PSE does not change either the substance of the law or of course seek to change the situation of the workers. However, because the over-responsibility of the Minister in the relevant law also met our criticism at the time, without, as we said, being on its main points, we are therefore opting to vote'residents' in this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u42	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u43	Minister, would you like to begin with?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u44	No, Mr President, I would like to refer to an amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u45	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u46	Mr President, the amendment under number 1070 by six SYRIZA Members, concerning the extension of the deadline of No 4447/2016, has been tabled. As was then given, it was also given today, because the original law, n.3842/2010, provided for the closure of dutyfree stores. With the amendment tabled by my fellow Members, an extension is given until 30 June 2018. We believe that this amendment is absolutely right. We will accept it, first and foremost, because it is in favour of the national economy, but also because there are too many jobs. Otherwise these workers would have a direct biopollution problem. I'm taking this opportunity to make a further report. It was previously heard by the special speaker of the Golden Dawn that his party would be disembarked in an adventurous struggle. I would like to say that the unparalleled struggle is intertwined with the struggles of our people in the early 1960s, when the then government and the paradox of the right by the methods followed, were trying to whack the people's will, immediately after the elections that made up the EDAS a forceful opposition. I would like to say, therefore, that some not only appear indiscriminate in this Chamber, but are also being convicted, because history is not forgery and has left its fingerprints in the popular struggles that have taken place and in the efforts of the people for democratisation. Let us not forget that that unparalleled struggle had blood and dead from the conflicts of democratic citizens with the para-state and the extreme right, represented by these gentlemen in Parliament today.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Minister. Mr Athanasios Papachristopoulos has the floor for 15 minutes, a special speaker from the Independent Greeks.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to comment on two of the amendments, and indeed on the occasion of what Mr Papatheodorou said. First of all, the Pappa law was not abolished, but only one amendment 2a. However, the special speaker failed to say the whole story, namely that in 2010 the Plenary Assembly of the Council of State said rightly: "Lords are emiting illegally and this must be stopped". It took six - seven years, then, to correct this illegality. Shouldn't he be corrected? This is not what Mr Papatheodorou tells us, and to remember historically, because we lived through the night and months, the government fought to form the PSE, which had been completely deorganised. I don't want to remind you that he was a life-long president and there were three people left and he went by saying. We did the self-evident thing. We knew the ERR had to make the contest. Who's been blocking the creation of the ESS for months? Of course not the government. A great dilemma was then brought to the Council, to the entire Greek people and to the government. Lilies are judged. Respectfully, I am talking about the Council of State and the government is doing well and respects its decisions. What did the Council of State say then? That it is illegal for Amendment No 2a, which enabled the secretariat to do the contest as if we hadn't known. Who was in the way? Should the illegality still be perpetuated by illegally emitting large channels for decades? Do they play a role in democracy, yes or no? Again, I'm not judging the decision. I respect her. However, he did nothing more and nothing less then the government. The self-evident thing did. Today after the decision that he has respected and is a tangible proof of who, in fact, respects democratic rules, withdraws Amendment 2a and goes to the PSE. I'm closing my parentheses, so we can talk about it all and not half. As far as I am concerned - because I have heard a lot - the shipowners, I personally believe that there must be rules on the market. Palme acted in Sweden. A social point of reference for the whole planet and rules on the market. Then they weren't going over-profit in a hundred pockets. The 'ERICSSON' and the 'SHARP' were paid and the 'VOLVO' and everyone was normal and there was a social state, education, health, welfare in Sweden so much that, thirty-two years after the Palmo murder, the Swedish people still receive for this man and I believe the planet. I'm saying that because there's been a lot of talk about the shipowners. Should anyone ask, how does a country, which has the most powerful fleet on the planet, not to build our ships either in Perama or elsewhere? Some people have responsibilities for this, and we have to think about it? I did not say that they only have the responsibilities, because we would have over two hundred and fifty thousand jobs, and we do not have them. I'm closing this parentheses too. I hear the word terrorism in the first part of the bill, and here I am going to be the advocate of the JRC. The JRC has just chosen, sitting outside and flying stones. Some of us think you're coming in and working in the European Union. Their right to respect. I would like to say that we hear in the first part the word terrorism and pass it - forgive me the popular expression - 'duku'. I would like to remind you again that terrorism is a story that we should see in the face. Every day we have terrorist attacks, not only in developed countries but also in developing countries. Very good is what is proposed in the first part, for everything that he tells us and we should have done for a long time. But there's something else we need to see, because Aristotle said politics is the queen of science, but when it's done with principles. Why am I saying it? When wealth is concentrated on very few individuals and when politics has given its place in the economy, fate will be done. Apparently, they arrange guns, oil tankers and others, the ones who rebuild. They don't care. They are setting up dictatorships in developing countries. They do not count the weak layers in the developed areas at all, and we see wealth accumulated in minimums and population movements. The others are born alive dead. So they're leaving, and they're coming this way. We're collecting it. The extreme right movements flank everywhere. Fortunately in France too - and we were all happy - and in Britain they disappeared. We see that they don't have as much ground as we fear. That's a good sign. However, this story of concentration of wealth does not cease, to create terrorism. I'm sorry to say that. Shouldn't we once see that? This first part is nice, very nice, adaptive. Is the problem solved? I don't think so, when we don't dare see the heart of the problem. You'll tell me. We're a small country. Can we? Oh, no. As far as our potential is concerned, however, we can stop concentrating wealth on a hundred families for forty years and a few sturgeons at the side. I'm the one who's not left and I don't need the left-hand sign. I believe honesty and morality have no sign. Where and where? I would also like to say that on one point - and I am referring to the first part - the court is given the opportunity to decide whether the objects raised can be used for the public interest, for social purposes and for the satisfaction of the victim. It is indeed a promoted position - and it is a tangible proof that this adaptation to the Warsaw Convention should have made it much earlier. But I want to stop in the second place, which is purely social. We see that the social state touches all ministries. This is where the Justice Department touches. It refers to the placement of minors in institutions, foster families and, indeed, it is a very advanced legislation whether we want it or not, which we should have already adapted for years. I read somewhere that the procedure for the safe return of the minor to the alien is specified, since he has passed... etc. We have all recently lived with the refugee crisis, young people not only having these rights but not even in their lives to have nothing in the sun fate either. In other words, it's a good theories. In practice, what did we do? What has the European Union done? Again, don't get confused with the JRC. We go in, we work and we improve. I'm not sitting outside throwing stones. But there are points I can imagine right now that they're breaking bones because we've been seeing them properly. We saw minors drowning. Is it very important, because they are not members of the European Union? It shouldn't have for me. Are they people yes or no? Let's go down to the third place, which for me is decisive. It gives this third party real democracy to access a lawyer, a third-party information right, and all that. I think there's no man on this planet who won't accept them. Here I don't want to remember any old incidents that the defendant didn't have in the sun and goes by saying. But I would like to dwell very much on the fourth part, which, in my opinion, is also the most important of this bill, where it really deals with the rights of people who are victims of crime. I am delighted to read that it gives them too many rights and facilities. Here, Minister, I would like to add the following: why are the free translator and other donations not being extended everywhere? You know these people don't have a fate in the sun. They have problems finding a lawyer and they will have to do so very quickly if, in fact, we believe in their rights, we have to make that clear. I like psychological support, housing, medical examinations. I expect to see them in practice. It is a great deal of talk and, indeed, I expect to see these things in practice, because it is a step, indeed, of the quality of democracy. We still have cases of crimes of a racist nature. Are we talking here about three - four countries of the European Union, or are they racistly treating these people? The theory comes here and we see the act a little different. But I'm saying again that you come in and work to improve this situation. I believe that this adjustment is necessary and necessary. It should have been a long time ago. Finally, because we are living historical moments, I would like to say that I was pleased, because most of the institutions, with the exception of one or two who are permanently opposed, saw this move positively. I was also pleased that all parties, with few exceptions, had a mild climate as they saw the essence of parliamentaryism. I want to wish for something, now that things have gone on a different path and we don't have the noose in the neck - we have difficulties for God's sake, nobody has celebrated either Grexit or his parentheses or the various catastrophes. Of course, catastrophe has become second in nature to some, but I think that slowly the real opposition will take its place. There must be opposition. We make mistakes too. Some must point them out and correct them, but at a truly decent parliamentary level. I can see that slowly, and I welcome it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. My colleague, Mr Ioannis Saridis, from the Centron Association, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u50	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are increasingly legislating by way of derogation from any general or other special provisions of any other law. We have learned to "express - legislate", to correct errors, manipulations and proliferation. We have created bad precedents, agreeing to 'pre-legal' measures under sect. We recently had to legislate, just to change the explanatory statement of a package of prerequisites, so as to reassure the lenders and to ensure that we do not look at stealing them. We have reached the point, that urgency and urgency have become the norm and that they are an exception to plenary, such as the specific bill which comes under the normal procedure. Unfortunately, however, there is no regularity on the substance of the procedure. The bill under consideration brought by the Ministry of Justice allegedly under the normal procedure is only not normal. After the despair which the government has held up in all the sanctions for international treaties, adding to them every time a whole lot of unnecessary, delayed and always unspeakable amendments, we are now taking a step further in the 'catching' and 'harvesting' of European directives and sanctions for international treaties. There are four incomprehensible international obligations of the country in today's bill, so to get it over with, so to finish. As if that were not enough, we did not make any effort to adapt these very serious texts to the Greek reality. They have been hand-written for word directly from European texts and without even considering their compatibility with the texts in force in our country. We have introduced them to the committees, without taking care to ensure that the debate on them leaves room for improvements and changes. What has been added to this bill, Mr Minister, or what has changed to it as a result of the allegedly fruitful parliamentary procedure? Nothing but the well-known and expected last-minute amendments, amendments with a unique common sense the government's objective of extending its margin to meet its obligation to find and implement sustainable solutions. Instead, the Ministry of Justice introduces a last-minute amendment one day before the plenary vote in a bill of its own competence, which it was proud to have brought to the House under normal procedures. But I'm coming back to the bill. As was evident at the hearing of the institutions, Greece once again is late to do the self-evident thing. It is, for example, unacceptable in 2017 to require eighteen visits and interviews of victims in the legal process in cases of child abuse. These children are forced to live their nightmares again and again for the sake of bureaucracy. The Prosecutor of the Ice Bay and the President of the "Smile of the Child" told us as a rule that in many cases, the victims continue to suffer for twelve to fifteen years by means of bureaucratic procedures. Normal and next many children to prolong the process in half, as it is as painful as their initial abuse. With the incorporation of this European directive, we have been trying to minimize this so-called secondary abuse. This is the directive 29/2012, which is the fourth part of the draft law, which concerns the establishment of minimum standards, on rights, on support, on the protection of victims of crime, and on the replacement of the Council of Europe framework decision 220. In the first part of the bill we are called upon to ratify the Warsaw Treaty. The Centro Association openly and warmly supports the country's European path. We therefore believe that Greece must have a common step with the other European countries in the very serious problems it creates - and in the economies of all the states, of course, and in the communities of the people - the circulation of illegal, black money. A collective effort has been launched for some time to deal with the phenomenon, which is continuing until now with this adaptation to Greek law by means of the ratification of the Warsaw Treaty, which we are voting in favour of. The second part of the bill is headed as the basic title: ‘Requirements for the placement of minors in an institution or donor family to and from Member States of the European Union’. SYRIZA's rapporteur put it very well. We have a retrospective legality, a practice already in place. As the people who are directly concerned and in practice this bill have been placed, so I will just say, that they have supported their hopes on this many people who work for the protection of the child. Citizens' assistants made it clear that this directive does not leave any further comment, except that we are late to incorporate it and we do well to do so even late. The same applies to the third part of the bill, entitled to incorporate Directive 48/2013, on the right of access to a lawyer in the context of the execution of European Arrest Warrants. The rights of those who are deprived of their freedom and the way in which a civilised state ensures that they are protected, indicate whether justice operates effectively or not under the rules of the rule of law. Greece is also being tested at institutional level because of the refugee and migration crisis, and the Greek Parliament should actively strengthen the structures that aim to curb the phenomenon, within the limits of democracy. In closing my report on the main bill, I would like to point out that we have to support it in order to take even half a step forward, when we think we are losing the opportunity to take two steps forward. We shall therefore vote in favour of it in principle. With regard to the amendments incorporated into this bill, as some of them have already been notified by the relevant committee meetings, we have to say the following. With regard to Amendment 1056 on extending the deadline for objecting to the contents of forest maps, we had, of course, warned you in a valid style and we and the other parties in opposition, how this extension would be needed. It may not even be enough for this extension that we are giving today. In any case, we consider it unacceptable that SYRIZA, the Government, is trying to justify the need for this extension, claiming that it could not imagine the problems that would arise from the process of raising forest maps. The opposition in here and in the committees had warned the government about this problem. Amendment number 1063. ‘Possibility of joining CSR long-term unemployed registered in OAED registers fifty-five to sixty-seven years old’. In accordance with this amendment, the Minister will be able to find work for the unemployed in the public and in the municipalities by means of a simple decision. This is how we understand it. Is that a good answer? Is this the solution to the problem? How much will this amendment reduce unemployment? On what criteria will the Minister decide, who will give a job? With what will be defined in his own ministerial decision? Either way, the unemployment problem remains. It's real. It's for granted. If we could help these people who have crossed an age limit and are it extremely difficult to find them a job, are there no other ways? Should we leave it to the Minister's decision? Will the Minister judge who, when and where will it work? Nevertheless, precisely because our time is difficult and our years are angry, we will be voting in favour of this amendment, even to strengthen this one or the two or the five who may find a job. Amendment number 1064. Public Administration Inspector General. You are trying to make very serious changes to a neural part of the public sector with a simple amendment, without debate, without consultation, without placement of the relevant bodies. You do not shield the public interest so with night-related amendments. We will not support this amendment. Amendment 1065. Yes, we agree to receive the educational allowance in their practice by the future officers of the Merchant Navy. Amendment 1066: Yes, we never disagreed with the government's obligation to respect the decisions of the CSR. But what's the PSE doing? Why this delay? Amendment No 1068 concerns the ratification of contracts at regional airports. In March 2017, fourteen questions were asked by the speaker from this Chair on the issue of the privatisation of these airports. I asked a question to every ministry about matters relating to it. Other ministries have stated unreservedly, but others have answered me and others, after four months, have not answered them. Is it possible to ask us, with last-minute amendments, to ratify part of the most privatization convention ever made in the country? The government has yet to explain exactly how this privatisation took place. There is still no argument from the majority as to whether it was in the interest of the country what was done. Not whether or not it should be done, but whether it is in the country's interest. He refuses to come to the Chamber and show us exactly how he finally took the line between selling and using regional airports. Amendment No 1072: With this amendment you are asking us to agree with a necessary extension by the end of 2017 in a provision which expired on 30 June - and which we agree - which states: 'Under the derogation of any general or specific provision on the provision of health services, the possibility is provided by hospital suppliers'. But that's not how the problem is solved! This is not the way to solve the problems! Coming up and coming back. We come back every six months, every seven months, every eight months. Is that a government? Is that practical? Is there a design in all that we live in the year 2017? Is there a design? Is there a responsibility? Is there responsibility from people who manage the fate of Greek citizens? Amendment No 1073: This is an amendment brought by the Ministry of Justice. As such, it shall ensure that the necessary checks are carried out in the management of the amounts withheld from the mortgage equipment.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u51	I've withdrawn it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u52	Oh, you've withdrawn it. Excuse me. In closing, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, are you satisfied with the way you legislate in this Chamber? Are you satisfied with the way you rule? You say: 'We are done with negotiation and we are now heading towards development. We see the way in which we see growth." How, then, do you see growth? What is the design you have? Have you mentioned him in this Chamber? Have you mentioned him on the radio on the TVs your representatives are coming out? They say what the plan you have or are just looking at development? You've forgotten society for two and a half years. You have been engaged in a debt for two and a half years, the entire government and you have forgotten about the economy. Debt regulation and quantitative relaxation have become dreams far away. Let the government now understand in practice and not in theory that the exit from the committee will come only with the development of the real economy. The battle, ladies and gentlemen, is on the commercial roads, it is on the crafts, it is on the field, it is on the factories, it is on the figs! The real battle is being fought in the seas. And this battle is being lost, here today, because of excessive taxes, due to bureaucracy, due to a lack of planning. You are, ladies and gentlemen of the government, taking away from development efforts in the way you are acting, in the way you legislate, in the way you govern. When you understand this and see the truth and tell the truth, then perhaps the country can emerge. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Spyridon Dannelis from the river has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the amount of money spent every year on drugs and crime amounts to approximately 1.6 trillion dollars, according to an investigation by the United Nations Office. This amounts to 2.6% of world GDP, while the International Monetary Fund assumes that the rate can also be 5%. Only this is enough to understand that the Council of Europe Convention on money laundering, research, confiscation and confiscation of crime products and the financing of terrorism that we are debating today is extremely important, because it is extremely critical and the current situation, a time when we are seeing the vertical increase in terrorism that tends to become modern and endemic scourges for the whole of the Western world. This contract of the first section of the bill is the first International Convention for the Prevention and Control of Wastewashing and the Financing of Terrorism. In particular, it introduces arrangements to help the prosecution authorities have direct access to financial information relating to assets of criminal organisations, including terrorist groups. The second part of the bill - Articles 10 to 32 - incorporates Directive 42/2014 on the freezing and confiscation of organs and proceeds of crime in the European Union, and includes adaptive final provisions. It should be stressed that confiscation of criminal products is considered one of the most effective tools for suppressing organised crime. This Directive provides more extensive opportunities for the competent authorities and rules are simplified. It will now be sufficient to estimate that the assets currently in existence are more likely to have come from criminal activity than from a legal activity. Of course, it also raises a number of issues in relation to fundamental legal guarantees, which are, of course, a conquest of the Western world, Europe more specifically. As an indication, there are no weightings of proportionality in the judgment on freezing or confiscation of assets, even without prior conviction, there is provision for the possibility of a preventive freezing of assets for the purpose of the future confiscation or confiscation, if a risk of evasion is identified by the authorities. Finally, it is envisaged that assets belonging to third parties may be seized under certain conditions. These regulations strengthen the possibility of preventive measures and we therefore seek to have greater effectiveness. We must take into account, however, that such projections are typical of the transition of the European Union to a new era. As we have said in the debate in committee, the removal from the years of innocence is the necessity for real risks to be addressed, that is to say, that of organised crime and, above all, the escalation of tension and the risk of terrorism. Unfortunately, through this need for effectiveness, we seem to be moving towards a number of reductions in relation to fundamental legal guarantees, guarantees on which the entire structure of the liberal Western state has been based. The light of the serious and subtle dangers that we face, fatality, causes them to fall apart from undeclared warfare. Articles 33 to 46 concern the application of Article 56 of Council Regulation (EC) No 221/2003 of the European Union. The Regulation provides that when a child is to be placed, on the basis of a judicial decision, in an institution or in a contracted family and that such placement is to be carried out in another Member State, the competent court shall consult the central authority or other competent authority of that Member State in so far as the intervention by a public authority is provided for in that Member State for internal cases in which children are placed. It should be noted that in Greece there is a complete division of responsibilities in the organisation of institutions and structures for child protection. There are public facilities for child protection, including the roofs of minors, the protection of minors of Athens, Piraeus and Heraklion under the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights. In addition, however, to the public sector institutions, two other categories of child protection units are institutions of private law, which are non-profit-making, which include roofs and hosting institutions that fall within charity or clubs, children's villages and church institutions that operate under the responsibility of the Archdiocese or regional metropolitans of the Greek Orthodox Church. According to the latest published figures, the number of hospital children in public institutions is close to a thousand, while private and ecclesiastical institutions do not have official data. It is estimated, however, that the number of hospitalized children in them is almost twice as high. Minister, it is very positive - as you said in the debate in the committee - that it is up to the regulation of all the issues relating to the full, clear and true picture of the number of children, their registration and the registration of those wishing to adopt children from these institutions. This multi-currency situation, of course, creates a number of problems. For example, there are no minimum national standards for the functioning of both the public and the private sectors, in the absence of a code of conduct with defined, uniform standards of practice, huge disparity in how all these institutions operate, and, of course, in the educational models applied mainly to private institutions and to ecclesiastical institutions, incomplete staffing, in the absence of or incomplete record keeping, or in the absence of an individual care plan for each child. We hope that all these individual issues will quickly find a solution, an answer, because they are issues that are of extremely sensitive concern and, of course, identify the culture of a country and a society. For the rest: The third part of the bill - Articles 47 to 53 - relates to Directive 48/2013 on the right of access to a lawyer in criminal proceedings and a procedure for the execution of the European Arrest Warrant. This is the third in a series of directives focusing on the defending rights of accused persons and suspects and are obviously positive and necessary regulations. The fourth section - Articles 54 to 69 - introduces almost two years' delay in the Greek legal system to the Community directive 29/2012, known as ‘the Victims Directive’, which deals with the adoption of the minimum necessary rules on the rights of victims of crime in the context of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters with an international dimension. It should be noted that the debate on remedial or remedial justice is almost thirty years old. Once crime is committed or criminal proceedings are carried out in the European Union, the victims must be recognised as the rights enshrined in the 'the Victims Directive'. In relation to the last chapter, the fifth, in particular Article 70, has an obligation involving four Ministries and two legal entities governed by public law and concerns the obligation to train and train all those involved in a criminal procedure. They are extremely positive forecasts. There is, however, the following question, as we have mentioned in the debate in committee: in order not to keep the whole of this abundance, the specific and clear obligations of each one must be laid down very quickly, as well as a time-limit - to be predetermined - for the implementation of the forecasts for both the bodies of central authority, namely the ministries and the associations involved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, is there a request from the parliamentary representatives to speak now? Mr. Mavrota, would you like to speak now or later?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u56	Let's hear the Minister first.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u57	Mrs. Vaki, would you like to speak now?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u58	In the end.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u59	So let us move on to the speakers who have already been written. Mr Georgios Papaliou has the floor from SYRIZA for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u60	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Warsaw Convention of the Council of Europe on legalisation, detection, confiscation, confiscation of proceeds from criminal activities is ratified by this bill. The latest developments made it necessary to update previous contracts and adapt them to the new conditions created by rapid technological development, the development of techniques of dirty, illegal money laundering and the spread of the parallel problem of terrorist financing. At this point I would like to point out and agree with previous speakers that the concept of 'terrorism' is indeed relevant. This is because the perspective under which violent acts are treated with political and social backgrounds is different, depending on the position and perceptions of those who approach them. In this context, it would be necessary, although extremely difficult, to define the term 'terrorism'. In any case, however, the arrangements of this draft law which include terrorism as a precondition for the synergy of legal consequences will be judged when they are implemented. This Convention is intended to cover the gap created by previous international conventions providing for measures to combat rubbish, focusing on repression and international cooperation, but without conferring such importance on preventive and other measures, such as the construction of specific financial control units, the recovery and distribution of the assets created, etc. This draft law improves the legislative framework for taking and implementing the measures at national level with a view to ensuring more effective identification of the organs and products of crime, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, widening the scope of their commitment and confiscation, in particular, to the extent that they are linked to organised forms of criminal behaviour. [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis, takes over the presidential office.]] In this context, it improves the way in which temporary measures are to be imposed at the request of another Member State, when the State requesting assistance has begun criminal or confiscation and freezing procedures and calls for the freezing or confiscation of assets. The Minister for Justice is authorised to establish, by decision, a central agency responsible for managing the acquired assets, which may include their use in the public interest, for social purposes or for satisfying the victims of criminal activities, as well as the effective management of the assets committed in the light of possible confiscation. Furthermore, the necessary amendments to the Criminal Code and to Greece's reservations are provided for in the regulation which stipulates that States which consider a commitment request from another Member State are bound "by the conclusions on the facts" only in so far as the commitment "from the conclusions on the facts" does not contravene the Constitution and the fundamental principles of the legal system. In addition, the principle of mutual recognition is developed, which is the basis of judicial cooperation in both civil and criminal matters of competence of the Member States of the Union. Cooperation between the Member States requires mutual confidence that decisions to be recognised and implemented will always be taken in accordance with the principles of legality, subsidiarity and proportionality and that the rights of the parties or third parties concerned are safeguarded. The second part deals with the procedure required to follow when a Member State - a Member State - of the European Union sends a request to the competent authority of our country for the placement of minors in institutions or donors, but also vice versa. The procedure is developed in three stages: It is defined that the prosecutor of minors approves or rejects, by action, the request for the child to be placed in a particular institution, a structure of child protection or a foster family in Greece. It introduces an application to the Athens Unique Court of First Instance for recognition of the validity of the judgment in question. The establishment of a minor in the institution, the structure of child protection or the foster family may be carried out only by a decision of the Monomele Court of First Instance, which recognises the enforceability of the decision of the Member State when it becomes irrevocable. In addition, in Part Three, reference is made to the incorporation of Directive 2013/48, which was adopted in the political context of the conservation and development of an area of freedom, security and democracy. It shall be ensured that any suspect or accused person enjoys the rights and guarantees resulting from the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. Those provisions, in addition, shall ensure that the defendant is entitled to access a lawyer in the context of the criminal proceedings and the procedure for the execution of the European Arrest Warrant, the right to be informed by a third party in the event of the deprivation of his freedom and the right to communicate with third persons and the consular authorities of his country while depriving him of his freedom. Furthermore, the confidentiality - and this is of great importance - of communication between defendants and lawyers, which is a key element in ensuring the effective exercise of rights of defence which is an essential part of the right of fair trial. On the issue of the rights of victims of crime, I will not mention time, just to point out that guarantees are guaranteed for the respect and dignity of the victim's personal integrity and privacy during the criminal proceedings. And add one last. I will not disagree with the view that the way in which amendments to legislate is not the best. But, ladies and gentlemen, do you think that matters, for example, concerning unemployment, to which the amendment on the long-term unemployed fifty-five to sixty-seven years, as well as the extension of forty-five days of the deadline for objecting to forest maps, are matters that can wait? I'd say no. That is why most opposition parties, in this regard at least, will vote in favour of these amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u61	Please hang up, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u62	I'm closing, Mr. President. Therefore, legislation by means of amendments - I repeat - is not the best way to legislate. Every day, however, we have to make arrangements for the solution to urgent problems that are constantly occurring and we should take this into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u63	Now listen to the procedure. There are four colleagues, Mrs Asimakopoulou, who will now take the floor, then Mr Karras, Mr Georgiadis, Mr Theocharis, after Mrs Asimakopoulou, asked me for the floor, Mr George Mavrotas, where I shall give him the floor. To conclude, the Minister will speak and immediately after the Minister, whoever parliamentarian wants or wants to speak before the Minister, that is to say, ending the speakers, I can give him the floor again. But I think it's best that you listen to the Minister. If we go to the minimum - all right, there will be a slight tolerance because the speakers are few - within three hours from now we will be closed. As long as we are consistent and calm and move on.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u64	Mr President, before you give the floor to Mrs Asmakopoulou, I would like to put forward the latest legislative improvements to prove that we are now also receiving comments in plenary and even suggestions from the Scientific Council of Parliament and we are trying to integrate them in the best possible way. I say this, Mr President, because it was previously heard by a special speaker that, from all this rich dialogue - which has indeed existed in an entirely civilized manner - the government has incorporated nothing, either after the parties' comments or after the operators' comments. A number of comments have been incorporated with four groups of legislative improvements that we have submitted.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u65	Mrs Asimakopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, as our rapporteur, Mr Nicos Panayotopoulos, has already announced, I will speak not about ratification, but about the amendment that the Minister, Mr Nicos Pappas, has chosen to bring today. The Minister, who, by bringing this amendment, proves to be still the head of the spearhead of the status quo that continues on the part of the Tsipras - Kambou government at all costs to gain complete control of the media. This effort continues today shamelessly and continues with a lack of hypocrisy and absolute care. I am referring to the amendment to both paragraphs. So I start with'relentlessly'. So Mr. Pappas came here and told us that we "with one paragraph we repeal Article 2A of Law No.4339/2015" - this is the well-known unconstitutional law of the failed canalarch, Mr. Papa - "we abolish it because it was, of course, considered unconstitutional by the Council of State". That's what the Minister says - it's self-evident. When did it become self-evident? Let's take a look at the background to get in touch with the obvious: This Article is hereby adopted on 11-2-2016. We said to him that it is self-evident that it is unconstitutional, that a minister cannot become a super-Canary and determine the number of channels. No, then it wasn't self-evident. Nor was it self-evident when later, since anti-constitutionalism was judged on 26-10-2015, a week later, on 3-11-2016, Mr. Pappas brings in and majority MPs vote to suspend Article 2A. It was not then obvious that it had to be abolished. The decision shall be published at the beginning of the year. In order to reach agreement, ladies and gentlemen, six months ago. Nor then did it be understood that it had to be abolished. Mr Pappas brings his own bill on 16-3, the cost redaction, where he also had the opportunity to bring the amendment. It wasn't that easy either. Now, then, it comes up all of a sudden and tells us that it goes without saying that it must be abolished. Why? That is the question: why is he doing it now? Okay, I guess that's because that's a political pain. It must be particularly difficult for Mr Pappas to admit publicly that he must abolish his anti-constitutional law. It's skeptical. He'd rather bring it overnight on the 15th. So why is he bringing it now? He is now bringing it up, because he is sloppy and hypocrisy to find a way to limit the number of channels he has said to be four on the basis of the well-known study of Florence, another way. So I come to the first paragraph that he defended. What does the first paragraph that he brings? He says that they should necessarily broadcast the channels - fortunately - national scope, he said. Because it's unbelievable that he didn't come to the committee either. Meanwhile, the regional channels have days now when they are wondering whether everything should be closed, because the Minister understands, before bringing the legislative improvement, that he had caused panic to regional channels, which, if they were obliged to broadcast on simulcast, i.e. HD also, would have to make investments that were absolutely forbidden and which would be closed. So the Minister corrects this with a legal improvement - I leave the sloppiness and go to hypocrisy - and he says that there must be this simulcast show in HD and standard version because it is cut for the weak! The government is aware that it is being cut off for the weak, which is why it has also reduced dutyfree, which is why the CSCE has cut down, which is why it has brought a fourth memorandum. For the weak, he's doing all this. So Mr. Pappas is also being cut for the weak and barbarics he also tweeted that he will not fall black on those who cannot. Let's sit down and look at this. First of all, when did the Minister get him pain for the weak who don't have the devices? Why in his own law, which was found unconstitutional and which abolished the provision with the next paragraph of this amendment, what did the Minister for the Canalarch say? Four channels only high definition. What happened? In a year and a half, did all the devices come back? I don't think so. Hypocrisy. So let's go see what the Minister actually does, because he doesn't care about it. What's he doing? Excludes DVB-T2 technology. Why is he doing this? It does it because the greatest advantage of this technology is that per multiplier this increases capacity. In particular, from 24,88 to 36,55 MPPS. In just Greek, more channels can be entered. As he talked about the old devices, I note that the percentage of devices that do not support high definition is estimated to be around 30% and DVB the two are around 35%. So what does the Minister do to the weak for whom he is being cut? He's making the transition into two stages. At the first stage, it should be reconstructed, updated, until simulcast is abolished, and then all of this should be done again, with a new network bottom-up parameter to eliminate simulcast and go to DVB-T2 technology. For which DVB - T2 technology I tell you a few elements: From the forty-eight European countries the twenty-two operate on DVB - T2 networks. Three have adopted it. Worldwide from the two hundred and thirty-two countries, the eighty-four operates. Just to say to you, it is clearly the future and also has legislative and legislative documentation for its use in national legislation, and I am referring to the imposition of the best use of the spectrum, Articles 23 and 75 of Law 4070, the unauthorised storage of spectrum, I am referring to Article 21 of Law 4070, I am also referring to the European Decision 2017/899 of 17 May, which specifically states in point 20 that these technologies of second generation digital terrestrial television, namely T2 and the frequency map, must be used. How hypocrisy now and how much more plan to control the information? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall close, Mr President, by saying this. This plan does not end with today's amendment, this plan is continuing. In the summer, the Minister has announced that he will bring in a multi-brand plan, which, in addition to the space service which we are going to discuss, has other restrictions of this type: a register of the distribution of advertising time with specific criteria, control of television measurements. All of this is part of a project in which opposition will be strong across and will also be strongly opposed to any attempt to circumvent the institutional role of independent and constitutionally guaranteed independent authorities. It will also take the initiatives needed for the institutional shield of their administrative and financial self-sufficiency, including the PSE, because pluralism and pluralism cannot be circumvented in informing a democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u67	Mr George Mavrotas, a Parliamentary representative from Potami, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u68	Thank you, Mr President. We are talking today about a verdict with four parties that are mostly involved in complying with European directives and conventions. First the ratification and adaptation of the Greek legislation of the Warsaw Convention of the Council of Europe on legalisation, detection, seizure of proceeds from criminal activities and terrorist financing, second conditions for the placement of minors in an institution or contracted family to and from Member States of the European Union, third incorporation of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 October 2013 on the right of access to a lawyer in criminal proceedings and the implementation of the European arrest warrant and fourthly incorporation of the Directive establishing minimum standards on rights, support and protection of victims of crime and replacing Council Framework Decision 2001/220/JHA. Our rapporteur has said so, too, that we are positive about this. However, we have nine amendments. That doesn't surprise us. The amendments to ratification treaties are something that, as a legislature, we are beginning to become dangerous with the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. There will be no ratification of a treaty in which there will be no amendments in it and there will be a withdrawal syndrome. Our rapporteur, Mr Dannelis, made his comments on the amendments. I, as a parliamentarian, will have a little more free matter and may I turn to three issues of topicality. I will begin with the question of the involvement of the Minister of Defence and Mr. Kammenos, in a case of conversation with a isobet on a drug matter. I don't know what they said. But is it normal for a Minister of National Defence to raise the phone and talk to a convicted life in a drug case? Do you think that this is what every citizen is doing or hearing that every citizen will start to lose his trust in the institutions? When they enter "mixer" Ministers with criminal isovites with drug cases in justice, then what taste do you think will the juice that comes out of? It'll taste like the rot. So, do you not think that this exposes the government? And it's not the only thing from Mr. Kammenos. We will then move on to an issue that has to do with the universities, and it has to do with Mr Gavroglou's interview yesterday on television. Yesterday, the Minister in his television appearance made some statements on the occasion of the letter of four hundred seventy-sevenths of a student of the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki who protested against lawlessness and infraction at the university's premises. Here, I want to praise these students, because you know that in universities it is very difficult to open their mouths and it is not easy to sign with your name such texts that may target you. We have lived through this as a teacher. Yesterday, the Minister, on the occasion of this letter to the universities, made the following statement: "These subjects are solved from within, if there is a perverse student movement and a faculty association. If some well-meaners want to present it as a rule, what am I supposed to say? There has never been a solution to dealing with police ways." Those were the Minister's words. I do not present them, of course, as a rule, but if we do not do something now, they will soon become the rule. And I don't understand what the Minister is urging. Is it possible for students with drug gangs? No matter how tricky the student movement is. And he also said that they're not solved in police ways, because some people have obsessed and repulsive since the 1970s and 1980s, won't the police get into universities like this? Don't go crazy. Is there police in the House, there's police in the courts, and there won't be any in the universities because some people have irrational concerns? At the Aristotle, at the Polytechnics, at the University of Economics, we have had a lot of cases where some are taking advantage of university asylum and the absence of the police to do business, illegal business and easy bazaars. And I mean a number of thefts that we asked last week about thefts in workshops and university offices, an epidemic which, apart from other things, also burdens the Greek taxpayer. The Ministry of Education cannot be viewed in these events, Pontius Pilate, throwing the ball elsewhere. If there is no coordinated action by state, Ministry of Education, Justice, Civil Protection and University Authorities, these phenomena will continue and increase. A plan for freeing universities from these outbreaks of infraction and lawlessness on a permanent basis is necessary. To be fair, this bill, as it was presented in the consultation on universities, heard a lot about asylum, but it was not heard that the police could intervene automatically without the consent of a Rector Council, apart from the felonies, as was in their original version and the defects. That's almost always. So the point is to have some understanding and will on how to do this. So, in closing this particular issue, it is not a matter that will solve the Roman student movement, as the Minister believes, but the appointed state bodies, in order to get insecurity from students and workers at universities. In conclusion, it is not possible to talk about the meaning of the white one yet. From full immunity, that is, some should go hand in hand with the police rule. Finally, I'm going to close up with the economy. The second assessment has been closed with a delay, because we have raised more for communication reasons, the issue of debt as the major one we should have taken in the wrong Timing time, i.e. before the German elections, by putting the International Monetary Fund and the European Union in a fortnight and we should be in the middle. In this process, we have won some formalities and recasts in relation to what had previously been agreed, but we have lost a half and a half a unit of GDP growth. In November, we had voted for 2.7% growth for the budget, provided that we also entered quantitative relaxation in March, etc. 2.7% now, with the latest OECD forecasts, has become 1.1%, i.e. about one and a half points of GDP, i.e. three billion national wealth. That's how much this delay cost us. But wealth development and production must be our primary concern and not debt. Because the debt must not be seen as an absolute size, but in terms of GDP. In GDP, then, we must aim to ensure that the debt is sustainable. And the recent sustainability studies that they have seen yesterday - the light of publicity from the European Union, the bell that they are actually beating is'see the debt in relation to GDP'. In the adverse GDP scenarios, debt will become unsustainable. But development, which we are talking about, needs changes, needs transformations, needs reforms. And the most fundamental reform is the change of government culture, to reconcile with the idea that jobs and wealth will be created mainly through private initiative. Not with a state-owned development, but with a growth that will step on and rely on an effective state, a state that will provide basic services and is responsible for playing its final and control role and not on party credentials. Certainly, the exit from the crisis cannot pass through the booming of the middle class, which is the engine of each economy. SYRIZA has so far, even in the last two and a half years, which is in the government, made politics through the reaction. But now it is time to act. It is no longer enough to say how bad and incompetent the former were, but to show whether and how good and capable he is. It must not, in other words, put the bar in the past, but in the future. It must move on to the necessary transformation of the Greek economy through the necessary reforms. Because in the last two years we have been pretending to be reforming and our partners are pretending to believe us. To produce, produce new wealth, we need thousands of reforms: deprivation, climate for attracting investment, reconstruction and retraining of the public sector, speed up the administration of justice, see again the tax and insurance, which is completely undevelopment - the insurance has become almost tax, in fact - digitisation of procedures, reduction of bureaucracy, opening up of markets and professions, things that have been kilted down. The most important thing, however, is that the government cannot continue with the sufferings that have brought us here, the insurmountable state of government and the customer practices. Until the closure of the programme in August 2018, the government has a few short turns ahead, such as the third assessment with work. Then the closure of the second assessment must run to cover the lost ground, 1.5% of GDP that we have lost over the delay. It must put the ideas and obsessions in the drawer and get out of the drawer design and program adapted to the demands of times, if, of course, there is something like that in its drawer. The country has one last chance to catch up, provided it looks forward and not backwards. Other countries, such as Ireland, Portugal, Cyprus, have done so. Other countries do, like France. Why not us? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, too. Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, Mr President. A bill on criminal provisions on the protection of minors, on the fight against terrorism, on money laundering, has again come with the amendments to change to a bill, which mainly concerns issues of economy, issues relating to the crisis, because they are privatisation instruments, and ultimately the well-known memorandum. I am therefore not going to refer to the trunk of the provisions of the bill, Mr President, because all the opinions have been heard exhaustively. I shall try, in the brief time available, to refer to two, three points. The first point I wish to raise - regardless of the fact that these issues come as amendments, and there are no ministers in charge when Members are invited to develop their positions in Ethiopia, so that we have no more political dialogue and have to pass it out of Ethiopia either on radios or on televisions - on forest maps. However, this problem remains, which I had started in the debate in the Chamber, the lack of a constitutional basis for this legislation. And I mentioned this. Since the Constitution prohibits the change in the use of forests and in particular of public forests, it would have to find a way of legalising those who have extended their activities, even if necessary, the so-called'market' of the before 1975 and the 'exchange of use' after 1975. It's funny and forgive me for the expression. What should the government have done that didn't? It should, by bringing this bill, be accompanied by a complete economic study justifying the need for the public interest. Because we all know that the public interest does not depend solely on economic sizes. He didn't do that. It extends the deadline, appeals shall begin in the Council of State. You'll have a problem over there, because case law is stable. In fact, I want to remind you of something else. I am presenting for the Minutes the decision number 805/2016 of the Council of State, which is placed on the matter of forest maps in relation to the register. It is essential - we all know this - that the forest maps should be recorded beforehand so that the Greek register can be completed. [[At this point Mr Georgios Dimitrios Karras presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Not to mention the billions lost, not to mention the imperfections it has. Let's just say that. This story must be finished once, but not fragmented, as it is. In this decision, the Council of State puts another parameter. It puts the parameter of protecting the state's property regime on it. We overlooked that. Since there are farms, therefore, if there are economic activities on a presumption of public forest land, do so with Article 24 of the Constitution. I told the Deputy Minister, too. It's been months and I didn't hear anything. I'm filling in and closing this piece, saying something else. I have been asking for six months to resolve the issue of land use. By Law 4474, if I am not mistaken, the question was that, within one month, the famous presidential decree would come - passed by the Council of State - to determine the uses of land. SYRIZA - ANEL Government abolished its uses of land 2013-2014, restored an anachronistic regime in 1987, does not walk anything. The decree does not yet come to see where they are allowed and where industries are not allowed, where are the purely residential areas. And we're talking about economic growth. I am, of course, given the opportunity, Mr President, at this point, to speak about something which has annoyed me. I am not against the privatizations or privatizations - whatever term you want to use - but I am against the insult of the public interest, I am against the blocking of the protection of the interests of the Greeks, as was done with the 'FRAPORT'. They all say, and the Qualified Opposition and the Government, that the 'FRAPORT' convention will be a development contract, and today they bring us to Parliament to ratify with amendment an amendment to the original convention. Do you understand, gentlemen, what this contract does? I'm not talking about airports, that's all. I say that we will soon be dealing with this again in a subsequent privatisation. In fact, I read this morning that a preferred investor was found for the port of Thessaloniki, again a German company, as the ‘LEADER’ of the consortium. So here's what the reality is. This 'FRAPORT' convention has a clause which says it has the constitutional protection of foreign investment. This means that by 1953 the funds may be raised, they may ask for compensation, the company's property may be inexorable. But why? I'll remind you of something. In 1950 Greece came out of World War II and a civil war and needed American dollars. And the dollars came with the Marshall Plan, the investment abroad was protected, and that is why in the 1952 Constitution this legislation became a constitutional guarantee. In 2017, however, there are no US dollars for investment. There is borrowing Greek money used by foreign companies instead of financing it by German - European central banks. I am tabling the list of contracts ratified by the Minister of Finance, to see how the advance payment for the acquisition of airports has been paid. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras, presents for the minutes the abovementioned list, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So I read what the LEADER bank is for bonds. It's ALPHA BANK. However, it is known that ALPHA BANK is based on a recapitalisation by the Greek State, i.e. in money charged by Greek taxpayers' credit agreements. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would very much like your tolerance, Mr President. I'm going to second. The amount provided by ALPHA BANK is around 350 million, to pay the advance to the Greek State for the acquisition of the fourteen airports. This money, however, was not intended for the Germans. Let DEUTSCHE BANK give it, let's give it to COMMERCE BANK, but not give Greek taxpayers' money. Do you realize that they buy Greek companies, Greek infrastructure with Greek money, and we provide them with constitutional coverage? Do we understand that? Of course, the Chamber does not have the audience I expected on the criticality of such provisions. But at least let's talk about it, so they can hear it out. I then read about another 300 million for the advance from EUROPEAN INVESTMENT BANK. This bank, that is, which is intended for growth and Greece, has given European money. And we also accepted and accepted the Ministry of Finance, this money, instead of being directed to the real economy, to come accountable to pay debts. Because it's a match that every payment for the acquisition of infrastructure goes to a loan service. Wait, gentlemen, development? I am very sorry - I will say it - but the mistakes are huge. The economy can no longer move with these actions, which we see and which, unfortunately, are revealed after the adoption of the conventions, are revealed after the commitment of the country. Why? Did anyone tell us before we ratified the FRAPORT Convention that the money would be from the Greek banks and from the European Investment Bank, instead of taking this money to the real economy? There is no liquidity in the economy of Greece. It is now stirring up trade. There is no construction activity. Is there nothing and we're going to fund takeovers from foreign companies to come here and give them constitutional coverage? I now think that we need to start serious about what we want to do in this country and not stay in wards about whether we have a development clause. This is another issue and I do not want to develop it. Because, if we have a development clause, we will have a well-being for all the more growth rates for the payment of contracts and go by saying. Mr President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u71	Mr. Theocharis has the floor, because his child has a minor health problem. We hope to be passive.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u72	I shall speak in my turn, Mr President. I'm last.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u73	It's your turn. Mr. Georgiadis has informed us he'll be late and the Minister doesn't want to intervene now. He will speak immediately after the end of the speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u74	I don't have my papers with me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u75	You don't need to have papers, Mr. Theochre. I've got a picture from here. If it's for a number, okay, otherwise you don't need them. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Mr President. I think that, beyond this bill, it is more important to talk about various amendments, which have come to cover problems, mistakes, in the previous procedures of the government. I think my previous Independent MEP and colleague, Mr Karas, has developed very well that we are coming with amendments to correct contracts which have come and have been ratified by Parliament. This shows the problems, mistakes and sloppyness that, anyway, are clearly characterising this government and it is its daily practice. However, what matters to say a little bit more generally is why we are in this situation and the latest developments, particularly after the end of the second Eurogroup assessment agreement. There will be an opportunity to discuss these, of course, in the previous agenda for debate next week, but this is at the level of Heads of State and so we, as parliamentarians, have very few opportunities to talk about these kinds of issues. I think it is worth the effort to say some things about these issues too. The government has made an effort and is substantially changing the whole story and its entire narrative. It was a 4% opposition party and basically supported all its rise to a single point: the fact that no growth can come unless the debt is settled. That was the whole story of SYRIZA's differentiation, in relation to the previous picture or if you want the narrative, which the previous government has been saying so far. What's he been doing for a week? Just before the Eurogroup, but also as soon as the Eurogroup agreement came, it tells us that there is the possibility of developing, moving forward. This possibility can be exploited now, we can do what is needed to get growth and debt to come and we have time and it can be settled. In other words, all rhetoric and all the logic behind the previous period of time is completely overthrowing it. We had to see this from the terrible overthrow of SYRIZA - ANEL. SYRIZA - ANEL is a party, which was created, so that there are no memos and now vote for them, and as if they were candy, it swallows them one after the other. The overthrow of the government is equivalent to the rhetoric of SYRIZA - ANEL. It is not possible, abundantly, to change the positions and try to convince and make fun of the Greek people that growth can come without debt settlement. Let's think about it logically: Where can the money come from, so that we can get out of this debt elbow, which every Greek citizen bears, every Greek family? And that may be worth it to explain it to the Greek people, because the economics and the figures are confusing more and confusing than they are helping. It can come from three points: the first point is from the blood of the Greek people, from the primary surpluses, from the fiscal adjustments, from the tax increases and from the reductions in the government's costs. That is why Mr Symble managed to convince you in the game by holding the International Monetary Fund - without actually keeping it in place, because he only kept it on the side of the Greek people's bloody cuts - and before the Eurogroup's agreement you voted for the measures and additional measures. And then, perhaps the only one in the three hundred was, I did, and the criticism, saying that I am not voting for this multi-brand plan for countermeasures, because countermeasures are wasting the blood of the Greek people, these 5 billion. So since it is now over and out of the Greek people as much as it can, you have accepted it, and it ties you with primary surpluses of over 2% by 2060 and 3.5% of GDP by 2022, it now comes the second point, which can give you money to be repaid. The second point is growth. To really come a growth that will rise the Greek economy, create wealth, create incomes and thus create the money that can be repaid. That's, if you want, the healthy part. Takes you there and will now begin to convince and says, "Oh, do you want growth to come?" Of course, the OECD Turks, labour legislation, freedom of services, professions, etc. That's the only way to get growth. And now you're on this path, which we'll see to unfold the next time. And no matter how long you want and delay and do not vote, we will discuss all these issues in the public debate. And only when we bring this and go through the painful changes for the Greek people, then what goes on, as far as possible, will give it with the so-called escalations and all the next. Anyway, where's the QE you promised? Where is the Prime Minister's tie, which could vote and deceive you to vote out to the authors and said "Would we wear a tie"? Ladies and gentlemen of the conflict, growth will come only if we change logically, only if we change attitudes, only if we have Greece to work. This is the only way to develop, not with the complexity, not with corruption, not with Florence and the four licenses, which you are now in hiding, in an irrelevant bill, to pass an amendment to disappear, not with anti-constitutional laws, not with the isovitas, which the government has not given convincing answers why it speaks of its Minister and so important, the Minister of National Defence, with isovites and discusss the issues of Marinaki. When? When I remind you - there is an open doll procedure and the business battle between Mr Marinakis and Mr Savvidis, the chosen one, is open.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u77	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u78	Of course! Let's see it, because the Greek people make these connections to them, they're not things that I call them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u79	You say it and tell it to your knowledge that it is not true.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u80	To explain why and what the Minister of Justice does for these actions!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u81	"Grown up in the gala of chopagne" now and you'll hear it!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u82	'Saint sky lightnings are not afraid'.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u83	Don't hold a dialogue! Minister, I remind you that I am present, and I can remove it to anyone. Continue and close, Mr. Theocharis, because you have already spent the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u84	I'm closing, Mr. President. This is the only way, only with a break with the past, if we say no to the mistakes of the past, which have brought us into bankruptcy - that has brought prosperity, but it has also brought bankruptcy - we will only be able to escape. Have we understood that for seven and eight years we have been surfing in the same crisis, which has the same causes and the same pathogens? Where is everything you promised the Greek people? And I'm not only talking about superficial, increases, one and the other, but where is the real rupture with corruption, about strife, about real page change, about real caring for people who are in degraded areas, or who can't make it out of their lives because they're either unemployed, they're paid black or they're either substituted and they're not sure if they're paid next month. This is what the Greek people are asking for and, above all, demanding jobs, demanding incomes and not benefits. You're the government of benefits and finally change course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u85	As Mr Famelos has asked for the floor this morning, in order to make a small contribution to an amendment from his Ministry, which has already been incorporated into the bill, and I think Mr Stathakis has defended it, but he has the right to speak for five minutes, because I think he has left the Ministerial Council for that too. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u86	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would really like to put myself on the record by informing the National Representation, but also the citizens, of the issue of the amendment. However, Mr Theocharis, we have a quite solid and great scenario for how we get out of the crisis. Including debt, included the QE, but you know, what is included above all is to stop the old policies, which satisfied the few and not the many, policies that you participated in. We are therefore happy with the many positive factors, both in budgetary policy and in the production of our country. As much as you are destroyed, the Greeks have more work, more than two hundred and fifty thousand jobs have been created by this government and work is indeed a solution, which you have not served in the past and we invite you to serve in the future. But why are we tabling this amendment, which gives citizens until 27 July to use the tools of objections or applications for manifest error? We give it because we really need to exhaust all the margins we have in 2017, and because by this process we have succeeded and launched a very important part of society and public administration, but above all, because a part of the administration, the administration, has not implemented what has to be done, to protect the citizens' property, and we have to be clear to the citizens, even though some are not. So with this amendment...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u87	Mr. Famele, for practical reasons, he's already got a number 78 as an article in the bill and that's not an amendment. So we're talking about Article 78.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u88	Yes, Mr. President. Article 78 therefore allows objections and a request for manifest error, a request for redemption or an authorisation for intervention for areas which were of a forestry or grassland character and are currently in another form and are in the IACC. So, of course, the possibility of better service and information for the citizens is being provided, because we will have time to send the limits of settlements and settlements from the OTAs. At the same time, we inform you that in the last few days an electronic tool has been created for applying for manifest error from the Greek Stock Exchange. And so, with these easy tools, it makes it easier for the citizen, without paying studies, lawyers and paying costs. And what with the extension we have the possibility of using it. I also inform you that once the crop declarations have been completed we will have the opportunity in this month to inform all farmers, whose areas interact with forest maps, so that they can proceed with the use of the tools we have done or Article 67 for forested fields, so that they do not have any problem with subsidies personally and effectively. This information, which we will be implementing together with the Ministry of Rural Development, will enable there to be no problem in the countryside and no more regularity, which has not been in all the previous years. However, I would like to inform you that this final date is binding, that is to say, no further extension will be granted, since in September we must have proceeded with the partial ratification of the Charter. And it's a final date for foreigners too. We have had the opportunity, through continuous dialogue with society, to create too many new tools, to give a clear time margin, but you must be aware that for the next posters the time margin will remain in a hundred days, i.e. over three and a half months. So, with the greatest suspension so far, which ensures the forest area and legal certainty, which enables the register to be dismantled - something that had not yet been guaranteed by the previous two-party regime - the Forest Service and the citizen are released and we have a well-established forestry relationship - agricultural farms. We have reduced by up to 80% the amount of the objections, and we have anticipated many cases of imperfection either for the municipalities or for the town plans, for the settlements, reafforestation areas, for the outstanding or final characterisations. I must inform you that thirty thousand and eighty-seven objections have so far been tabled, seven thousand seven hundred of them being imperfect. Of course, this post revealed many things that were known so far, but outside the institutions, namely that there were lands that had been declared resurrected, forest or agricultural land which had changed use and many crop and subsidies issues. We, therefore, with a very important working group, which we have in the Ministry, with fifteen legislative tools, two laws, four civil servants, four ministerial decisions and five circulars, have given extensions, reduced costs and created tools for both the farming area and the area of manifest errors and for where the administration had not passed legal acts. Thus, we have given the possibility, at very little cost and at many doses, for the farmer to continue farming. Let us make it clear: the citizen's right to apply for a change of use, such as some badly-faithed publications, is not undone yesterday, because on 27 July he ends the OSCE-related tool, but the law on land-use change remains open for the before 1975 modified areas until 2018, while it is constantly open for all other farmers who modified the use from 1975 to 2007. [[At this point, the end of the time bell of the Deputy Minister is ringing.]] In conclusion, Mr President - and I would like to say that the main issue is with regard to settlements, until 9 June 2017 only in 42.5% of the municipalities had not sent these areas and we had to tell society which municipalities had not so far sent limits of settlements and settlements. The result - and I say this, Mr President, because I also know your own self-government origin - is that although only three out of ten municipalities had sent the data in 2016, today we have additional new municipalities, which have sent the data and reached a rate of 67%. The extension is due to 100%. In the last ten days, only eleven OTAs have been complied with, which is why we need to communicate directly or mediate with society and inform. The municipalities that have not sent data so far are the municipalities of Alexandroupolis, Eastern Mani, Andravida, Cyclones, Ancient Olympia, Voiro, North Kynuria, Gortini, Delta, Doxato, Western Mani, Dodeas, Edessa, Elafonisos, Homelandos, Zagoras - Moresi, Zacharos, Kavala, Kassandra, Corfu, Kimolos, Konotios, Konitsas, Messeni, Metsovou, Milos, Mykonos, Nafplio, Nea Propodida, South Kinouri, South Pelion, Peristeri, Pylos - Nestoria, Siphnos, Skopelos, Sparta, Spetsos, Chios and Oraios. I am presenting these forty municipalities, Mr President, and in the Minutes for society to be informed, but also for people to be assured. [[At this point the Deputy Minister, Mr Socrates Famelos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] I would like to inform you that the draft law on construction, which will be discussed at the beginning of July with the planning, which we now have, will also resolve the issue of temporary concessions - I think it is also yours, Mr Javarra - and we will extend for what has not been implemented in previous years so that the citizen does not have to raise objections to what the state and municipalities in the region have not done so far. We will also be able to use the information contained in the map on building permits, so that we do not have any problems with the suspension. Therefore, as of 27 July, all operations in agricultural and other uses are being dismantled, so that there is no problem of use, and we will also enable the forests to issue certificates for the transfer of forest land, so that they are not just the livestock offices with this load, and that the whole operation is being liberated into the countryside. There will also be some arrangements - and I am announcing them now - for forest plantations, as well as for areas which have been evacuated in Attica. We will conclude this until 5 July so that by 27 July this whole process is over. Finally, Mr President, I inform the National Representation that in 2017 the remaining 48% of the forest maps will be posted in our country, and in particular Regional Units Pella, Kilkis, Imathia, Serres and rather East Attica, and the remaining 48% of the forest maps will be declared in 2017, so that we can be absolutely consistent, which our country at last claims on forest maps, which could not succeed on forest maps either. Thank you, Mr President. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u89	It closes the list of fellow speakers with Mr Georgiadis and then the Minister will take the floor and the circle of parliamentary representatives will follow, so that we can reach the conclusion of the debate. Here, Mr. Georgiadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u90	Thank you very much, Mr President. It is clear that this draft law, with all due care we can judge how we legislate about the present Government, is an act which we support. Because, Minister, it is obvious that we all want the state to be able to collect more money from this whole crime process and punish any guilty and therefore the instruments must also be used to do so. But you will allow me, because I have seen you before you disappear in Mr Theocharis' speech, to say why I have mainly come here when I saw that you are present in today's debate. Mr. Kontonis, you have so far had a very good person in Greek society. We may be political opponents, but I have recognised that many times and publicly that your presence so far in our political system has been a positive presence of a man with principles. It makes me stunning impression and I very much wanted to ask you in person why you decided to play Mr. Panagiotis Kammenos's attorney and take all the responsibility for whatever has happened. And I would ask you, Minister, not to play with our intelligence once again, by mentioning the war against drugs and all the rest, which relates to the substance of any case decided by Greek justice and which is to be judged by independent Greek justice and certainly not by you and certainly not by me. What we are discussing if it has happened - I beg you, Mr Kontonis, to listen to me because I want you to respond to the Greek people now, and I repeat, not with the hypotheses of the previous day or today - is, if the Minister of National Defence had direct contact with the isovite in prison and if the Minister of National Defence had direct contact with the prosecutor and the inquisitionist of the Port Authority, to guide any statement. To tell me that, given the knowledge of a case, a citizen has informed the authorities that, in order for the authorities to move forward, we all understand that it is something that can be done and is in the context of legality. I imagine, however, that you understand the difference between an active Minister, not informing the authorities, but taking the lead in judicial and investigation proceedings.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u91	Why did he play first?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u92	Because he called the isovite in jail.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u93	And that's "priority"?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u94	Mr. Contonis, don't laugh at all. I hope you don't try to convince us that it's normal for the Minister of National Defence to speak with the isovite and the prosecutor. I hope you don't do that. Because if you're doing this, I'm gonna have lost any idea about what I thought about Stavros Kontonis. I'm resuming the case. A minister, a member of the executive, calls a prosecutor, a member of the judiciary, guides her what time to go, where and in what prison.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u95	You're wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u96	I'm not wrong at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u97	You're making a big mistake.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u98	How do you know? Did you look for it?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u99	Mr. Georgiadis...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u100	Did you order an inquiry, Minister? How do you know if it's wrong?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u101	Submit your questions and the Minister will answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u102	I'll answer you later.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u103	You'll tell me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u104	Minister, your answer is not recorded, we too want to hear it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u105	And to understand it, does Stavros Kontonis, as Minister of Justice, consider it reasonable and normal, the Minister of National Defence to call the isovite in prison and the isovite to call the Minister, so that they can find out what his statement will be? Do you have any such case in the past, Minister of Justice? Or, Mr. Condonne - and I see Mr. Famelos next door, who was once the transparent preacher of the cleansing - does love for the chair make you overlook everything, even of this type of behavior? So tell us, Minister of Justice, how exactly is the division of powers to be substantiated when the Minister intervenes in the ongoing judicial procedure? And how is it protected when the Minister of Justice, that is, you, are praying to give him protection? I would like to know, Mr President, particularly the different behaviour of Mr Panagiotis Kurublis. Mr Panagiotis Kouroublis, much more careful than you, has speeded up taking a long distance from this story and I hope he will proceed with the investigation he needs for the port employee, for whom he said he was there "not on duty but on his own". To understand, at last, Mr Stavros Kontonis, you are at all interested in what is going on in justice? I asked you in writing and you have not answered them. Mr. Paulakis has written on facebook seven times that there is an offense circuit and even mentions a prosecutor, a bald name. You, as Minister of Justice, have investigated Mr. Polakis' complaints about the existence of such an indictmental circuit? If there is, what has Stavros Kontonis done? If there is no, what has Stavros Kontonis done against the Minister's colleague, who insults Greek justice? If you haven't done any of this, what kind of Minister are you, Mr. Contony? You are only a minister to put the tie on the nice - good - and bye! - or are you a minister to carry out your duties under the Constitution? Just one question, and I'm recapping and closing. First, is it normal, has it ever been done, in action, to speak on the phone with a isobite in prison, to guide him in his statement? Secondly, have you checked whether the prosecutor was in contact with Mr. Kammenos? And if it were the prosecutor in contact with Mr. Kammenos, how would her act be disciplinaryly controlled, if it is clearly illegal? Thirdly, have you, as Minister of Justice, investigated what role the port official, who sounds to say 'I don't care about the substance, I care not to become Prime Minister Mitsotakis'? Fourthly, have you checked Mr. Polakis' complaints about the existence of a violating circuit or have you renounced Mr. Polakis? So let's see now who Stavros Contonis really is. Or the chair above everything, Mr. Contony? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u106	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u107	You don't have the floor. The Minister responsible is present, in which, beyond eighteen minutes of speaking, I will give him five more minutes to answer the questions raised by Mr Georgiadis, if he wishes. Then he will have eighteen more minutes to talk about the bill, although it would be better if, although the Minister is here, Mr. Kammenos came to answer these questions in this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u108	Mr. Kammenos will be here Monday.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u109	Mr. Contonis, you have the floor. I'm putting you twenty-three minutes and sharing the time as you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u110	Since yesterday's file that came to Parliament...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u111	Talk to the microphone so we can answer it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u112	I'll say it, Mr. Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u113	Leave Mr. Famello, Mr. Georgiadis. The Minister, Mr. Kontonis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u114	Will he talk about the bill at the same time?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u115	Yes, at the same time and when your turn comes, you will have a tolerance for all the Members of Parliament, if you wish to refer to this particular subject. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u116	Mr President, while I intended to speak on the bill, the last position obliges me to give answers to this inappropriate attack, which I have received with characterizations and insulting and questioning my position and the actions that have been taken so far. So, first of all, I would like to say to everyone - why did Mr Theocharis mention it at the right end, but also to Mr Mavrotas - the Minister of National Defence worked in this particular case - and we will see how it worked - to cover something up or to reveal the truth? The first question is that. He spoke to anyone - in this particular case with an isovite, who has been convicted of drug trafficking, and we will talk about it later, and we will not escape what you have urged me today not to mention, will we say it all - and he said: 'Don't talk'? He said, "Don't reveal any of the things you know?" Or did he say to him: 'Speak' as criminal law stipulates - the narcotics law - according to which, even after the adoption of an irreversible decision, someone who will speak and provide information on the further disclosure of criminal offences and persons involved has benefited from the law? Therefore, the first thing we need to define here is that the Minister of National Defence has not urged anyone, anyone who, carefully, publicly states that he is familiar with and involved with a specific businessman in what he claims to remain silent. So, the Minister of Defense, if you blame him for something, is that he has shown exaggerated zeal, that he has urged a defendant, a prisoner, a isovite, or anything to speak and the truth to be revealed? Is that his sin? If that's his sin, tell us you're interested in covering.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u117	You've got the wrong idea.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u118	Mr. President, I...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u119	Mr. Georgiadis, don't interrupt. The procedure is specific.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u120	I believe that no one cares about the cover-up, but the way you take against the Minister of Defence leads to other thoughts. I, Mr Georgiadis, have heard you in a way - I would say - obsessed even with talking about the Minister of Defence. You will have your reasons. Political disagreements may have, but why do you thus speak of an action which, in the final analysis, - anything you can say - is directed towards revealing the truth and possibly other entities? That's not bad.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u121	Is that an interrogational employee?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u122	But, Mr. Georgiadis, you are now saying something else. You say: 'It is an official'. But no, did he go to testify to him? You know very well, Mr Georgiadis, but bypass it and bypass it deliberately, that this is the isobite he had given an interview - do you know that? - to a well-known journalist, Mr Triantafyllos, who even interviews his consent to make what he says to him public. So there, it involves people, business people, etc. What did the government do and what did justice do? Immediately, a prosecutor was sent to investigate whether these things are true. The isovite did not agree to give a statement, because a statement would otherwise be taken by the competent prosecutor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u123	The Attorney General.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u124	Like this. Mr. Javaras knows about it. However, it delivered a list of bank accounts to the competent prosecutor, who is head of the Prosecutor's Prosecutor's Prosecutor. And from that point, without any leakage, the process of judicial investigation has begun. What's the problem? We are not building the guilty, nor are we talking about the guilty, nor is anything announced by us, Mr Georgiadis. And the Minister of National Defence, whom you repeatedly invoke negatively, after that contact, apparently crucified after he found that he had to cross-check what was reported to him by the journalist, who took the interview, had no other contact with this...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u125	If he had another one, what are you gonna do?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u126	Mr. Georgiadis, we'll see about this. What are you talking about? If he had another, if he didn't have another. Is that how we're gonna talk? Well, I'm telling you about...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u127	I would remind you that this is a House, not a TV panel, to have a dialogue between you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u128	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u129	For the last time I remind you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u130	If possible, do not interrupt, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u131	All right, I'm telling Mr. Georgiadis, please don't interrupt. In the end it will take the floor for two minutes to say what it is to say. Don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u132	I would therefore like to tell you that at this point in time an investigation is being carried out into what has been denounced by this isovite. The legal assistance procedure to a foreign state has also been requested and activated to cross-check whether the information it has provided is true. So what's the problem? Did anyone from the government mention anything that is prejudicial to anyone, when justice has not come to an end, Mr Georgiadis? We have protected every person in every way and have not dealt with any references to this isobite for a large economic operator in the country, when this interview was given, several months ago. I imagine then there was his conversation with the Minister of Defence. No reference was made and the investigation was ordered at all levels. Entities no one builds. But here, I am surprised that at the present time there is a newspaper publisher who allegedly belongs to the shipowner and businessman and who make all these matters public. Of course, these newspapers did not make public any element of the interview given by the isovite and where he called not only faces but also identified paths to the whole situation, which we now know and there have also been the first convictions for more than two tons of heroin in Greece. Are we interested in revealing the truth? Are we interested to see who the organizer of all this traffic was, to see if all that is said by this isubite is based on the path of this death merchandise? We are interested in seeing the transactions that have taken place, who are involved in them, and how did we get to nothing but five to channel 2,1 tons of pure heroin into our country, which you can see if the death, pain and despair were distorted to Greek families, to young children, girls and boys? I would therefore say to you, Mr Georgiadis, that if there are responsibilities for the involvement of the port, the pre-reasonant official, who performed pre-reasonant duties at another stage of the procedure, they are already being investigated. And the Piraeus Prosecutor's office, from what we know, has been activated in that direction. Where's the meltdown beyond that? If there were, again, minor violations of the prison rules that are my responsibility, I will inform you that I have already ordered these issues to be investigated and we will see where the investigation will end up and who is responsible. But if the Minister of National Defence is accused of urgeting a prisoner of such a case to tell the truth, that leaves me incompetent. You, Mr. Georgiadis, if you had that possibility, what would you have told him? Would you say, "I'm not talking to you?" Would you say to him: 'I don't care about the matter'? What would you tell him? As you would say, "Speak and say what you know." And you know, I imagine, because I see you with a deep knowledge of the case, that this individual, in addition to interviews with the journalist, has also given an interview with interrogative officials, and he says, as far as possible, in a sworn statement of what he said to Mr Triantafylopoulos. I would ask why this unilateral interest in whether Kammenos spoke or did not speak without considering what he said to him? And why hasn't he been interested so many months in seven dead witnesses in this case? Why has no interest in what this person has swornly submitted? Why hasn't there been any interest in what he said in the public interview with a journalist? I say let justice do what he needs and what he knows to do well. I told you that the investigation is already under way, and it has already been requested by a foreign state to provide us with information to cross-check - see - what the isobite gives as evidence, because if they are not cross-checked, no one can say anything and not blame anyone. So where is the problem, Mr Georgiadis, ladies and gentlemen, in this process? I would therefore like to tell you that the excessive - because that is where I find it - opposition zeal or obsession with Mr Kammens, the Minister of Defence, lead parties to give the impression that they find footprints where business interests feel they are being put. Should the honourable businessmen or shipowners be in the absence of the law? Should complaints that are made public and filed before the competent authorities should not be investigated? I would also like to say something that amazed me: it is sad in relation to reports that are unfounded, which may prove true, but which, in the first phase, we do not know if they are related to the truth, parties running behind these announcements and these reports that no one gives a reason for. Because it can be shown that the report was wrong in alpha or beta. There is the impression - and this is the problem with the political system - that economic interests dictate the political speech of parties and the political parties are involved, unfortunately, once again in these issues of businessmen and the war between businessmen. However, I am telling you again, ladies and gentlemen: if it were just this - and I say that, aware of the catastrophe of drugs for a man and his family - if it were just business interests and war, which is relentless, we would be dealing with it in a different way. You can say anything. But when we have a load in front of us on a ship of two tonnes of pure heroin, do you realize, ladies and gentlemen, what are we talking about? Do you realize what we're talking about? And you come here and say that the maximum is not what would happen to Greek society, but if Mr. Kammenos called and urged one, who has proved himself involved in this case, to tell the truth and to say what he knows. Is that why you're reluctant? Tell me, ladies and gentlemen, is this the major issue at the moment? Even paradoxically, encouraging us to learn the truth from a government minister to a isobite who has been sentenced for life for this act, is something you cannot call a Priori negative. It's something that works towards revealing the truth. What concerns the Greek society, ladies and gentlemen, is to reveal which dark circuits and which persons are involved in this case. Because you know very well that the decision made by the first court has left a gap at this point. So I think we all need to work to find out the truth and not to cover up this great crime, because it is a crime against the Greek society, the young children, which would fall into the trap of drugs and their extinction.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u133	Minister, I would remind you that you used 60% of your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u134	I know, but it's a big deal.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u135	I mean the extra time I've taken. So let's get into the bill now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u136	Mr Georgiadis, I address myself directly to you and to the perceptiveness of me. I do not know whether your presence today has anything to do with what Mr Martinis has testified before the Committee on the Rules of Procedure and what is being committed to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u137	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u138	Mr. Georgiades, don't raise your hand. If the Minister doesn't finish, whether you pick it up or not, it's the same.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u139	I have said that I always wish anyone to prove their innocence. But prove it!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u140	It's not like that. Everyone's innocent until it turns out otherwise! This is for you!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u141	Innocence is given.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u142	I wish you, Mr Georgiadis, and you know that I sincerely wish that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u143	Only totalitarian regimes do that!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u144	For the first time I saw such love and such words have been heard. Imagine if you didn't love each other.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u145	I would ask you very much, of this type of issue, which is being investigated by justice and which the investigation of justice is in full progress, to leave it at that level. Another type of interference and another type of argument and accusations why a Minister encouraged a isobite to reveal the truth, that is unheard of! Accuse him of anything else you want, but that's why you can't blame him!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u146	Why are you applauding now?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u147	Look, I don't want to go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u148	I would remind you that I will not let you continue forever in my time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u149	All right, Mr President, but these issues cannot come here and remain unanswered.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u150	That's why I put in extra time. I understood that, but we have been talking for twenty minutes about the draft law. That's right, because Mr. Georgiadis put it, but 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u151	It takes 20 minutes! I'm done with this. I am surprised at what I said earlier, the moment when this issue has been attacked, by specific newspapers belonging to the shipowner's business interests, which is named after the isobite. I don't want to say anything else. However, as justice investigates and nothing on this point has been leaked, I am impressed by this concern. Is it really combined with research carried out last week at his business offices and should he say something? Again, however, the investigations have not come to a conclusion. So why all this? If things are so clear and undefiled, any citizen would say: "Everything in the light, cross everything and justice end up. And it will end up in my formal acquittal." That's what I'd say about myself. But all this aggression, but it's things that I'm staying here. Ladies and gentlemen, we have discussed a draft law, which has come about by the opinions of colleagues and rapporteurs from the vast majority of Parliament's parties. I would like to say about the first part of the bill, the Warsaw Plan, that it is now necessary to create a common area for the execution of judgments, the commitment and confiscation of assets arising from criminal activities, which you know very well that they are exploiting the single European area, the abolition of borders and in some cases the impression has been given that they can act uncontrollably. The European legal order does not allow this, and that is why the Warsaw Convention and the directives in question have been signed, which we are now successfully incorporating into our national law. So many years have passed since previous governments, which did not consider that there was a need - although otherwise pro-Europeanists from us - to incorporate these directives into our fairness and to promote the common European law at all levels. The second part refers to Regulation 2201 on the placement of minors in institutions in another Member State of the European Union. Here was an absolute gap in our fairness. Unfortunately, it had not been understood that there is a need for serious procedures here, the procedures of the judicial authority, so that the process of transferring them to another Member State of the European Union, to Greece, as well as the safeguarding of their rights and the control to be carried out. I would like to tell you that in this regulation - and when I say a regulation, you know very well that it is the legislative text just as it has been voted on, we do not have the possibility to intervene and intervene - the Ministry of Justice is responsible for the direct involvement of judicial and public prosecutors, particularly the prosecutor of minors, who will play a decisive role in this process. As regards the directive on the rights of access to a lawyer, I would like to say here, ladies and gentlemen, that there have been too many steps to safeguard the rights of the defendant or suspect in Greek law. With this directive, which is incorporated, these rights are fully recorded, codified. There is no doubt that any defendant who is accused of requesting the assistance of a lawyer, in the presence of any pre-investigative or investigating official, is bound to be provided and, of course, to be completely confidential and to be kept undercover. With regard to the fourth part of the bill on the House of Child, I would like to say something that has been done - I think - a common conscience to all of us: our country is one of the last European countries, unfortunately, that has done absolutely nothing in this area, contrary to all of the European countries - and I am referring to all of the European countries, not just the countries of the European Union - which have taken great steps forward. I would like to say here that it has been an unjustified and unauthorized delay of decades. I would like to stress that the directive which is incorporated is about minors who have fallen victim to their childhood and who, unfortunately, are repeatedly called - it has been heard in the bodies' hearing that up to eighteen times a person has been called before justice - to mention once and twice and more what has been suffered. Under this legislation, this process of continuous victimisation, the child, is now being stopped, all the measures planned are being taken, using the new technologies systems, so that this child is not, even when adult, in an unpleasant position to present trauma on occasion and before different judicial authorities. I would like to stress something that has not been understood, despite the fact that I have clarified it three times. Firstly, the Child Service is not charged with staff serving the Child's House. As you are well aware - I told you and described in the law - additional positions are being created. There is no problem with regard to the Child curriculum. Also, what you said to be part of this service is not bad. We are not creating a different administrative structure. But we are creating a different structure within the existing structure, precisely because it is completely functional. It will assist prosecutors and courts in the legal procedure and I think it is absolutely positive for minors. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to tell you that during the procedure before the committee and with the hearing of the bodies, we have enriched the draft law in many respects. The criticism in this House that it is supposedly a bill that has been approved by the overwhelming majority of Members and the parties, and which was today affected by the amendments tabled, is unjust criticism. It is unjust criticism, firstly, because you yourself see that the amendments tabled are absolutely necessary to be voted on because they solve serious urgent problems concerning the Greek people. In any case, however, the number of these amendments should be identified in the fact that they were most - except one - ministerial amendments which the relevant ministers felt were necessary to vote for the better completion of government work and to resolve the problems of citizens. So, ladies and gentlemen, if we agree - and I am closing down - on the bills, there is no need to invent reasons for confronting and confronting views. If we agree with the bills, let us say that we agree with the bills and not to say unnecessary words about amendments and all that is now known and which, on one point, seems to me to be making a decision and not to bother me. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u152	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u153	Mr. Georgiadis, you have bothered me six times. You've raised your hand six times. I make sense to you that I will give you the floor. If you raise it eighth, I won't see it! Minister, yesterday the House had no bill. It also has no parliamentary control tomorrow and the Rules of Procedure of the House. So the government could put the amendments in a mini-broom bill, if they were urgent, and bring them in yesterday or tomorrow, after passing them as required by the committee. I am saying this because it is a pity that a draft law on justice, which will actually be adopted by a large majority, in the context of the articles of the very important importance for the issues the forest map is negotiating.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u154	Wait a minute, Mr. President. Since you said so, I won't see, nor do I want to confront you. But I would like to tell you that certain provisions that have already been incorporated and introduced...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u155	Almost all of them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u156	...have the emergency element.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u157	I replied to you on the urgent matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u158	If what you say happened, the parliamentary procedure would have to be followed even in urgent...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u159	And it would be a mini bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u160	...which would be more wasteful of time. I think that this House can see what the urgent provisions are and what they are not. And in the final analysis on this...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u161	You realize I'm right. Leave the excuses now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u162	Mr President, not so.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u163	Okay, now you understand what I said. You're obliged as Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u164	I understood it, but I think you understood what I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u165	I understood it very well, but I do not agree with you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u166	After we both realized it, let's just let it go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u167	From there on, I have an obligation as President-in-Office, because incredible things have been heard, to say that in the Greek Parliament there is no political force that does not want to be poured light on any criminal case, particularly when it comes to drugs, because, indirectly but clearly, such hints have been left. Nobody! And this message must be sent out. Seeing all those who are in the Chamber, fortunately or unfortunately for me, I find that I am the oldest of all of you. I do not remember, at least since 1989 being in this Chamber, even once on any matter whatsoever, any Minister of any government to communicate - because, indirectly but clearly, this was confirmed today by the Minister's speech - with an Isabite drug dealer. It's over. Mr. Georgiadis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u168	Mr President, I too would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u169	What do you want to talk about?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u170	For that matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u171	Your parliamentary representative will speak. Anyone can't take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u172	I want to speak on personal grounds, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u173	Mr. President, excuse me...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u174	Mr. Contonis, wait a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u175	I didn't confirm anything at all, though...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u176	All right! Read the minutes and you'll understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u177	Listen, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u178	First of all, I didn't give you the floor. I have given the floor to Mr. Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u179	Mr President, please, I asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u180	I didn't give you the floor. I gave the floor to Mr Georgiadis
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u181	But you sent me. You said to me: read the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u182	Because you're a Minister, you won't take the floor on your own whenever you want. You don't have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u183	Mr President, I asked you to speak...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u184	I didn't give it to you!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u185	But you've been to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u186	The President is given the floor at the time when he judges and I had already given the floor to Mr Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u187	Mr. President, this is where you made a judgment...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u188	You've made a judgment, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u189	First, turn off Mr. Contonis' microphone. Nothing is written at all. There's no way with me in the Chair to substitute me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u190	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u191	Please, sit down. There's no way you're substituting me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u192	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u193	You think what you want. Here I apply the Rules of Procedure, and I tell you to sit down...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u194	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u195	Well, I'll give you the reason for courtesy after Mr. Georgiadis anyway.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u196	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u197	You don't sound. There is absolutely nothing in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u198	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u199	I'll hear you when I give you the floor. I haven't given you the floor!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u200	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u201	I have not given you the floor, I hear nothing you say!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u202	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u203	I have told you this from the outset, but impressions with me in the Bureau there is no way that I can be created.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u204	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u205	Please sit down for the last time, because the Rules apply to the ministers too. Mr. Georgiadis, you have the floor for two minutes on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u206	Minister, not only have you confirmed the call, but have you received the applause of your colleagues from the parliamentary group, when you said 'not to say 'no' to him who called to urge him to tell the truth'? That, Minister, isn't that a confirmation of the call? You wouldn't drive us crazy here. You must finally be too cramped. I read somewhere that you've seen the D.A. personally. Has this prosecutor come to your office, Mr. Contony? I ask you directly. Mrs Jima - what's her name - has she come to your office and, if so, why? Secondly, in the Western world there is the presumption of innocence. We're all innocent, Mr. Contonis, until proven guilty. You said the exact opposite to me: 'I hope you will prove your innocence'. Learn, then, about Henry Dynan I have submitted a document to examine in the committee of inquiry, because yesterday the majority of you, SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks, voted not to call the ministers until December, but to listen to every sychophant muddling us without answering. So I'm telling you that I'm not only afraid of Henry Dunan, but when I testify to the committee, you're going to run to hide. Thirdly, the case you sent yesterday at random when I asked Mr. Kammenos to the House about the twenty-three recruitments to CEDEFOP...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u207	Don't open any more topics.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u208	This is personal, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u209	The Minister did not raise this matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u210	I went in the morning to get the file to see what it is. I guess you haven't seen him, so you said what you said. I have to tell you that I have requested the copy because I will file a complaint with Mr Polakis, as well as his statement, all the service documents in the file deserve me, the legality of what Mr Paulakis has denounced and, of course, my slightest involvement, all the CEDEFOP service documents in the file. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So I took them in my possession now, or I will take them in the next few hours, after I have been given the copy, and we will see them in justice, this time and with a lawsuit with Mr Polakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u211	Finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u212	And if you have any doubts, Mr Contonis, about my innocence, make a preliminary committee. You've got a majority. Let's get the file you brought to the House randomly. I challenge you. Make her laugh, and the spooky goat. But I have not seen you have the same sensitivity, Mr Contonis, on the dossier that Mr Polakis has presented. Be careful what's the difference. For Mr. Polakis and the file he has received, Mr. President, there have been three felonies...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u213	Listen, I'm not gonna leave you!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u214	So I'm reminiscing.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u215	And close in thirty seconds!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u216	I'm reminiscing, Mr. Contonis, to look into the eyes. First, you confirmed the Kammenos call. I asked you before and you didn't answer. A phone call you said it was Kammenis's irregularity to urge the case to be settled, let's forgive it. Three phone calls - why were these posted yesterday on the phone lists - and several dozens - three, five, ten - I don't know how many sms of Kammen, what was it? Everything to encourage? I would remind you that this gentleman we are talking about...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u217	Mr. Georgiades!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u218	...he blames you...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u219	Do you hear what I'm saying? Close right now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u220	Mr. Kammenos, not you, that you were pushing him to make these complaints. So it's more reasonable, Minister, if he wants somewhere to find the truth, he'll take once...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u221	Mr. Georgiades!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u222	But if he wants to push, take many times...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u223	Can you hear me?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u224	That's what you'll answer. And I'm saying again...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u225	Mr. Georgiades, I'll remove your word if you don't finish it in thirty seconds!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u226	I'm hanging up now. The prosecutor we're talking about, have you seen her in your office? And if so, why?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u227	The Minister has heard the question and will answer it if he wishes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u228	Let me see your involvement in this case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u229	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes. Please answer the questions and do not go into the other cases that are irrelevant to the debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u230	No, no, Mr President, this is where we hear no relation to an unrelated bill. What the Vice President of New Democracy just said?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u231	I'm not talking about what you've developed. I'm talking about the other case file mentioned. You don't have to.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u232	You suggest what I will say, Mr President, please do not. Once it has been mentioned, it will have to be answered. I would like to say to you, Mr Georgiades, that from my position as Minister of Justice, whatever documents come to my office, I am obliged to forward them to the House without delay. In my office, Mr Georgiadis, there is no case in which I have checked and not been transmitted within twenty-four hours. So what you said I hadn't done the legal...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u233	I never said that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u234	You said now that I did not do the same for Mr Polakis' case.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u235	I did not see the same sensitivity of the petition here in the House. That's what I meant.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u236	But I was addressing you. I had no conversation with Mr. Polakis. Do you know how many records?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u237	Well, now do you feel like you're gonna do this to me?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u238	What's that thing?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u239	Calm down!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u240	Let me answer that, though. So I say to you, Mr Georgiadis, that with this government, whether they are Members of the Opposition or Members of the Co-Population, former government officials or anything, the documents are forwarded to the House without delay. Therefore, such references...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u241	As the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution it defines.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u242	That's right, no matter what. So I want to tell you this. I will wait for the judicial investigation and the investigation that I have already ordered to be carried out in prison for what happened and how a prisoner contacted, possibly hours outside the authorised time, with a citizen, anyone. I don't care if he's the Minister of National Defence. If there is a violation of the regulation, there is a violation of the regulation and there will be liability. How many times has he spoken, if he has spoken, and so on, all this, Mr. Georgiadis, will be shown by the investigation. But what I am saying, because that is what I understood from a number of conversations that were made public yesterday - which I do not know and which are true, I do not know whether they are stitchy, I do not know at what times they have been done, because these are simply a few things that are now being said. I'm telling you, if anyone has prompted an isovite for drug trafficking or for participation in a drug ring, of this level of two tons of pure heroin in Greece, to tell the truth and to say what he knows, is a man going to blame him in the world? I'm asking you. Tell me: Would you not do the same, Mr. Georgiadis? Because I think you would do the same. You'd be urging anyone. He says he didn't find out by the Minister of National Defence. He gave an interview, Mr. Georgiadis, which has been made public. It says names until another drug trafficking ring was paid with nine hundred pounds of heroin. That's what he says. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] So I would ask you very much to focus on these points and not on minor issues, which you can oppositionally say what you want to say, but you cannot say that in this particular case, if what happened, what is being done in the press is negative suggestions.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u243	Finish, Mr. Contony.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u244	If you were to tell me that he said, "Don't talk, don't reveal, don't say names, etc.", I would be the first to say that something is going wrong here. But here, if that is the case, the urge to uncover the truth and break a drug trafficking circuit in the country, is that negative?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u245	Why are you shouting, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u246	And you're criticizing that way?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u247	All right. Finish it up. Mr. Javarra, Mr. Theocharopoulos, sit down, please. If we were to go according to who first asked for the floor, the Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn has asked him first. However, because you are now all the Members of Parliament, with the exception of Mrs Vaki, who has asked to speak lately, as customary and correct, that is what we are going to do in accordance with the parliamentary order. I apologise to Mr Shahinides for having told him that he will speak after the Minister, but in order not to stir up now, we will go according to the parliamentary order: Mr Javarras, Mr Theocharopoulos, Mr Shahinides and the other parliamentary representatives next. Here, Mr Javarra, has the floor and you will have a relative tolerance for all the parliamentary representatives, because, as you will mention and raise the issue, it will not only be twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u248	Thank you very much, Mr President. Since this phase of the debate is very mature, I can address the Minister with an opinion that the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, as well as the SYRIZA Government and ANEL, are constantly undermining the parliamentary procedure. Why? Because now, just now, we have all had the joy and satisfaction of seeing how through orality, in other words through the oral exchange of views, which basically began with Mr Georgiadis's speech, has started an oral debate through which we, too, are involved, but the people who are listening to us, will be able to understand what the essential positions of our parties are on top issues, firstly, on issues that have to do with democracy itself, which are certainly no other way but through the strengthening of justice and justice, it is nothing other than the state's claim to punish those acts that have the character not just of a criminal behaviour, but above all they have a malicious character. So no one in this Chamber - and I am pleased, Mr President, that you, in representing the whole House - have any doubts about the arrest and punishment of those who trade in death, those who condemn youth in the greatest scourge. But, Minister, instead of talking about the two tons of heroin, should we, if we want to prove how effective it is for each of us to be, explain to us what is happening in Zephyri and in the Munich, where every day people, citizens, addicted and dependent on substances find open access to death? Do you even come to tell us today that we have any connection with those who have so far not been accused of such serious felonies? The most important thing, however, is that if I understood well, because I neither know anyone in this case nor can I personally comment on anyone, in the democracies what we have to do, is to comment on situations, relationships and procedures. Here, of course, you will allow me to say, on the occasion of the great excitement of your word and, above all, the persistent reference to the two tons of death that some are trading for, that it is not your intention to contribute to this exchange of views that Parliament needs at this time in order to regain its function towards the Greek people, but you are stirring up a trick like the one that Sopenhower has handed us over to this very beautiful spirit of "The art of always right". So there is a method that you have just used. Being right, therefore, without actually having it, you can really do it if your opponent tries and you really manage to get him to admit something publicly with which public opinion disagrees. So you want to save and do us well to admit that we have anything to do with heroin evildoers. Well, whatever you do, that's not going to work! You're just exposing yourself! I shall now tell you why you are also being exposed as a Minister of Justice, of course, to what I have said to you and in no way having the intention of devouring people - positive or negative - or of referring to this kind of flushes you have done to reduce your opponent. Minister, you said earlier that in this case where a prosecutor is involved - and we will see about it then - there is one issue. The question is the gap of truth, which you here from this Step have invoked. Firstly, you are obliged here to tell us what this vacuum of truth is because, if you know it and don't reveal it, you're probably covering up. There is a second issue. You said he was a isobite. So justice, i.e. the orderly state function involved in prosecuting and punishing felonies, has adopted its decision and made it an equal, after the process has passed all the legal stages of investigating its behaviour and any of its participants. So, here, in a reasonable way, undeniable, a clear conclusion is reached. In other words, even though there were preliminary investigations, even though all the investigations were carried out, even though it may have been carried out jointly with other states, it has given us these results, for which you said today that there is a gap of truth. It's very serious what you said. Of course, there is a very reasonable question: But is it possible when the orderly justice, when high-scientific judges, such as the sevens in such cases, have not been able to fill this void that you are telling us of truth, that the Minister of National Defence will cover it, in cooperation with a prosecutor and a convict already? Watch out now! And here I am going to make a report, to see whether and whether the Prosecutors' Prosecutors' Office - I am not talking about her name - took the initiative and said, whether by agreeing with someone or not, to go to the courtrooms. The court shall lie outside the territorial boundaries of its territorial jurisdiction. The question I ask you now is: Is there a prosecutor in the court? Is there a Primary Attorney at the headquarters of the court in which the prison has its supervisory position? Because here, on the basis of Article 24 of Law 1756/1988, which is the Code of Laws, the following arises: the Prosecutor is an independent judicial authority, and the limits of the exercise of the powers of local authority coincide with the territorial limits, with the territorial limits, of the court to which each prosecutor is responsible. So there is a question here. The question is: Has this prosecutor been chosen to deal with? Because, when one takes it and takes it from one region and takes it to another area where he is not competent, that is to say, where any act or action he is doing does not have the element of legitimacy at least, from there on, we also have a violation of another authority that has been set up to protect the citizen. This principle is the beginning of the natural judge. It is therefore incomprehensible that judicial officers should be involved in this way and that, until now, there is no one who, at least on these issues, has said the final opinion. Of course, Minister, these issues are very serious. Why is she so serious? Because if humanity does not want to reach that area or the level of culture of 1934 to 1939, which had the trials in Moscow and which innocent people were brought to death without any connection with the offences attributed to them, and indeed, as it has emerged, by confessing their actions, if we consider that a modern, prosperous and just state is a nightmare, then we should pay attention to procedural provisions and particularly to the process itself. There is a great wise man whom I would recommend to you to see also the thought: 'Then there will only be no arbitraryness in the area of justice, their administration of law, then only executive power will be able to influence judges or officials of justice, when we can and create a framework of rules in which the so-called legalisation system will exist, on the basis of a procedure.' That is what Luhmann says, and he is absolutely right, because where the arbitrary nature of any worker is limited or zero, they are where the procedures are clear, they are specific, they are laid down by rules, and in no case can any one specialize in the responsibilities of his colleague. Because if we have such a thing, Minister, then something else goes on to hide in this story. And we, of course, are not prepared to cover it up. Now I'm coming to the bill. In the same way that we have been given the opportunity to cross-check with honesty and honesty, I would like to believe, our arguments, because I will note this, what you said that in Greece, anyone who has to prove his innocence, I believe is gone by mistake.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u249	I never said such a thing, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u250	You said that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u251	But is that possible?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u252	You said it and I reacted. Here, then, we have to see that this very parliamentary procedure based on the oral exchange of views, which, then, this oral exchange of views entails the expression of positions and arguments, precisely that which is the majesty of parliamentary democracy, the majesty of popular sovereignty which is being exercised in this Chamber, you, as government, have systematically been abused over the last two years. And I'll tell you how you abuse her. You abuse it because, on the basis of Articles 72, 73, 74 of the Constitution, the debt, the duty, the power of the House is to discuss and vote for bills or legislative proposals, but 40% of the rules of law laid down under the rule of law by SYRIZA and ANELs, I repeat, 40%, have been adopted with amendments. And that's why? Because in this way you are violating the rule and trying to provide regularity status in exceptional cases of legislation. And it is an excellent case for the amendment to be adopted because it is provided for in Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure. Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure states that the amendment is an amendment to a provision of a bill or a proposal for a law or addition to the provisions of a bill or a proposal for a law relating to the bill or proposal for a law being discussed. That is why there is a ban on Article 74 of the Constitution, which stipulates that it is not introduced for debate in the House, an amendment which is irrelevant to the draft legislation under discussion. However, because it also follows the final adoption of the need or urgency, the regulatory legislator of this framework of rules says that for all this Parliament is voting at the end. However, the House is misusing the majority and, unfortunately, in this area it systematically violates the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution and brings permanent amendments which, in the worst case, are in breach of the rule of orality. One of the greatest intellectuals who are alive, George Steiner, in one of his most interesting hardships called the "Silence of Books", refers to the power of the speech, namely, he calls it: "Actuality is the truth. Orality is honest self-correction. Orality is and forms this very democracy." Because only then can democracy be proud of the fact that the laws that it is voting for and which result in written text have been worked out by the power of orality, that is to say, by the force of listening to the proposal for a law or bill by the government and enjoying the immunity of the direct questioning of what it hears and not only this, but also by expressing its counterpart, and by honouring what is proposed by a bill to take a step backwards, when it understands that it is obliged to correct itself and then re-establish a regulation under the light of exploring the right and the truth, with the synergy of everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u253	Mr. Javarra, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u254	No objections. You - and I must refer to your example - many times, indeed, in the bills you bring, have convinced us that this rule you serve. But, today, this bill that you had the honour of proposing to Parliament, you have 'enriched' it with a number of additions, unnecessarily amendments, which are in breach of the very principle, the essence of democracy which is the drafting of this legislative framework. Some of these additions or amendments have the character of a whole bill. So you come to this point and you will allow me not just to express my regret, but to say, ladies and gentlemen, if you want something positive at some point from this House, at least let it come out just once.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u255	Mr. Javarra, you have to close up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u256	The ministry of the democratic example, of Parliamentaryism, throughout all its dimension and all its greatness to rule through its representatives, who have the opportunity to exchange arguments and have this interchangeable relationship in the House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u257	I should like to inform you that all the Members of Parliament and the Minister will speak, of course, that they will have a right of denunciation, because perhaps they will have to answer some. Parliamentary spokesman for the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR Mr Athanasios Theocharopoulos. With the relative tolerance you too, Mr Theocharopoulos, if you want it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u258	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you really surprised us today. You came as the advocate of Mr. Kammenos's Minister of National Defence and you spoke. If the President would leave you a little more than twenty minutes at that time, we really don't know what we'd hear. I will tell you exactly what you have said, in relation to the issue at issue, which has been raised in today's debate. First of all, it looks like you're justifiable, because you weren't at today's Ministerial Council. Mr Famellos memorized before what the Prime Minister said, for example, in connection with the creation of so-called new jobs. You weren't. You have heard the Prime Minister say, for example, about the Ministers 'to speak the works, not the words'. And you came here in words, which you have even been exposing. In fact, Mr Tsipras said that 'we are determined that the government, to leave justice behind, should investigate all the dark aspects of the Noor -1 case'. And when we heard that and wondered if it meant something, as he spoke of dark cases, dark practices of the old political system - a more old political system than Mr. Kammenmenos, I imagine - one cannot imagine criminal acts that leave us all to the point. Then you guys came to say incredible things. You said attributes that "the Minister of National Defence did not urge anyone to do anything, but he said..." and you continued to say what he said to him. How do you even know what he said? Not only did you confirm the conversation in your first speech, but you basically said that you adopted everything he said, or that you know more about the conversation. You said: “His sin is that he urged him to tell the truth? Then what do you want? Coverage.’; Really? Are you justifying extra-institutional action like this? You continued to say, "It is never before to be accused by a minister for urging a isovirus to tell the truth. A Minister to communicate with a convict, in order to reveal the truth, cannot a priori characterize it as negative." The only excuse here, ladies and gentlemen, is that either you make Mr Kammens' bad attorney or you mention this thing to 'burn it'. There's no other reasonable explanation. This is a very serious matter, and I do not think there will be any Members here and no political force to understand the essential issue. And, of course, only as populism can I understand the fact that every time we ask you questions, you start to say how much we have to condemn all these action in relation to drugs. But the self-evident in here? At least I think there is no democratic political power here, no politician, no Member in this matter is clear. At least, I haven't heard anything. Minister, what is happening these days - and I refer to the specific subject with the communication that the Minister, Panos Kammenos, appears to have had, condemned to life imprisonment - but above all the cover-up that continues and the reactions of the Government that continue and of you show the intention of raw interventions by government officials in the work of justice. They are interventions which tragically confirm not only irresponsible and ineffective but also a decline and a risk in which the country is found when the institutions erode when democracy is struck. What did you personally do to protect justice? What are you doing to put an end to the categorisation of such unacceptable anti-institutional interventions? But what I'm asking, since you now just justify them. The responsibilities, of course, to be honest, Minister, are not just about you. They're collective. This is about Mr. Tsipras. Does the Prime Minister not understand the risk of this? Expose irreparably to your Government. What concerns us is the country and we will not let you put the country at risk. At the same time, we heard you refer to this bill. We say to you, 'Additional amendments to an irrelevant bill'. You have explained and said 'we are bringing them in, because we cannot make it in the form of urgency'. In fact, at that time, you were proposed by the president to bring in a bill yesterday or tomorrow. You said 'we are not in the form of an emergency'.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u259	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u260	That is exactly what you said, Minister. See the Minutes. Listen to what you're saying and you'll answer then. So you said that, in the form of an emergency, they had to go through the committees again. The right legalization does not exist for some reason that nobody understands. There is to be credible criticism, correct your mistakes, see your mistakes, and proceed in a way that effectively protects the political system. Unfortunately, you do not understand that either. I referred to the Prime Minister's speech to the Minister's Council a moment ago. Citizens don't eat spoon. I am referring to all your government, Minister. "This is the first time," the Prime Minister said, "that we made a good decision on Eurogroup. He accused us of all the opposition to miserable opposition criticism of the country." So the criticism of the essential opposition you see as miserable, and miserable is your policy, a policy that actually regenerates poverty. It's nothing else at all. Indeed, we have heard today explain how positive things have gone in the negotiations, to call upon the Prime Minister to invoke the investors' reactions. He does not see the world, he sees the investors and even the investors see the evidence wrong. It is said that in 2018 we will have the first test exit on the markets. The one we had in 2014 told us today that we will have it in 2018 as a success. Writing didn't put it because the debt wasn't solved. The restructuring of the debt was essentially referred to as the bells. We're not in quantitative relaxation. The primary surpluses have been unbearable for too many years. In this situation that we are in today, you actually dare to talk about an agreement that can get the country out of the crisis. It's not like that. To speak honestly at last to the Greek people. At some point I believed in the Ministerial Council when I was listening to the Prime Minister that he would propose that the measures be voted down because he did not take the restructuring of the public debt as promised. But of course he forgot. Forget his commitment, too. It's your election commitment. That's how you go to the country's rulership: with populism, with promise and lies. Of course, he said that we would not need new measures in the coming years. He forgot that he has adopted measures for 2019 and 2020, in addition to what is to be done in the coming years. Of course, as did your Minister here, Mr Famellos spoke about the job balance that is positive, forgetting the part-time jobs, what Mrs Ahtsoglou said recently in Europe, that there are tens of thousands of workers with 200 euros a month in our country. He forgot everything about a communal propaganda. The country cannot go like this, lies in all matters. At the same time, I will refer to the beginning and then move on to a number of issues of the bill to a critical amendment that is crucial to its historic path throughout this period, in relation to television licences. The Minister of State came here and told us that he would take this provision back. It essentially brings an amendment to which the contested provision for the four licences is changed. And so he just brought it into a bill unrelated, then he left without explaining anything more. Look. We will remind you of these issues in relation to this amendment. In October 2015, you passed this law on television licences, with a proposal from the Florence Institute for four licenses, if we remember it well. Then you voted. We told you to put the PSE's assent. You did not then, in 2015. You refused. Go ahead and after you did all the procedures, Mr. Papapas said at the International Exhibition of Thessaloniki when he had come: "We don't chew." The Prime Minister then started, before the decision of the court of the Council of State comes out, saying that 'these things are not done', 'I don't give a chance to cancel the contest'. Then we had the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr Polakis, who came here today to make incredible statements against workers - remember - after the question he made a journalist to the Prime Minister at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition. The Prime Minister said "I'm glad we closed down the business bags". And the decision of the Council of State about the constitutionality of the law comes out. At night, the Government Representative comes out and attacks the Council of State. Then move on to other issues, such as, for example, that in the five days you would close the channels that did not have the temporary permits, which you are taking back this too. You are proposing for President of the National Broadcasting Council Mr Polydora. After the outcry, you get it back. We're telling you to set up a National Broadcasting Council. You are bringing an amendment here, and after two years, you are in agreement with the National Broadcasting Council. Let's go with the proposal of the Democratic Association for Dismissal, a National Broadcasting Council is formed despite the divisive, at that time, reasonable SYRIZA and New Democracy in this particular matter. And you come today just to say that you are bringing this fragmented arrangement in this way and without any roadmap for what will happen from now on. Finally, stop the fragmentation arrangements on all issues. Come and talk seriously about what we want in the broadcasting field because we want to get into order. Since the first moment we have said, in 2015, that the National Broadcasting Council must play its dominant role and the government must present its plan to us. Unfortunately, you do not. Ladies and gentlemen, we are here today discussing a draft law by the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, and for the past two and a half years there have been many questions and many concerns have arisen about how the government is dealing with both justice and transparency and human rights. For two and a half years we have been living on the case-by-case basis, apart from the case-law in Parliament, the case-by-case acceptance of the judgments of the Supreme Court - I told you a typical example a moment ago - and, in conclusion, the rivalry between the powers that are obviously inconsistent with democracy. What should anyone want first? The strong and unacceptable reaction, a moment ago, of the Government to a Supreme Court ruling on permits, or do the government's demeaning reaction to the S.H.E.'s ruling on the unconstitutionality of the choice of directors by the Education Association or on how to deal with the independent authorities, which even when you create them at the same time find ways and look for ways to control them? Respect for justice is not a matter of statements. It's a matter of faith in her and respect for her independence. It shall not be expressed on a case-by-case basis. There is no decision to respect it, another to regard it as a coup d'état, another to denounce it as a coup d'état. In order for the government to convince us that it respects justice it must give examples of writing that it always defends its independence, not on a case-by-case basis. Except we haven't seen this yet. You have vowed faith in the Constitution and in the laws only which, in fact, are subject to your general policy, to confrontation on a case-by-case and contradictory basis. The result is for the citizen to experience frustration at all levels. Unfortunately, we are discussing all this today in a bill on the incorporation of contractual and Union texts and moving in the right direction, despite some reservations we have said, and the special speaker of the Democratic Incorporation, Mr Papatheodorou, has said so in both committees and, of course, in plenary. With regard to the conditions and procedure for the placement of minors in institutions or contractors, we have said that they are moving in the right direction, but it would require a more general and holistic way of dealing with the issue. As regards the harmonisation of national law with the provisions of the directive on the rights of the defendant in criminal proceedings, there should be certain safeguards in order to limit the communication of the defendant in exceptional cases and due to a direct risk that the provision will not be misused. With regard to the incorporation of the Directive establishing minimum standards on the rights, support and protection of victims of crime, although the provisions are primarily positive, some issues are raised, including the way in which in the transition stage the creation of the independent agencies for the protection of minors is completed. More generally on many of the issues raised in these regulations we are very far behind, and that is a problem, compared with the other European countries, and we should literally run so that they can be implemented. The timely creation of the required infrastructure is of catalytic importance and it depends on reflexes in any case. I am not going to go into any other amendments, which we have also said about, and we will also be voting on. What I would like to say, however, is that this cannot continue. The country, in fact, needs protection of justice and the independent authorities and respect for a rule of law. We also need a new production reconstruction plan and another mixture of economic policy with a development shock that will take us out of the crisis. Unfortunately, at all levels - and today we have seen a level which has nothing to do with negotiation, nothing to do with the memorandum - you are inferior to the circumstances. It can't go on. The country needs another policy to get out of the crisis and there is no need for such behaviour, such a political situation, such a confrontation as the present one who sees it and nothing else. We must finally be able to resolve the problems and not constantly create new as a political system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u261	Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn Mr Ioannis Sahinides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u262	Thank you, Mr President. Before I comment on the amendments tabled, I think it is appropriate to refer to a number of separate events that have taken place in recent days. The first relates directly to your democratic reflexes. It's a kind of test, if you want, to see if they exist, whether they work, if they work, if they work normally or selectively, a la cart. About six days ago, there was a terrorist attack against the Golden Dawn offices in the Aspropyrgos region. In fact, there was no conviction, as is customary in similar other cases. And I say 'terrorist' because it was purely terrorist. They were thirty anarchist fascists who were in falsified police uniforms. They were wearing, Minister, - give a little base, it is very serious what I am saying to you - bulletproofly, the thirty para-states or perhaps even statemen, because when they left, after the four children were beaten at the offices, they also lit a lighthouse for the police. That's where we didn't see your sensitivity. This newspaper, as you can see - and I will present it in the Minutes of the House - has a picture, Minister, that if I don't unleash the newspaper to see that it is Golden Dawn, you will have the impression that it is a Syrian newspaper from the battlefields in Syria. This man you see is one of the four who was attacked. There were two men and two women. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Sahinides, presents for the Minutes the above-mentioned newspaper, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So the attack on our offices was purely terrorist. They broke with a hammer both hands of a young girl. There are a number of issues coming up here. Maybe it's weird for you - for us it's not what we've seen in the last few days - tell me some people you don't know about the incident. A similar thing was said yesterday in the trial of Golden Dawn where when Mr. Kourkoulas, who is also in charge of an NGO "Stop Racism", was asked by the defense advocate if he knew about the assassination of the two competitors, George and Manos, he said he had not come to his senses. This is a little paradoxical, Minister. I believe this fact is ours...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u263	What are you asking me?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u264	No, I'm just asking you...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u265	What are you asking me? What did the witness say?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u266	But you can't hear me. I didn't have time to ask you the question. Don't get ahead of yourself, Minister. That's exactly what I want to ask you. Didn't the fact of the office attacking your perception? And what if he's been down on how fast your reflexes are? We had a similar case here last year in the Constitution, a case that we condemned, and we, the Golden Dawn, like all the parties in this House - and even an attempt had been made to give responsibility to the Golden Dawn that we were responsible - Mr Kumucako, who finally proved that absolutely nothing to do with us. There your reflexes were fast. In this case there were cameras that recorded the incident. We are waiting, Minister, for you to make a commitment that there will be light. And we are waiting, because we have very bad experience of the so far attacks on the Golden Dawn. A few months ago there was a similar attack on the Secretary of the Golden Dawn Parliamentary Group, the George of Germenis, and even though he recognized some, there was no arrest at all and we do not know where he is. It has also asked timely questions, questions have also been asked. You have absolutely not condemned any attack on the Golden Dawn. As in other cases within the Greek Parliament and from parties leaders from both the Bureau and from parliamentarians and speakers, and from simple speakers they were all popular. We therefore demand that you condemn it to prove that you are not hypocrites and are not selectively condemning the acts of violence, this attack on the Golden Dawn. Here, however, are some rhetorical questions. Ask the first question: How would you really react, ladies and gentlemen, if this attack took place in offices of another party? Question 2, if any of the defenders, the four competitors, were to disarm one of the attackers, why did they have hammers as I said to you, Minister, and hit one of the attackers, or would it be a state of defense? Third question: if I were the competitor's and as a Member - and since I was allowed to be armored - I would go so far as to put my life at risk and make use of the gun, what would happen? Take a position, now condemn, search for the anarchist criminals not to enter this case, as I said before, once again in the archive, such as the murder of the competitors George and Manos and the serious injury of Alexander Older. We've heard a lot before. We heard, I'd say with a lot of nerve, Mr. Georgiadis. And here, Minister, you could play a little better - let me use this expression - and I will tell you why. Mr Georgiadis and his party carried out a slogan of parliamentary control by the New Democracy. New Democracy showed as its own the question of SYRIZA competitor Giannis Lagos - ANEL with organized crime just twelve days ago. Immunity, therefore, to the terrorists on the left from the false right of the New Democracy. So there is no limit to the audacity of the so-called memorial and opposing. Of course as totally incapable of stealing directly from the Golden Dawn, in which, of course, you do not dare to answer in advance the criminal organization. A great deal has come about, therefore, through a series of communications and this has been caused by the New Democracy - here they are laughing - about relations, as I have said before, of your coexistence with organised crime and terrorism. In particular, the New Democracy Communication states ‘it concerns Kammenos contacts with the condemned Giannousakis’ and as a source, in fact, the newspaper ‘KARPI’ was mentioned. Of course, this matter had caused, as I said before, a political earthquake just twelve days ago, when the competitor Yiannis Lagos had carried out these revelations, both for Kammenos - Yannousakis contacts and for the phrase of a SYRIZA strain, Diamanou in the prisons of minors. At that time, both SYRIZA and the New Democracy forged indifferently, avoiding at this time responding beyond the statements in defence of terrorists. We also had statements from the President of Parliament. Here, Minister, could you - as I said before - ask Mr Georgiadis, why did he, after twelve days, make this point exactly? In these twelve days, Minister, was he looking to see if there is a relationship between some of theirs from New Democracy, so that it can completely silence the fact? Watch it! The New Democracy, therefore, has waited twelve whole days for it to be forgotten. Of course he did. As far as the question of the hare competitor is concerned, he chose to refer to a single part of it, what was involved in business interests again - as he has done today, Minister, with you today - as a counterweight between the New Democracy and the SYRIZA. However, no one has dealt with the fact that the New Democracy, on the one hand, provides, as I said before, immunity to the terrorists along with SYRIZA and, on the other hand, made a demonstration of petty and immoral anti-parliamentary behaviour. There's been a reference to an offense circuit. We, as Golden Dawn, have, unfortunately, a very bad experience of the outlawing circuit. It was what imprisoned the Chief and Secretary General of the Golden Dawn, MPs and members of the movement. Let us say - here is the courage that he mentioned earlier - Mr Babis Athanasios, was it not the one who called the Prosecutor Chami, was it not Samaras who called the Prosecutor Doyako and they have the courage in New Democracy today and are coming and waving the finger on whether ministers or Prime Minister is disturbing prosecutors? Here, of course, there is also a question with Mr Kammenos. What was Mr. Kammenos doing to have a dialogue with the isovite? From exaggerated zeal as you mentioned, Minister? It made me a terrible impression. It would have a reasonable explanation if you, as Minister of Justice, did, wanting to present an exaggerated zeal. What is Mr. Kammenos's job really? Where has the Minister ever heard of getting in between so that problems can be solved? The President of Parliament, Mr Voutsis, has therefore ruled out the Members of the Golden Dawn - listen, for those who do not know it - from every parliamentary mission abroad. And this, despite the fact that it has not been convicted - because this has already been mentioned in this Chamber - none of the party for a criminal organization and while the trial continues. Prior to that, Adonis Georgiadis was hit on the presumption of innocence. This is probably the presumption of innocence for everyone other than nationalists. So you respect the presumption of innocence? Is that how you believe in democratic institutions? Putting additional Vice-Presidents into the Bureau of Parliament, once again excluding the third political force. We heard the Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy, Mr Javara, beating himself beforehand to the unbaptised of the Menidian. Mr. Javarra, wasn't there the unbaptized in the Mind? Wasn't the unbaptized of Exarchates in your day? Was it created now? Article 11(1) of the Greek Constitution: The Greeks have the right to meet quietly without weapons. The Minister for Labour, Mrs Ahtsioglou, accepted yesterday to discuss the rights of workers, representatives - says - of the Pakistani community, who went out and marched to Mendidi and Aspropyrgos and even went out with guns, soups on the shoulders. Is this an infringement of duty, Minister, to accept people who have absolutely no right to meet even peacefully in our homeland? Where will that tolerance come anyway? I'd like to close up with one last thing. Unfortunately, I do not have time to comment on the amendments. After all, we are voting against them. We will be put to the vote. The New Democracy and SYRIZA have said they are fighting corruption and conflict. What I'm about to mention, I think most of you don't know about it. I'll submit it to the Minutes so it can be at your disposal. Reveal ‘bomb’: ‘Brother Varvichiotis Fund who is preparing to buy red business loans’. With the relevant joint press release issued yesterday by Eurobank and Alpha Bank, they are preparing to sell the non-performing business loans in a company scheme, which includes the well-known investment company PILLARSTONE, KKR FINANCIAL, with the bank coverage of the European Investment Bank and the blessings of the Bank of Greece. However, we were surprised to see in this newsletter that a representative of this company scheme in Greece is no more than Thomas Varvitsiotis, brother of the MP of the New Democracy. At a time when the New Democracy had taken a negative vote on the provisions of the Multi-Project on Red Loans, despite the opposite forecasts and leaks of the previous weeks, the company of Mr. Varvitsiotis and Giannis Olympios included in its clientele the “KKR CREDIT”, which it represents in Greece. This is the first investment fund that has been interested in the acquisition of known red loans by banks, which a few days ago set up a management scheme for non-performing loans in Greece with Alpha Bank and Eurobank. With this deal, this twin enters a market that will remain in the investment for the next two years. And all this despite the fall of last year. So in relation to the Samara period, Varvitsiotis and Olympians were challenging everything in their path. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Ms. CHRISTOPOULOUou, takes over the President's seat.]] However, the most important thing is to do with the political and moral issue, which arises for you, gentlemen of the New Democracy, and more for Mr Miltiades Varvitsiotis, an important member of the Mitsotakis system, in other words, that his brother is doing business on a front that was reproved by you, by the New Democracy. Of course, no one should forget Giannis Olympiou's blood relationships with Antonis Samaras, whose secret partner was. Questions are therefore multiplied, considering that the key role of the main company's approach to the 'KKR CREDIT', according to information, was played by the banker Anthony Tomopoulos, who had tried to bring this fund into contact with the Piraeus Bank. So while political punks, right and left, sign memorials and destroy the country, they themselves and their soybeans do business on the shell of Greece. They're about to fly on their way to Greek citizens. After the company "PQH", Mr. Tsakalotou's brother, who will also take over this sale of red loans, today we revealed you the business and the rest of the right.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u267	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u268	I shall conclude, Madam President. For those who do not know the company I mentioned, "PQH", it is the company that has been active for ten days in the region of Epirus. It is a company that bought the bad part of the then agricultural bank and makes seizures. In fact, they go with magistrates and find the stockfarmers in their stadiums and indulge them with the confiscations. You're passing through!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u269	Mrs Bakis, SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman, has spoken for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u270	Thank you very much, Madam President. I intend to refer in detail to a very important bill, which, however, was literally wronged by all this austerity, which came out in this Chamber on the occasion of the reference to the incident at Noor 1. You dared to talk about anti-institutional interventions, anti-democratic aberrations. I believe that there is no greater benefit of the public sphere, of this sacred area of Parliament, of the temple of democracy than of discussing the National Representation on the basis of a intercepted conversation, which happened to be published in a form. What can I say, colleagues? However, since the matter has been raised, let me say a few words. Selective or misuse of information? With some witnesses who then disappeared from the face of the earth - seven found dead - no one dealt with. For some interview the doomed isobite gave, there was no comment. For some irregularities in the prison regulations, it's been a mess. The 2,1 tons of heroin won't say anything? With business interests, will we be associated or with the efforts of justice to investigate a case and the economic police, to carry out financial checks? So that we do not remember, of course, a commonly professed trial with roll-overs and strange exemptions. I think it is an obligation for the state, economic police and justice to investigate such a serious case. Nor can we look at the scourge of youth, which is drugs, when it comes to complaints concerning the university area - and, of course, when a bill is on the table that we do not like and which restores the asylum you do not want - our dear fellow Member from Potami, and on such serious issues as the two tons of cocaine and we insist on the alleged violation and the irregularity of the prison regulation. On the subject of education, I think when the bill comes, we'll have a chance to discuss it. I'd like to answer another question. We have also heard from our colleague from the Chief of Staff for the Super-Canary Minister, for that shameful law, for the disgusting, failed super-Canary, who tried to impose a Soviet-type regime on the media. For all this, I would like to say one thing. If some were overcrowded, they were literally the ones who made use of a constitutionally established public good, they were "aircrafting" literally and for years were operating with free and sea-loving. They were the ones who did not even pay the television advertising taxes, nor did they pay the fees for the use of frequencies. Didn't that hurt us or did your democratic sensitivity and pluralism express the greatest with that black one on public television in 2013? Not to mention derogating designations, you of the democratic and sensitive, where you liked ministers of our government, a democratically elected government, with 'Georgarians'. And we'd heard the most about North Korea, about Soviet and so on. And you are the ones who ask for and for the resignations of journalists from public television when their comments are unlike you. Finally, in the Parliamentary Representative of Democratic Incorporation, because he has made a detailed reference to the issue of the second debt assessment by reproducing normal catastrophe, I will say two things. Look, yes, it is our duty - and it has been a debt to this government since it was opposition - to show the debt as a major one. We did not create the country's debt, but we received it. And it's one of the inheritances that, unfortunately, you can't get rid of. We did not create the 320 billion, ladies and gentlemen. And, of course, we know very well that the debt in this Europe - for which we can say a great deal and which has sincerely entered a dangerous orbit - has worked for our country, but also for every indebted country - as the Danades' stench, which was filled with sacrifices, labor and blood of the Greek people to slowly empty. And it is also used as a tool for austerity reproduction and as a Trojan horse to smuggle social rights, political rights, conquests and dismantle the labour market. It's all known. That is why he has rightly done - and he is doing - the government, which has indicated its debt, its restructuring, the recasting of its profile - as you say - as a major issue. From there on, in such battles and in battles with hard correlations of power and negative power connections there are small victories, there are small defeats, there are some compromises. At least, however, there were some battles and some messages that went through. Because, let's say this government doesn't know how to negotiate, it's incompetent, they're apprentices, etc. The previous successful negotiation of what was recommended? What was a successful negotiation, ladies and gentlemen of the counterpopulation? The Forget it Yiannis and the oaths on the competitiveness of the economy, the fact that you are the measure of structural reforms? And who were they? Has the'success story' of internal devaluation that launched unemployment at 27% removed from our country 1/4 of its national wealth? Even at war, such a loss of national wealth would be incomprehensible. What was the competitiveness of the economy by you 'opportunities', 'effective' technocrats? The public contractors, the redundancies of the 400 euro cleaners or the 'black' on public television? Was it the sea-loving in the chosen and farewells? So that you do not threaten our re-election to the perpetrators of power! You may vote against all measures, negatives. It's your right. But the question of debt and this attempt to get out of the committee, I think we should all support it. When, of course, the European press was together a couple of days before the rating was closed, with the flagship of "LIBERATION", it called for assistance and solidarity in Greece, when Pitella at "DIE WELT" called on Shoeble to stop opposing the debt relief, which he considered necessary, when even the "BILD" wrote that Shoeble wanted to keep the Greek rescue outside his election campaign, your favourite literature, your favourite authors were talking on the same day about apprentices, incompetents, to the tutors, to a society and to a government that sits on the bulbs, etc. When all the Germans, almost a few days before the evaluation closed, were calling on Symblee to resign, you were calling - and you are calling - a democratically elected government to resign. Is that your patriotism, colleagues? Maybe we didn't get what we wanted. And I can tell you about the surpluses. Yeah, 3.5% is high. For the 2% surplus, which you are fighting for, you know, and the Eurozone, which you so much love and which you have wanted - and you have said it since 2015 - to stay in the Eurozone imposes 2.6% surplus in its member countries. And, of course, because it is not only criticism, but also from whom is it, do you speak with the fifth evaluation, where you were unable to close Hardouvel's mail, did you condemn the country in surpluses of 4.2% by 2030? Irrespectively Savages! Because it would be a pity to blame a very important bill, which has not been properly debated, let me say a few words about it because it really is important. The ratification and adaptation of Greek legislation in the Warsaw Convention is guided by a spirit which must govern a rule of law, a united state, as was seen by the long tradition of European youth. Ladies and gentlemen, if there is a common denominator, a thread that runs seemingly heated by the incorporation of the Community directive, this concerns not only our right to have rights in our own capacity, human beings, detached from individual definitions of the race, nation, class, sex, religion, it is not only our right to know our rights, but above all, it concerns the attempt to remove the known dividing between legal certainty and the introduction of rights and their thing of default. In 1989 the Convention on the Rights of the Child was born, which gives them rights and the state the responsibility to secure them. The child has the right to an ID, a name, a nationality, a family that cares about it. He has a right to choose his religion, beliefs and friends. He has a right to protection against abuse, exploitation, kidnapping. It has a right to health and education, to care, clean water, clothes and shelter, to play and to relax. He has the right to legal support, he has the right to special care and protection if he is a refugee. The debate and the vote of our bill today coincides almost with the World Refugee Day, which was yesterday. Let me be allowed to extrapolate by reference to these children, the refugees, whose violent maturity has been sealed by hundreds of kilometres, fleeing war zones, the seabed that painted oranges of their drowned parents, the Aegean waves that resisted them and their longing to reunited with their families or find a new family. Ladies and gentlemen, children who have not been lost to the dragon the well, in the thong cave, in the well-known song of the Dionysus Savvopoulou, but have been used in challenging, sexual exploitation and sale of organs, make the conventions on the rights of the child an empty legal letter, an unfavourable promise, another footnote for the European Union. This bill aims to shield and protect these rights, but also to protect other vulnerable social groups, which became the fuel material of the modern barbarism of an illegible, man-born capitalism, called human trafficking, human trafficking, traveling, and became the synonym of a post-menstrual slavery that annulled the new internal legal device, which was grounded in the dignity of the person. Women slaves, abused, mutilated, victims of precarious work and exploitation, bunks of fear and decommissioned by the conviction that they will never be justified or if they claim their right, they may be deformed by a vitriol in the face, not only canceled a few centuries of feminist struggles, but also a long tradition of European enlightenment. Let us hope - and I close - that the essential provision of assistance and assistance, the uninterrupted communication between the victim and every competent authority, the personalised approach, which focuses on the specific characteristics of the victim, the right to interpretation and translation, access to information on their case, but also on support and care services, will restore dignity to people injured and desperate and will make the rule of law, European judicial culture, deserve its name. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u271	The Minister has the floor for a legislative improvement.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u272	Madam President, the latest legislative improvements had not yet been included, as referred to in Article 88 of the draft law, as incorporated. I'm just sorry. By mistake, he hadn't entered. Please share with colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u273	Please share the legislative improvement of the Minister for Justice. Mr Karathanasopoulos has the floor from the JRC.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u274	Thank you, Madam President. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] If I could say something about what was one-stop the debate, it would be nothing but the 'beautiful world, morally, angelically false'. Of course, we as a JRC are not going to deal with this matter at all. And we will not deal with this at all, because it is not our world. It's your world, the world that you either believe in or overthrow him. Because wars, smuggling, drugs are children and not the scumbags of the capitalist system, a system that rots and throws up its boots. That is why, in its most extreme forms, as the poet said, "In Judas the liberation left was the hashish the people never woke up". From this point of view, during the period of the capitalist crisis and the deepening, the conflict has risen between the business groups for who will survive, for who will gain a greater part of the pie, a dispute without principles and limits, a conflict of business war, in fact, for the redistribution of the pie at all levels, in all sectors and sectors of the economy. That is why the revelations - possibly or not - of involvement in trafficking in drugs, business groups, entrepreneurs and a number of other phenomena, which sometimes flood the public sphere, as well as the various scandals, which highlight this boot. That's the system. It is also your class justice, which you are defending, because the law is the law of the mighty. It defends civil law, the interests of dominant business groups, the dominant class, the bourgeoisie, because it enforced its right to the working class and the rest of the populace. It is a justice, which is not only blind, but which sees the class interest too clearly. And this defends it with nails and teeth, because it is a justice condemning students who are struggling, persecuting farmers and workers who are struggling and, at the same time, leaving employers and state arbitrary to the unavoidable. And you have found the basis of these developments of news, as the sovereign media make it, because they want and disorientate the world - at the same time to throw the ball at the platform, at a time when, on the basis of the Eurogroup's decision, the second assessment, for a decision that the government celebrates, has had a great success, which was nothing but the ratification of the new barbaric measures, anti-grassroots, which were added to the previous memoranda of the governments of the New Democracy and PASOK, but also the SYRIZA - ANEL with the third Memorandum. And with provocative courage today, the Prime Minister celebrated at the cabinet and said it is a successful agreement, because the markets reacted positively, because they welcomed it. And he said, "Look where the spreads of government bonds went." However, when markets celebrate, speculators and gamblers really need to be concerned about working class and other popular strata. The Prime Minister claimed that a clear outlet is now being formed from the crisis, exiting the memoranda and supervision. It lies - and, indeed, fatal lies - because it remains intact the whole of the anti-French legislative framework that they have imposed - and they have imposed - on all the memoranda for a very cheap and flexible work force without rights, at the same time shielding the issue of competitiveness and capitalist profitability. And he lies that we are getting out of the commission and supervision when the same signature of the Eurogroup's decision, which the Greek Government has put forward, is talking about primary surpluses up to 2060, of 2%. When the European Union itself has established for all the Member States of the euro area that there should be surplus budgets, that there is the European semester, which, as a damsel, falls within all the budgets of the Member States of the euro area. When there is a divergence, then the automatic budget cut is involved, either to increase revenue and taxation or to reduce expenditure. Well, from no surveillance, we don't come out. And the Prime Minister has celebrated because with this decision, he says, we will go out to the markets and we will increase liquidity. It's like that doesn't mean a new debt. New state debt. On whose behalf will this exit be on the markets? But, on behalf of the monopolistic groups, confirming that the state debt did not create it by the people, confirming that the state debt will pay it and pay it up to the last penny of the Greek people, if this situation does not change, precisely because the state debt was created to support the business interests of monopolistic groups, their investment plans. On this basis, the preferential tax treatment of business groups with more scandalous logistics was imposed. This is what the huge motives - fiscal, business, investment - are being given to the business groups. In this very necessity is the system of public spending for the benefit of business groups, which is why it is pressing and the position that each capitalist state represents that the state sells cheaply to the capitalists and buys too expensively from them, just to shield their profitability. And in this context, of course, the government also incorporates new tools, such as the development bank, which will be borrowed on the basis of markets. He'll find new tools to fund monopolist groups. For an imminent development, as the Prime Minister pointed out. Of course, there can be growth in the next period of time. A development uncertain, a development which will not lead to a way out for the benefit of the people, but will instead be a development characterised by the escalation of the attack on workers. It will be a development which, with the established framework, will bring together almost all the economic activity in the monopolistic groups, since they violently remove the self-employed, the professionals, the traders, the poor medium-sized farms from economic and production activity for the benefit of the monopolistic groups. It will be a development for which the working class and other popular layers will continue to bleed. They will continue to sacrifice the satisfaction of peoples in the altar of competitiveness and capitalist profitability. Because the account, during the period of capitalist development, was nothing but "continue the sacrifices, so capitalist growth can continue". It is a challenge for the Greek people to continue to bleed in order to accumulate more and more riches in the hands of a handful of capitalists. But the greatest challenge is the fact - at a time when all the objective conditions exist - not only to cover all the losses that have been accepted by the working class and the rest of the people, but also to satisfy all the modern and enlarged people's needs - to call on the people to reconcile with poverty, impoverishment and aggregation, by reducing demands, with energy poverty and all the rest. And that is the framework that you have shaped, the reproduction, that is, of a very cheap workforce in the name of this capitalist development. This is the framework that is constantly and daily with the number of legislation and the amendments you bring to it. For example, both the amendments on 'FRAPORT' and the TEC. What do they make of it? It is this policy of privatisation, the armouring and safeguarding of the interests of large monopolistic groups, the multinationals, who have invested in the "FRAPORT" of the German consortium or are going to invest in the DESCRIP, through the acquisition of the majority of the package. A similar logic also applies to the infamous amendment to the Pope's bill, what was named the Pappa bill, on television licences. What have we seen lately? What did the government say? He said he'd try to put order in this environment of lawlessness that prevailed in the television media. And what has been proved? That not only has it not only entered class, but competition between the business groups has also increased even further for who will dominate, for the publications and for the electronic media, in whose business interests they will go through. And this conflict, this conflict is boundless and principled. They exploit every means, so that they can just strengthen their place and take a larger piece of the pie. The government does not just monitor this dispute, but participates actively in supporting certain business groups in this effort. What's the point? What's the result? And the control of information and culture should go through and remain in the hands of a handful of business groups depending on their own interests, but at the same time, a framework should be established for the workers themselves, which is particularly dangerous, with redundancies, with overturns in labour relations, with unpaid jobs, which they have to receive. In this situation the government, not only does nothing but the dialogue it has with the other parties is who will determine the way in which licences and permits will be granted, whether the Minister is responsible for information matters or whether he will be the "independent" PSE. But the essence is that the information remains in the hands of business groups, and they define what will learn and how the Greek people and the government will learn about it indifferently. That is why we have voted against the Pappa law from the outset. A similar logic, armouring and safeguarding of business interests is the so-called amendment of the Ministry of Shipping, where in essence it grants the shipowners cheaply in the name of the so-called apprenticeship.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u275	It's not like that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u276	That is the case, Minister, because jobs are occupied by students at the apprenticeship school...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u277	It's their practice.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u278	But they're jobs they occupy. They join the crew, within the organic composition...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u279	It's not what you call it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u280	...and that's why the state is subsidising them, instead of the shipowners paying for it. So, what do you provide? For free work you provide in the context of apprenticeship.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u281	I'll answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u282	Like free work it's not just to shipowners, it's also to hotels. Learning there isn't there, and have so-called students of the various tourist schools, either from Greece or abroad, been flooded to make their education, practice?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u283	But it's another thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u284	And you're looking to find a hotel employee with built-in labour rights!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u285	It's another thing. It's not like that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u286	A similar situation is formed in shipowners as well. The same thing is, Minister. For free work for shipowners in the composition, which is falling.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u287	It's not like that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u288	This is the development of things that you are going through and which you are doing with this particular amendment. Finally, in order not to go far beyond my time, the whole of this bill is precisely the quintusia of what we have revealed. Why, in essence, is the core of the bill? It is nothing but the shielding of the capitalist system and the incorporation into the Greek legal system of the Warsaw Convention of 2005. What is the essence of the Warsaw Convention in the name of combating terrorism? It is the inner enemy, the enemy-people, the hostile popular movement, which is fighting to overthrow the situation. But if you think that with such contracts you will be able to prevent the radicalization and emancipation of the working class from capitalist bonds, you are deeply mistaken.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u289	Mr Katsikis, Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u290	Thank you, Madam President. I shall try, as the last one, to be brief, firstly by saying that as a new Member I have been taught - and especially lately - through this Chamber, that the rule has probably been changed into an exception and that the exception to rule has been made, when we are called upon to place ourselves in a bill of the Ministry of Justice and instead we put positions and opinions on anything else, rather than focusing on the subject for which today's plenary session was intended. Of course, I see with regret and regret that the Chamber of Deputies is turning into a court of law and a telephony, since we are being watched by the Greeks and by the Canal of Parliament, and possibly by other channels, which at this time or next will broadcast what is happening and spent in this area. It turns into a court of law, when voices of counterpopulation do nothing but attempt, taking advantage of the "yellow" pression, to promote him and to have him as the object of political confrontation and disorientation. They are trying, in other words, to defy and slander the Chief of Independent Greeks, believing that they will hurt him and, as a government partner, they will create problems in SYRIZA - ANEL co-government. I want to tell them they're deeply laughed. Let them be patient, as colleagues of anti-Population have asked a timely question to the President of the Independent Greeks and Minister of National Defence, asking for clarification on what has happened and has recently been made public. Let them wait and try not to take advantage of the meeting in a bill, by having an unrelated debate, which does not look for any honour to them, especially to those who, even before - I am referring to the Democratic Assent - support and support human rights, thus giving the impression - in a more general context I am referring to - that there is no human right for a prisoner, any prisoner, to speak to a politician, any politician. And of course, since I am taught through this Chamber and by old Members of Parliament that in a bill we can say anything other than this bill, we are talking today about the agreement that has been reached, talking about television licences, so I am going to be carried out here today in this Chamber. I would like to honestly ask when you were right about the agreement, when you were shouting that the agreement itself does not come, condemning the work of the government, or now that you are shouting, why did this agreement come? The briefing to the political leaders for the agreement itself by the Prime Minister resulted in the Chief of the Democratic Association talking about neck loops, not recalling and not abstracting that "In the house of the hanged one they do not speak of atrocities". Honestly, I was pleased to become even more proud as a Greek and a politician when I heard the Prime Minister say that you put us in the memorandum, but come to the Kastelorizo itself, tell you that we are now taking the Greek people out of the memorandum. And I would remind you of what was first recorded in history by your former Prime Minister, gentlemen of the Democratic Association, George Papandreou. It was recorded with three elements, which will remain indelibly and tarnished your story in the modern political history of Greece. The first is that "Let's exist", the second is that he was deducted as Prime Minister by you, by his own parliamentary group and the third is that he was the only Prime Minister who was not re-elected as a Member. I do not know if I have to go ahead saying all that has nothing to do with this bill or go on saying two words about the bill itself. I prefer to do the second, therefore, by entering into the essence of the debate, which - I said and repeat - was intended today's plenary session and by starting from the first part concerning this bill, the ratification and adaptation of Greek legislation to the Warsaw Convention of the Council of Europe on legalisation, detection, seizure and confiscation of proceeds from criminal activities and the financing of terrorism. There is also a great deal of reference in the procedural procedures for the rapid provision of evidence and for the transfer to the judicial authorities of any Member State conducting the investigation. The principle of direct recognition and enforcement of decisions of the Member State which issued the mandate shall be specified. The duration and fate of the frozen data shall be adjusted. The reasons for restricting the recognition or non-immediate execution of such an order shall be listed and, if there are claims for third-party compensation, the means of appeal which may be used by such persons and the civil rights of such persons shall be guaranteed in the event of damages. At the same time, it improves the legislative framework for taking and implementing the measures concerned at national level with a view to more effective identification of the organs and products of crime and also to exploring the possibilities for their freezing and confiscation, in particular insofar as they are linked to organised forms of criminal behaviour. The second part concerns the conditions for the placement of minors to an institution or a contractor family from and to Member States of the European Union. It is expressly defined as minors, but not as a measure taken in relation to the criminal offence of this minor, but as minors judged by the competent authority that continuing to live in the conditions already in existence will have adverse consequences for their overall development. On the other hand, their relocation to an institution or a donor family in another Member State of the European Union will have positive consequences. The central authority for receiving requests, the documents to be submitted and the bodies responsible for monitoring and handling them shall also be defined, and the conditions to be met by institutions, structures of child protection and fostering families to receive minors are specified. At the same time, it is stated that the placement of a minor into an institution or a contractor family in another Member State of the European Union requires a final judicial decision. That judgment shall be delivered following a request made to the only-member court by the judge of the judiciary of minors at the place of residence of the minor, who shall be heard in the proceedings of voluntary jurisdiction provided for in the Code of Civil Procedure. The third part incorporates in our national right the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of Justice and Home Affairs of 22 October 2013 on the right of access to a lawyer in criminal proceedings and a procedure for the execution of the European Arrest Warrant. This directive forms part of a package of measures to strengthen the procedural rights of suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings. In fact, it is about the right of the suspect to access a lawyer at the stage of preliminary examination, the protection of the confidentiality of the communication between the defendant and his lawyer, the right to information of a third party and the right to communicate with a third party in a criminal proceedings or the procedure for the execution of a European arrest warrant. The fourth and final part of today's current draft law concerns the adoption of minimum rules on rights, support and protection of victims of crime by incorporating European Union Directive 29/2012, replacing the 2001 Framework Decision of the European Parliament Justice and Home Affairs Council. This is to be added to a series of international legal instruments of the United Nations and the Council of Europe, which must also be taken into account, as a whole compose internationally accepted standards of protection for both victims of criminal acts in general and specific categories. The provisions of Part Four of the bill complement the relevant provisions and create a modern and effective institutional framework for the rights and protection of victims of crime. Self-sufficient offices for the protection of minors, "Children's Houses" are established, which are responsible for the individual assessment and assessment of the perceptiveness and mental status of minors, the provision of general support services to them, the assistance of all the competent authorities for their proper and child-friendly examination and for the formulation of appropriate conditions and spaces for the examination, as well as for the recording of the child's statement by electronic audiovisual means. The provisions of this part of the draft law therefore complement these recent regulations and create a modern and effective institutional framework for the rights, support and protection of victims of crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u291	So the circle of parliamentary representatives is over. I have been asked by some of the rapporteurs for a second. Do you want to precede, Minister, or do you want to take the floor later?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u292	Then.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u293	Mr. Panayotopoulos, two-three minutes is okay?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u294	If it's three, it's fine.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u295	Here, Mr. Panayotopoulos, you have the floor for two minutes with a tolerance of three.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u296	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, I would like to say that we will withdraw Amendment No 1069/92 for reasons of principle. After all, I don't think it was the Minister's intention to accept it. It is a conspiracy amendment. In any case, however, we state that it is withdrawn. The second thing I asked to speak on is that inevitably I must also address the issue of the day in question, which, moreover, dominated a large part of the procedure, namely the issue of the Minister of Defence's contact with the isovit. I have heard the previous colleague say that it is the right of the isovite that he is supposed to call a politician to discuss his case of his own treatment.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u297	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u298	Excuse me. You said that. That's a human right you said.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u299	It's a human right that any prisoner should call any person.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u300	It's a human right to call the politician. Very good. So I say that in this country, apart from the rights...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u301	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u302	Please, Mr. Comrade. Fifteen minutes you spoke. I'll talk only two. Apart from rights, there are obligations. We are talking about rights and we are downgrading the obligations, which are the other side of the coin. So there is a duty of institutional responsibility. I've heard the Minister say and wonder rhetorically if it's, in fact, a problem for that Minister to call the isovite and urge him to tell the truth. Yes, it is a problem, it is a big problem, Minister, because it is not any minister, any Stavros Kontonis, the Minister of Justice, any member of the executive, any Panagiotis Kammenos, the Minister of Defence, any member of the executive, any Nikolaos Panagiotopoulos, MP, rapporteur, member of the legislative authority, no one Costas Javara, a Member of the Parliamentary Representative, of the legislative authority, none of us is a job to be involved in the development of a criminal matter. If that is the case, Minister, you are responsible. Start making phone calls to convicted isovites, urging them to come and tell the truth. You don't. Why don't you do it? Because you are institutionally aware of your role and you know that this is not your job. As Mr Kammenos goes, he will soon become part of the substance of the case as a witness. In other words, with this demonstration of institutional irresponsibility. We do not of course care about any businesspeople, no enemy businessman, no other politician, no other factor in the case. We do not care, in the sense that for them justice, which is investigating and has already achieved results, will be ruled out. Of course, as far as the substance of the drug trafficking is concerned, I had said in a reversal of my speech, to strengthen what I said, that I wish the guilty were found and burned to fire. Now let the responsible Minister of Justice bring in a new order establishing a new penalty for convicted drug traffickers to fire and we will support it. But that's not the point. The point is that there is no Minister's right to take phones in prison and try to influence a criminal case in one direction or another, no matter what serious it is.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u303	Finish, Mr. Panayotopoulos. Will you say anything about the bill?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u304	I shall conclude, Madam President. That nature of the case has been demonstrated. We are asking everyone for institutional responsibility. We ask the relevant Minister, if anything, to remind the paramilitary minister that it is not his job. The case is being investigated. As to the part if he urged him to tell the truth or if he did something else, and that is an investigator. Because there is also the other view based on some acoustic material, which we do not yet know if it is genuine and authentic, but I imagine that this is also an investigator, which shows that it has not done exactly that, but has done something else: it has tried to put pressure on it so that evidence can be made to influence this case in particular. The involvement of the Prosecutor, who from Piraeus was found in Pylon to get a statement from this isovite - and it appears that there was also between it and the Minister of Contact and the port - is also to be investigated.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u305	Mr. Panayotopoulos, you said you'd talk for three minutes and go to five!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u306	I close, Madam President, and thank you for the tolerance, saying that we are currently keeping from what the Minister said that the famous telephone contact has actually existed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u307	Please, if you are all going to talk about Mr. Kammenos, we should probably omit it. Mrs. Kozobol, do you want to talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u308	Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u309	We'll go in a row. I thought they wanted two, but they all do. Here you go, Mrs. Kozobol.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u310	Thank you, Madam President. I'll be content to place myself on the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u311	I wish!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u312	I will praise the process because, with the legislative improvements, the remarks have been incorporated and the self-evident structure created, the House of the Child, has been emphasised in the services, but organically different. I am also going to praise all the procedure concerning the assumption of children from one European Union country to the other, that is, the procedure that has been set up and which was first introduced, which covers not a gap, but a black hole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u313	Mr. Papatheodorou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u314	Madam President, I shall also praise the process. This is because two things have been demonstrated today, which have so far been the case both for the government to be placed on the one side and for the questions we have asked. What, then, were these contacts, communications, for which we did not have a position by the Government, by the Minister for Justice? I will not praise her, however, because once again justice is caught in a political war, which concerns not only the positions within this House, but also the position of the Prime Minister: 'We will run out of all the means. On the limit," the Prime Minister said today. Of course! I don't care and we don't care about the Democratic Partnership if there's a need for the government to change a account. We do not care, too, whether there is a political aim in this whole process. We're interested in letting justice do its job. We're interested in leaving her out of the political war you want to do. We are also interested in specific answers to the questions we have asked so long. Today the Minister said there was communication between the Minister of National Defence...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u315	I said I didn't know if there was, and the process would show it. Why do you repeat something I didn't say?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u316	So I will tell you what I have heard, Minister. Calm down!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u317	You calm down with what you're saying!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u318	So I'm saying you said before...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u319	I said I don't know if it's wire or whether it's true or when it happened. Nobody knows that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u320	Yes, sir. So I repeat what you said and which can be verified by the Minutes. We don't have to have this controversy right now. So you said that we should say 'bravo' to the Minister if he had urged a prisoner to change his statement or make any statement or tell the truth.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u321	Madam President, there is finally a limit in Parliament! Did I say "change his statement"? What's he talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u322	What is in place, Minister, is that precisely this encouragement must not be made.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u323	Finish, Mr. Papatheodorou. Okay, you've handled the topic.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u324	It should not be for another reason, because it was not even disputed here that the Prosecutor of Piraeus, who intervened in the procedure, was responsible or not. You didn't deny it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u325	What can I deny, Madam President? What if she was in charge or not? What's he talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u326	Give answers to these issues, so that there is no other dark relationship between government politicians and detainees or prosecutors. That's the basic thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u327	Thank you, Mr. Papatheodorou.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u328	I shall conclude, Madam President, in thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u329	It's not possible!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u330	I conclude with what Mr Katsikis said earlier.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u331	All right, finish it!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u332	Obviously, your reaction, Mr Colleague, to what the President of the Democratic Association has said, but also to what you have said, shows something very simple: you have found yourself apologizing for the leader of your party. Since you were found to be apologise, it would be good to reproach the leader of your party and not to the Democratic Alliance, which so far has been asking you to reveal the truth. If there is an inducement, an inducement, or anything else, they are simply and clearly condemned outside the political and legal environment. That's the point.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u333	Here, Mr Aivatidis, you have the floor for two minutes. Please keep the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u334	Then I would also like the floor, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u335	Thank you, Madam President. As far as the debate is concerned, it is alleged that Mr Kammenos and some isovite who were initially sentenced to the case of drugs, on the one hand, there is the presumption of innocence, since the case has not yet been dealt with in the second degree. We have, however, been following for about twenty minutes the honourable Minister's ambitious effort to convince us, to convince the House, but also the Greek people, of the good intentions of Mr Panos Kammenos, if, of course, this conference took place. However, what I would like to stress is the attitude and behaviour of Mr Kaklamanis, who, from the President's position, has made an arbitrary assessment, saying that the Minister accepted as true this mentioned concept of a dialogue between the Minister, Mr Kammenos and the isovite. In any case, even if these talks or the one and only conciliation took place, this is an indirect interference in the future judicial conviction of the secondary court and we certainly denounce it. It is subject to investigation, if this call took place, what was the motive of Mr Panos Kammenos. I cannot believe that he had such a noble and romantic motive for discovering the truth and there was no secret personal controversy or possibly political pursuits. We see this as the Golden Dawn that we have fallen victim to political amoralism from the euphemism of the 'constitutional bow'. Let me remind you of the way in which he intervened in a judicial process to convict three Members of the Golden Dawn, the former Prime Minister, Antony Samaras. I repeat: in a sub-Government way it has indeed affected Justice. Therefore, we deliver those responsible for these political interventions to the Greek people's crisis. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u336	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u337	Mr. Katsiki, you have now spoken. You don't have the floor. The rapporteurs are now speaking.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u338	I have a right to dentistry. A minute, Madam President, to contradict what has been slanderously heard in here.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u339	It's okay. Now you're going to get hit again. That'll last a week. Mr. Saridis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u340	Madam President, nothing really. The fact is that the country is sinking and the wings are fighting like bad dogs. Clearly for the Central Association, a Minister has the right to speak on the phone with a convict, but from there and beyond what he says or urges him is an issue that is to be investigated. But we don't know. We are not sure what has been discussed. So there's a lot to be said without evidence. At the Zalogg's dance, in which the government first leads the country, we see opposition is followed. The Centro Association won't lead the country to this dance. He won't participate in this dance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u341	Thank you, too. Mr. Black, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u342	Thank you, Madam President. Because I spoke just before the Minister's first speech, I had not heard it. I should just like to put a few questions to the Minister, to which he may reply in his denunciation, when we heard him justify Mr Kammenos saying that there is no question if a Minister communicates with a convict and urges him to tell the truth. Let's take it that way. Minister, I have three questions: Firstly, if you knew that this was indeed the case, and if you had your approval. Secondly, if a minister communicates with a convict is a legitimate practice, as you say, and if there are other government ministers who communicate with the judges or convicts, because we have some other cases in this House. Thirdly, if you think that these practices create a sense of trust for the Greek citizen towards Greek justice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u343	The Minister has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u344	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, it seems to me that every time we have a bill debate and there are a few amendments, everyone blames the government for bringing in amendments. Of course the previous government had broken every record. We're bypassing this. Greece was born in January 2015 and Parliament has been operating since 2015! So let's override this until the last hour. But what makes me impression is that those who accuse the government of bringing amendments and diverting the debate from the bill are the same Members who, when they take the floor, do not refer to the bill at all, not even to the amendments, but to unrelated issues of topicality, because they think they have something to say anyway. Today, most of all, the majority referred to the issue of the Minister of Defence - I shall refer later to this story - and to the speech by the Prime Minister to the Minister's Council. Where's hypocrisy finally coming? Are your amendments'marran'? Here the two-thirds of your speech was on unrelated issues, not even on the issues of the amendments, most of which - look at the even greater interest - the majority of this House is voting for, not only the government majority, but a broader majority that recognises the need to come to a debate in plenary. That is the first thing I wanted to say about hypocrisy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u345	You set an example, Mr Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u346	You could have avoided that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u347	The second point I wish to make is this. Ladies and gentlemen, you have referred to the issues raised by the Prime Minister at the Ministerial Council. So I ask you, the MPs, this. Is it a bad thing that a decision by a European Union institution, such as the Eurogroup, is at last linked - and I imagine it will be confirmed by the summit - by the development clause? Wasn't that a request for debt repayment? Was it not a question of the whole political world, at least those who could understand what was going on and what position had PASOK and New Democracy led this country thirty years? Wasn't that a request we all said it was a fair request? Did we not mention all the wings that this was the case with Germany after World War II? Why is that not a good thing now that the Greek Government has achieved this? Somebody explain it to me. Why, gentlemen of the Central Left - which you have evolved not to say to the Central Right, but to alleviate to New Democracy - is this praised by the main representative of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament and you do not find a good word to say? Why? Nor is it a good thing that we now have a clear outline of exit from the memoranda and surveillance, as is a clean road map for debt regulation? But wasn't that what you said you wanted as a government? Why now that the government has done so, are you saying that nothing has happened and that it is unfairly celebrating? First of all, we have said that we are not celebrating. However, we must say that these are the achievements of this government and the negotiation that has bothered me. You are also referring to the surpluses. But do you remember what surpluses the previous PASOK and New Democracy had agreed? Why don't you say that with the agreement we have reached, we have saved the Greek people from 20 billion of taxes and reductions? And that's bad? Should we have taken what you were giving then and told us to take it, too, without taking a look? Is it bad to prove that this course of things also brings results? The interest rates of Greek bonds have been deviated immediately and there is a gradual decline. Isn't that for the benefit of the Greek people? Is that bad, too? So we are here in a situation that goes beyond every limit. What this government does and the most obviously positive, you come here to criticise them and not say a good reason, that the government has done so with difficulty, with hard work, could do better, etc. You could make a review there, but this levelling goes beyond every limit. Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that the opposition has entered a perverse post-hazardous situation that the second assessment will not be closed and that nothing has happened here, precisely because it is constantly disguised, and that is how it always ends in point zero. But what surprises me is Mr Theocharopoulos's reference - which is not now in the Chamber - in 2014. I'm really sorry because DIMAR in 2014 had left the Cooperation Government. He was invoked in this Chamber the New Democracy's claims of exit on the markets in 2014. But that's why DJMAR left the government! Did Mr. Theocharopoulos forget it, or did he consider that DIMAR's participation is in the peninsula on the side of the New Democracy? Mr. Theocharopoulos does not bear in mind that in 2014 Greece had come out on the markets, if you remember well, with a bond that we paid for! It was Mr. Samara's attempt to convince us that we're on the market! Did Mr. Theocharopoulos forget that? What can anyone say about the point where DMAR has arrived? What can anyone say? There are no words. You still don't know that you were out of the coup d'état in 2014? We're on 2017! Ladies and gentlemen, much has been said about the supposed talks of the Minister of Defence. In fact, while the debate had evolved completely smoothly from the rapporteurs of all the parties, the Vice-President of the New Democracy suddenly referred to this issue. First of all, I understand that the New Democracy is in complete confusion, because the Vice-President of the New Democracy had to come in order to raise this issue in the House, while several speakers had spoken and raised the issues, as they thought they were. But that's not all. The New Democracy has tabled a question by Mr Panayotopoulos in accordance with the procedure of parliamentary scrutiny, and I have said to the committee that the questions will be answered in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Rules of Procedure. After two-three days, Mr. Adonis Georgiadis again, what is he doing? He's asking a timely question! I'm glad you're here, Mr. Theocharopoulos. You would have heard that I reminded you that in 2014 DIMAR had left the government.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u348	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u349	I hope you take this into account.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u350	Of course, I'll answer you later.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u351	I wish. What, then, did Mr Adonis Georgiadis also submit, after two days of question by Mr Panagiotopoulos, a timely question?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u352	Another Minister in another capacity.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u353	It is clear that you do not agree on who you are asking a question and what procedure. But it's not that you don't agree. The point is, you understand that there is a great deal of point in defending business interests here. It's a big deal. To identify with those newspapers belonging to the interest circle of a particular businessman. Logically, there are people in you who realize that here there is a problem. I repeat, ladies and gentlemen, the very simple thing. We've got the post of a couple of dialogues. Do you know whether these dialogues have been constantly or are a stitching product or if there's still interference? Nobody knows. Do you know what happened and what time? Nobody knows. Is there an investigation? There's been an investigation. So why does this whole situation get up? Has justice acted by bias? I'm asking you! Has he acted diligently? Nowhere!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u354	We're asking for a search.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u355	Something that makes me impression, although I said it three times in my speech, is the following. If we take as a case of working that there was a Minister of Defence's conversation, you would be right to say that the Minister of National Defence took a prisoner's phone and urged him to do the legitimate thing. You'd have a place right. But this is not the case. What are you doing deliberately? You do it yourself and PASOK. You are getting out of the account that this prisoner has given an interview with a journalist who gives his consent to make it public. Is that what you're interested in? And he says a lot of interesting things. Watch out. I'm not telling the truth. Maybe she's also false. Watch out. It may also be false, which is why there is an investigation under way. So you will not choose from the sequence of events that suit you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u356	Are we leaving this in the band?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u357	The sequence of events is given and will be judged.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u358	Did I refer to speeches?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u359	Don't interrupt all the time. So we are telling you again that this case is being investigated at all levels of justice. All levels. I told you, because I missed this - Mr Georgiadis asked me, but I was interrupted by the President, because I had exceeded my time - that I have been informed by the Advocate-General, when the subject of legal assistance was raised, and I told you that the process of legal assistance has already been activated through the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, to cross-check this information - look, ladies and gentlemen - which the prisoner gave the prosecutor. What was to be done, honourable Members? Say we don't take them? Say we don't control them? Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, do not look where justice has done its duty.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u360	No, we're looking.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u361	You're looking.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u362	We're all looking for them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u363	Search whatever you want. I tell you not to spoil your sugar beet and not to sell in newspaper reports that belong to business interests and have every reason to do this. I tell you, for you to know, because I have been informed about this, that the trial that ended and is being held in prison by this particular person and others has also been appealed by the prosecutor of the Chair and will be tried. It may be that what the Advocate General says will be checked. I do not know the content and I cannot say any more. I heard that yesterday. All this is not accidental with the attack on the Minister of Defence today because I told you that the investigation is being conducted. This investigation has to do with the intervention of the financial police, as well as the financial prosecutor, and these things, that is, the control process, some are concerned. I told you in my first talk. If I was in the position of someone who is convinced of his innocence and who has not fallen into criminal acts, I would not have to activate my friendly press and say, "Look at that, look at Kammenos if he called." I'd wait for justice to shine the truth. But here, other conclusions come to light. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer to an amendment tabled by the Minister for Trade Affairs and an unjust criticism. I owe it to Mr Karathanasopoulos, who I said earlier to him that I will tell him in my dentistry. We have here a cost of 27 million, ladies and gentlemen, for the graduates, for the officers of the Merchant Navy for their first journey. Do you know very well that this is money going to these children, the young officers, who will be found to do their practice on a ship and to aid themselves and say that this money is a subsidy to shipowners? I would ask you very much not to miss certain things to whom they benefit. Only graduates of these schools benefit from their first trip, because you know very well that they found stunts and couldn't even do their practical exercise. Watch out, they'll do their practice, just like the prosecuting lawyer is doing his practice with a lawyer. The prosecuting lawyer doesn't have a payroll. I did my practice for eighteen months, and of course, I hadn't taken a wage because I did my practice. I chose a lawyer, I agreed, he had the kindness of a man, a noble lawyer in Zakynthos, etc. We don't get a paycheck. So here comes the state and makes an expense, and you say that this is a subsidy to shipowners? Ladies and gentlemen, I'm ending by saying...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u364	Minister, please conclude, because we're over time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u365	I shall conclude, Madam President. Mr. Mavroy, I don't think I need to answer your questions. I consider the answers to be self-evident. I would like to end by telling you that today we are voting on a bill which in many respects harmonises Greek law with European law in a positive direction. I would like to stress that in particular in the implementation of judicial decisions by one Member State of the Union in another, there were many difficulties in the past, because the State in which the execution was to be carried out was not in line with the procedural rules followed in the state that adopted the decision. In this way we have had judicial decisions that are normally recognised by everyone, but they can't be executed in another Member State of the Union. This legislation, therefore, comes to improve the common procedural rules and the common requirements that need to be laid down for a judicial decision. This problem that so far exists is solved. I think, ladies and gentlemen, that in the rest, as we discussed today in relation to the bill, the debate was very productive and fruitful. I would therefore urge you to vote in favour of this. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u366	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, nine students and students and two of their companions from the Hellenic American University. The House welcomes them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u367	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u368	Mr. Theocharopoulos, you agree that DIMAR had left in 2014. What else do you want to say?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u369	Madam President, I would like, please, to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u370	All right, you have the floor for a minute. What's this about?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u371	On personal grounds, Madam President, we do not have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u372	Yes, it's not the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u373	Minister, I really understand you today about the difficulty you have. They have you apologise for Mr. Kammenos.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u374	Thank you very much! What can I tell you?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u375	Don't get upset. You'll hear as much as you yell.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u376	I'm not upset. Not at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u377	They have you apologise for Mr. Kammenos...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u378	Don't spend your time on such things. Call your staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u379	Madam President, the Minister referred to my name four times.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u380	If we are now going to start about a chart, we will not be finished. We have a vote after that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u381	But do you see that, Madam President?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u382	Will you let me, Madam President, tell you?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u383	I'll leave you, but...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u384	Let me speak in the staffing process. He mentioned four times in my last name.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u385	Tell us the staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u386	Do you want me to explain and take the floor on staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u387	Yes, that's what the Rules of Procedure say, tell us what the staff are made up of.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u388	Let me explain why. Four times Mr. Kontonis referred to my name, namely Mr. Theocharopoulos, as he said attributes, that he did or said things or did not or did not do what he did or did not know about the past or for the moment.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u389	And you said you knew.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u390	I didn't say anything wrong. I didn't touch you, Mr. Theocharopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u391	So you knew?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u392	May I speak on personal grounds, Madam President? Now, seriously, will you fight the House to take the floor for two minutes on staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u393	No, Mr. Theocharopoulos, but tell me if you know that because he's bewildered you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u394	Please, Minister, I think I have the floor on staff. So I'll talk. I really understand why they made you apologize for Mr. Kammenos. They put you in here today to apologize for the nationalist right that is your co-pilot. You dare, Mr. Kontonis, to speak of me personally and of the Democratic Left, for example, while you are here today in the heart of giving cover to Mr. Kammenos. You dare talk about the Central Left and the Central Right at your location, while you are running with the ANELs and with your Ministry, Mr. Kontonis, you have the former President of the EEA - the Caramanic wing of your co-government - Mr. Papagelopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u395	Is that the staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u396	With all this, therefore, with your coup d'état both with the caramanic wing of the New Democracy and with Mr Kammenos and your support to Mr Kammenos, you dare talk about all these issues today! At the same time, you are referring to the past. Indeed, Mr Kontonis, and the Democratic Left participated in the 2012-2013 government, because elections were held twice and, together with PASOK, we did not let the country go bankrupt at that time, we decided not to plunder as you did then, but to give responsibility to the country. I would also like to say something on personal grounds, because the President wanted to hear it. Mr Contonis, I resigned in 2013, personally, and we assumed our responsibilities at that time on the Democratic Left for what was wrong. You right now, with what you do to the Greek people, sit in your chair, continue and you are attached to a chair of power. People can't handle this right now. And you dare talk and take off the "left" while everyone is well aware of what you are doing and what you have done today, giving cover to what your co-pilot, Mr. Kammenos, has done. At last there are limits, Mr Contonis, they see you, they hear you and, in any case, a little seriousness does not hurt.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u397	Mr. Theocharopoulos, finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u398	The left is not exercised by these policies. The Democratic Reconciliation will proceed determinedly on the reorganisation of the Central Left and will succeed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u399	Madam President, I ask for the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u400	You won't answer that, Mr. Contonis, now. Did Mr. Theocharopoulos tell you anything that bothered you? I don't think he said anything that bothered you. It doesn't make any sense now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u401	I just want a minute, Madam President. First of all, Mr Theocharopoulos, I really tell you with understanding, I understand you. You have been housed in a party and without this roof that offers you, you could not be here to tell us 'if we dare.' The Greek people have taken the course you have followed and followed it. So I want to tell you that if you resigned in 2013 - obviously you did so, well, as DMAR left the government - obviously because you understood that you were wrong, not because you went to save the country. I repeat, not because you went to save the country, but because you were wrong! Wrong confession is that. You left the coup d'état. What else do we want to hear? I want to tell you something else, Mr. Theocharopoulos. We dare, in fact, say these things and vote for what we are voting on, because we want the country not to fall on the rocks, where you, the PASOK, had thrown it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u402	Vote them!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u403	That's right! I say you, because now you don't exist, PASOK, and we understand the contracts and the notes you signed. You must say from now on that the PASOK has saved the country! Say it. The Greek people also listen to you and judge you. After all, you see the acceptance these wise men have!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u404	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle of legality, the articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights is adjourned and adjourned by the Greek legislation in the Warsaw Convention of 16 May 2005 on legalisation, detection, confiscation and confiscation of proceeds from criminal activities and the financing of terrorism, incorporation of A - D. 2003/577/JHA, A - D. 2005/212/JHA, A - D. 2006/783/JHA, as amended by the A - D. 2009/299/JHA and Directive 2014/42/EU, II) Conditions for the placement of minors in an institution or a donor family from and to Member States of the European Union pursuant to Article 56 of Regulation (EC) No 43/2003. Council Regulation (EC) No 2201/2003 of 27 November 2003 on jurisdiction and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in matrimonial matters and in matters of parental responsibility, repealing Regulation (EC) No 1347/2000, III) Incorporating Directive 2013/48/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 October 2013 on the right of access to a lawyer in criminal proceedings and a procedure for the implementation of the European arrest warrant, as well as on the right of information of a third person in the event of his or her freedom, and on the right to communicate with third persons and to consular authorities during the deprivation of freedom, IV) Incorporation of Directive 2012/29/EU on minimum standards for the rights, support and protection of victims of crime and replacing Council Framework Decision 2001/220/JHA and other provisions.’ Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u405	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u406	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u407	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u408	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u409	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u410	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u411	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u412	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u413	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights: ‘I) Fulfilment and adaptation of Greek legislation in the Warsaw Convention of 16 May 2005 on the legality, detection, confiscation and confiscation of proceeds from criminal activities and on the financing of terrorism, incorporation of A - D/577/JHA, A - D/212/JHA, A - D/C 2006/783/JHA, as amended by A - W 2009/299/JHA and Directive 2014/42/EU, II) Conditions for the placement of minors in an institution or a contracting family from and to Member States of the European Union pursuant to Article 56 of Regulation (EC) No 407/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council. Council Regulation (EC) No 2201/2003 of 27 November 2003 on jurisdiction and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in matrimonial matters and in matters of parental responsibility, repealing Regulation (EC) No 1347/2000, III) Incorporating Directive 2013/48/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 October 2013 on the right of access to a lawyer in criminal proceedings and a procedure for the implementation of the European arrest warrant, as well as on the right of information of a third person in the event of his or her freedom to be deprived and to communicate with third persons and consular authorities during the deprivation of freedom, IV) Incorporation of Directive 2012/29/EU on minimum standards for the rights, support and protection of victims of crime and replacing Council Framework Decision 2001/220/JHA and other provisions was accepted by a majority majority vote. We are entering the vote on the articles and amendments of the bill and they will be voted on separately. Does this House accept Rule 1 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u414	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u415	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u416	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u417	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u418	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u419	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u420	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u421	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u422	Article 1 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 2 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u423	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u424	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u425	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u426	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u427	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u428	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u429	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u430	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u431	Article 2 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 3 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u432	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u433	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u434	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u435	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u436	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u437	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u438	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u439	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u440	Article 3 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 4 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u441	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u442	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u443	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u444	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u445	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u446	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u447	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u448	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u449	Article 4 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 5 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u450	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u451	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u452	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u453	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u454	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u455	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u456	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u457	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u458	Article 5 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 6 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u459	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u460	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u461	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u462	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u463	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u464	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u465	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u466	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u467	Article 6 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 7 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u468	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u469	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u470	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u471	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u472	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u473	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u474	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u475	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u476	Article 7 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Article 8 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u477	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u478	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u479	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u480	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u481	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u482	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u483	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u484	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u485	Article 8 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 9 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u486	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u487	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u488	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u489	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u490	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u491	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u492	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u493	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u494	Article 9 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 10 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u495	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u496	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u497	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u498	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u499	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u500	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u501	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u502	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u503	Article 10 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 11 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u504	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u505	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u506	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u507	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u508	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u509	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u510	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u511	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u512	Article 11 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 12 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u513	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u514	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u515	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u516	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u517	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u518	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u519	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u520	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u521	Article 12 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 13 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u522	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u523	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u524	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u525	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u526	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u527	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u528	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u529	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u530	Article 13 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 14 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u531	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u532	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u533	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u534	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u535	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u536	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u537	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u538	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u539	Article 14 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 15 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u540	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u541	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u542	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u543	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u544	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u545	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u546	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u547	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u548	Article 15 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 16 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u549	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u550	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u551	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u552	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u553	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u554	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u555	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u556	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u557	Article 16 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 17 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u558	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u559	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u560	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u561	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u562	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u563	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u564	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u565	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u566	Article 17 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 18 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u567	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u568	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u569	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u570	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u571	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u572	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u573	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u574	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u575	Article 18 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 19 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u576	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u577	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u578	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u579	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u580	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u581	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u582	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u583	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u584	Article 19 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 20 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u585	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u586	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u587	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u588	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u589	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u590	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u591	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u592	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u593	Article 20 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 21 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u594	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u595	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u596	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u597	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u598	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u599	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u600	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u601	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u602	Article 21 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 22 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u603	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u604	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u605	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u606	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u607	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u608	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u609	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u610	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u611	Article 22 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 23 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u612	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u613	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u614	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u615	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u616	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u617	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u618	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u619	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u620	Article 23 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 24 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u621	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u622	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u623	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u624	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u625	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u626	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u627	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u628	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u629	Article 24 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 25 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u630	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u631	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u632	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u633	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u634	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u635	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u636	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u637	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u638	Article 25 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 26 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u639	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u640	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u641	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u642	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u643	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u644	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u645	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u646	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u647	Article 26 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 27 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u648	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u649	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u650	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u651	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u652	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u653	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u654	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u655	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u656	Article 27 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 28 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u657	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u658	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u659	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u660	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u661	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u662	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u663	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u664	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u665	Article 28 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 29 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u666	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u667	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u668	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u669	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u670	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u671	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u672	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u673	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u674	Article 29 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 30 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u675	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u676	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u677	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u678	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u679	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u680	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u681	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u682	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u683	Article 30 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 31 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u684	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u685	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u686	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u687	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u688	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u689	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u690	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u691	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u692	Article 31 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 32 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u693	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u694	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u695	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u696	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u697	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u698	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u699	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u700	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u701	Article 32 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 33 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u702	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u703	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u704	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u705	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u706	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u707	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u708	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u709	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u710	Article 33 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 34 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u711	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u712	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u713	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u714	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u715	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u716	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u717	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u718	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u719	Article 34 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 35 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u720	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u721	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u722	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u723	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u724	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u725	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u726	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u727	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u728	Article 35 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 36 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u729	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u730	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u731	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u732	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u733	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u734	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u735	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u736	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u737	Article 36 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 37 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u738	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u739	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u740	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u741	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u742	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u743	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u744	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u745	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u746	Article 37 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 38 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u747	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u748	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u749	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u750	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u751	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u752	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u753	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u754	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u755	Article 38 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 39 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u756	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u757	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u758	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u759	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u760	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u761	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u762	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u763	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u764	Article 39 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 40 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u765	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u766	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u767	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u768	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u769	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u770	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u771	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u772	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u773	Article 40 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 41 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u774	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u775	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u776	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u777	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u778	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u779	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u780	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u781	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u782	Article 41 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 42 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u783	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u784	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u785	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u786	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u787	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u788	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u789	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u790	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u791	Article 42 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 43 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u792	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u793	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u794	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u795	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u796	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u797	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u798	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u799	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u800	Article 43 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 44 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u801	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u802	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u803	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u804	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u805	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u806	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u807	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u808	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u809	Article 44 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 45 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u810	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u811	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u812	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u813	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u814	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u815	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u816	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u817	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u818	Article 45 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 46 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u819	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u820	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u821	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u822	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u823	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u824	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u825	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u826	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u827	Article 46 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 47 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u828	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u829	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u830	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u831	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u832	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u833	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u834	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u835	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u836	Article 47 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 48 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u837	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u838	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u839	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u840	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u841	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u842	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u843	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u844	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u845	Article 48 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Does this House accept Rule 49 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u846	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u847	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u848	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u849	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u850	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u851	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u852	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u853	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u854	Article 49 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 50 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u855	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u856	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u857	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u858	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u859	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u860	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u861	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u862	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u863	Article 50 has therefore been accepted as a majority. Will Rule 51 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u864	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u865	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u866	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u867	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u868	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u869	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u870	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u871	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u872	Article 51 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 52 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u873	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u874	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u875	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u876	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u877	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u878	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u879	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u880	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u881	Article 52 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 53 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u882	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u883	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u884	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u885	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u886	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u887	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u888	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u889	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u890	Article 53 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 54 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u891	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u892	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u893	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u894	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u895	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u896	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u897	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u898	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u899	Article 54 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 55 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u900	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u901	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u902	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u903	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u904	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u905	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u906	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u907	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u908	Article 55 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 56 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u909	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u910	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u911	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u912	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u913	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u914	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u915	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u916	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u917	Article 56 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 57 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u918	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u919	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u920	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u921	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u922	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u923	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u924	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u925	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u926	Article 57 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 58 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u927	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u928	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u929	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u930	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u931	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u932	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u933	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u934	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u935	Article 58 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 59 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u936	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u937	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u938	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u939	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u940	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u941	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u942	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u943	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u944	Article 59 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 60 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u945	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u946	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u947	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u948	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u949	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u950	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u951	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u952	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u953	Article 60 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 61 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u954	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u955	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u956	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u957	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u958	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u959	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u960	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u961	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u962	Article 61 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 62 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u963	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u964	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u965	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u966	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u967	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u968	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u969	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u970	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u971	Article 62 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 63 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u972	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u973	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u974	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u975	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u976	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u977	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u978	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u979	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u980	Article 63 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 64 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u981	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u982	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u983	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u984	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u985	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u986	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u987	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u988	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u989	Article 64 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 65 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u990	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u991	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u992	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u993	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u994	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u995	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u996	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u997	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u998	Article 65 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 66 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u999	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1000	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1001	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1002	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1003	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1004	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1005	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1006	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1007	Article 66 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 67 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1008	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1009	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1010	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1011	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1012	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1013	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1014	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1015	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1016	Article 67 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 68 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1017	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1018	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1019	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1020	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1021	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1022	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1023	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1024	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1025	Article 68 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 69 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1026	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1027	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1028	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1029	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1030	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1031	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1032	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1033	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1034	Article 69 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 70 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1035	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1036	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1037	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1038	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1039	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1040	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1041	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1042	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1043	Article 70 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 71 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1044	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1045	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1046	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1047	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1048	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1049	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1050	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1051	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1052	Article 71 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 72 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1053	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1054	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1055	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1056	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1057	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1058	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1059	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1060	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1061	Article 72 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 73 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1062	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1063	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1064	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1065	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1066	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1067	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1068	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1069	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1070	Article 73 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 74 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1071	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1072	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1073	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1074	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1075	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1076	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1077	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1078	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1079	Article 74 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 75 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1080	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1081	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1082	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1083	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1084	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1085	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1086	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1087	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1088	Article 75 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 76 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1089	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1090	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1091	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1092	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1093	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1094	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1095	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1096	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1097	Article 76 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 77 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1098	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1099	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1100	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1101	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1102	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1103	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1104	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1105	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1106	Article 77 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 78 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1107	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1108	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1109	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1110	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1111	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1112	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1113	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1114	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1115	Article 78 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 79 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1116	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1117	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1118	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1119	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1120	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1121	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1122	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1123	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1124	Article 79 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 80 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1125	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1126	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1127	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1128	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1129	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1130	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1131	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1132	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1133	Article 80 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 81 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1134	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1135	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1136	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1137	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1138	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1139	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1140	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1141	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1142	Article 81 was therefore accepted as majority. Will Rule 82 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1143	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1144	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1145	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1146	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1147	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1148	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1149	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1150	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1151	Article 82 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does the House accept the amendment by a general number 1066 and a special number 89, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1152	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1153	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1154	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1155	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1156	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1157	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1158	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1159	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1160	The amendment under general number 1066 and a special 89 were therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number of 1068 and a special number of 91?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1161	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1162	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1163	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1164	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1165	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1166	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1167	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1168	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1169	Therefore, the amendment under a general number of 1068 and a special 91 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same articles. Does this House accept the amendment with a general number of 1072 and a special number of 95 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1170	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1171	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1172	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1173	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1174	Here you go. Here we want to state that, if it were only the EKT issue, we would be voting in favour of it. But because there is another matter, we will vote 'PAON'.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1175	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1176	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1177	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1178	Therefore, the amendment under a general number of 1072 and a special 95 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House accept the amendment by a general number 1073 and a special number 96, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1179	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1180	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1181	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1182	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1183	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1184	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1185	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1186	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1187	Therefore, the amendment under general number 1073 and special 96, as amended by the Minister, was accepted by a majority vote and is part of the bill as the same article. Does this House accept the amendment with a general number of 1070 and a special number 93 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1188	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1189	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1190	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1191	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1192	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1193	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1194	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1195	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1196	Therefore, the amendment of a general number 1070 and a specialist of 93 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. We shall now proceed to the vote of the President-in-Office. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1197	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1198	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1199	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1200	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1201	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1202	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1203	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1204	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1205	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights: ‘I) Fulfilment and adaptation of Greek legislation in the Warsaw Convention of 16 May 2005 on the legality, detection, confiscation and confiscation of proceeds from criminal activities and on the financing of terrorism, incorporation of A - D/577/JHA, A - D/212/JHA, A - D/C 2006/783/JHA, as amended by A - W 2009/299/JHA and Directive 2014/42/EU, II) Conditions for the placement of minors in an institution or a contracting family from and to Member States of the European Union pursuant to Article 56 of Regulation (EC) No 407/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council. Council Regulation (EC) No 2201/2003 of 27 November 2003 on jurisdiction and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in matrimonial matters and in matters of parental responsibility, repealing Regulation (EC) No 1347/2000, III) Incorporating Directive 2013/48/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 October 2013 on the right of access to a lawyer in criminal proceedings and a procedure for the implementation of the European arrest warrant, as well as on the right of information of a third person in the event of his or her freedom and on the right of communication with third persons and with consular authorities during the deprivation of freedom, IV) Incorporation of Directive 2012/29/EU into the minimum standards relating to the rights, support and protection of victims of crime and replacing Council Framework Decision 2001/220/JHA and other provisions was accepted in principle, on articles and amendments. Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on to the vote of the bill and all of it. Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1206	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1207	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1208	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1209	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1210	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1211	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1212	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1213	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1214	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights: ‘I) Fulfilment and adaptation of Greek legislation in the Warsaw Convention of 16 May 2005 on the legality, detection, confiscation and confiscation of proceeds from criminal activities and on the financing of terrorism, incorporation of A - D/577/JHA, A - D/212/JHA, A - D/C 2006/783/JHA, as amended by A - W 2009/299/JHA, and Directive 2014/42/EU, II) Conditions for the placement of minors in an institution or a contractor from and to Member States of the European Union under Article 56 of Regulation (EC) No 207/2003. Council Regulation (EC) No 2201/2003 of 27 November 2003 on jurisdiction and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in matrimonial matters and in matters of parental responsibility, repealing Regulation (EC) No 1347/2000, III) Incorporating Directive 2013/48/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 October 2013 on the right of access to a lawyer in criminal proceedings and a procedure for the implementation of the European arrest warrant, as well as on the right of information of a third person in the event of his or her freedom of communication with third persons and with consular authorities in the course of deprivation of freedom, IV) Incorporation of Directive 2012/29/EU into the minimum standards relating to the rights, support and protection of victims of crime and replacing Council Decision 2001/220/JHA and other provisions was accepted by a majority, in the context of the principle and of the whole and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1215	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1216	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-21-S1-commons.u1217	With the consent of the House at 16.58 the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Thursday 22 June 2017 at 9.30 p.m., on the subject of Parliament's work: a) a) a debate on topical questions; b) Parliament's decisions: a discussion and a vote, in accordance with Rule 76 of the Constitution and Rule 118 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, on the proposal of the President of the Parliament: "To amend the Rules of Procedure of Parliament - Part Part Parliament (List 106/A'/24.6.1987) and Part II (List 51/A'/10.4.1997), as in force, in accordance with the specific agenda distributed.
