ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 23/10/2017, the minutes of its PRACTICAL meeting, Thursday 23 February 2017, with regard to the vote on the entire draft law: ‘Supplementary measures for the implementation of the Rules of Procedure (EU, EURATOM) 1141/2014 on European political parties and institutions, measures to accelerate the government's work of the Ministry of Interior and other provisions’.]] We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS We begin with the No 510/20/21-2-2017 topical question by the President of the Group of the European Parliament, Mr Leventis, to the Prime Minister, on the subject: 'Question on the Eurogroup'. The Prime Minister will answer the above-mentioned question in accordance with Rule 129(2) and (3) and Rule 132(1) of the Rules of Procedure. The procedure is known. Typically, for two minutes the President of the Central Association Parliamentary Group has the floor, then the Prime Minister for his prototype for six minutes, then the President of the Central Association Parliamentary Group for four minutes and the Prime Minister closes second for three minutes. These times, to the extent that, at the level of the parties' Heads of State or Government, the debate in question is being discussed in a flexible manner by the Bureau, as is the previous Fridays, so as to have a comfortable debate. Mr. Leventis, you have the floor for your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u2	Good morning to the Prime Minister, the ladies and gentlemen, and to the ladies and gentlemen of the House. When Mr Katrugalos visited me in my office to operate the draft law on insurance, I found that it was not insurance, but secondly tax, because he had the most successful citizens, that is, those who have the biggest cigarettes, to pay the premiums for the weak, that is, those who were at the lowest. I stressed that Mr Katrugalos was unbearable for the free professionals, and that sooner or later this law would have to change from the point of view. So where I return, particularly throughout the countryside, this is a matter for me, that this burden is unstable and that it has led many to close their blocks and to declare inertial work. The result will be a reduction in the revenues of the insurance funds and a further deterioration in the problem. It's a law, which from the outset seemed to be unable to survive. Now, of course, a number of new professionals come out and say they give less. Okay, it's coming out that they give less, but we can't have two taxes in Greece for some. Two taxes are essentially. The philosophy of the law is in the wrong direction. After all, for taxation, there is the possibility of operating on income criteria and introducing the burdens of citizens into the tax bill, rather than doing for every sector that is slowing down another bill, having to pay themselves. It's not a solution, because everyone who produces this place will leave. I think there must be a correction on this. On pensions, I know that the IMF is asking for the maximum pension to be EUR 1,200. And I'm afraid the government hides the amount that the IMF wants. The government is talking about the possibility of cutting the personal dispute. But in the bill you promised a personal difference. Why did you promise, and now you get it back? So it's pension in the air, because you promised something that you're forced by de facto to get it back. As far as the subject of the tax is concerned, we have no formal agenda for changes to be taken or measures to be taken. Journalistic discussions take place. The government does not clearly say what it is asked of us, the rest of the parties, to discuss journalistic information. On the issue of tax relief, the axe is towards low incomes, because when you lower tax, you have dozens - not to say hundreds - of thousands of people in scales such as that in which they pay tax, while so far they have not paid, or who pay more tax than they have paid. It is, then, the fall of duty-free a slap in the very low incomes. The view that there will be countermeasures that will balance these burdens is not a guarantee, because you say that someone has no home to reduce HNVIA, because I hear something about HNVIA as well, that it can be reduced. So if the tax-free limit comes down, he'll pay tax. Where's he going to get it from? What if VAT is reduced by one unit, in this way will it expect, by buying items, goods, to level such an axe, which is one more wage for one that takes 700 or 800 euros? It's a payroll more. We've cut him two payrolls of gifts, and we're going and we're cutting him one more payroll with the fall of duty. In addition, Prime Minister, I do not understand what the circles are saying - because it is whispering, the government has officially said nothing - that, for the tough measures taken, there will be other beneficial measures to compensate for them. What's that? So we're taking 10 drachmas and then we're turning another 10 and then zero? Then why do we take them 10:00? I don't get it. If it is our intention to ensure a surplus of -3.5%, even promised - to take more money and then come by law to return them, what kind of alchemy is it, what kind of lumping is it? And what effect will it bring to the state vis-à-vis foreigners in particular, but also against Greeks, against our intelligence? It is a global phenomenon to raise such a topic, "I get you some money, but don't worry, I give you back". And there comes yesterday, Mr Chakalotos - I don't know if Mr Chakalotos is here yesterday, I sat next to him, but for tactics I did not talk to him, I thought today we would discuss this issue - and he says, 'Others will lose, others will win'. What about the losers? And now the following limits are being lost. If you get him one more salary from the fall of the tax, how will you give it back to him? He doesn't have a home. A large number of people have no residence, to pay HISPIA, to reduce to what HISPIA is doing and to earn something. Where's he going to get back from? What's going to get back? He won't get anything back. In addition, your ministers, Prime Minister, said it was illegal to commit subsequent years and subsequent governments. I have heard you many times in discussions on the TVs you said, "We do not accept any further measures or 1 euro, because it is illegal, it is unconstitutional." You will tell me about constitutionality or unconstitutionality not to speak, because after 2009 I do not think it will be done in Greece and nothing constitutional. Neither the cutters are constitutional nor the supercutters are constitutional nor the hypertamia are constitutional. Let's explain. So it doesn't bother us to have another unconstitutional thing. The Constitution has made it a rug that we trample everything we want. I did not see the constitution being respected in this Chamber either. There is no constitutional court to intervene. So the violation of the Constitution is free in Greece, ladies and gentlemen, and let us say the truth, even in such a debate under such a crisis and under the burden of demanding new measures. To go back to the previous one. I ask a question: What kind of philosophy is this? "We're getting money, but don't worry, we're going to turn the money"? I've never heard of that. It's a global phenomenon. I also monitor the tax system in other countries and there are no such things. Obviously, they are reassurances to you Members to vote. But Members of a party must vote on what the party says. Isn't that right? Otherwise, they must resign and go home. That's my opinion. A Member who disagrees, unless he comes to overthrow the government, delivers the seat - that is what morality says - and the concussions are coming to bear on his responsibilities. That, I repeat, says moral. For the polls, I have asked, Prime Minister, that there should be an independent measuring authority, because everyone gets what they want. I have told you, for example, that the referendum has all fallen outside. I was in America. One survey - 'EUROBRIDGE' - gave SYRIZA 5.5 points of lead, the other survey - 'OPINION' - gave 12.5 points to Mr Mitsotakis. And strangers laughed. So there's no way anyone can get what they want. Before the result of a measurement is made public, there must be a principle, delivered either by the number of telephones interviewed or by the polls, the voters, the ballots and the analyses, so that we can know whether the result is timely. Otherwise, everyone can make a survey of each other's precedent. And what's that? It is used as a way of manipulating society. Your term of office will pass, Mr. Tsipras, and we will not heal the field of polling, so everyone can do whatever they want in this place. Unless you have the old idea of PASOK, it may not be the opinion polls that will be of any benefit to you now, but it is better to stay this chaos, because the time will come when the other government will be ruined and you will be the ones who benefit from the measurements. There's that thought. The bipartisanism in the last fifty years in Greece thus worked: "Let them rule. Where are they going? They'll be worn out. We will come." The perceptions of the mature fruit. But this sector will be just as morbid as corruption and complexity. You know, it is very important, because the leader of a party that has forty years been in Parliament because of the logic of the lost vote. Where I was going, I was told "good things to you, but since the party doesn't come in, why should we spend our vote? We give it where it'll catch a place." So we arrived in January 2015 when the Centroon Association took 1.8% from Greece and 5.5% from Thessaloniki and even the local popular companies in Thessaloniki had not located this 5.5%, but 1.8% from Greece. They put the Karajafaris who got caught and something, and they gave us zero. So those who gave 1.8% in January 2015 were heroes, because they gave it, knowing we won't get anything. It's a big deal, and it's an opportunity for a Prime Minister who wants to make efforts...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u3	Mr President, you have your second language to complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u4	I also want you to know that there is concern over all of this. They're asking me if the evaluations will be closed. There's an irritation. Why did you take so much time? Besides, we're not winning anything. They're coming on Tuesday, they're gonna say what they have to say, we're gonna take it all, and we're just gonna...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u5	It's your view.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u6	Do you doubt, Mr. Panjah, that we're going to accept everything? My view, we'll see, short psalm. You will say, of course, that countermeasures will be taken, the known countermeasure grievance, but the people will pay the tough measures.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u7	Are you going to vote for the countermeasures?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u8	Mr. Balaura, don't go that far, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u9	Leave the countermeasures. First you vote for the countermeasures and then the measures? It's a little oximo. Are we gonna start backwards? [[Applause from the centre of the Union of Centres]] There are two Turks who came and seek asylum. You're going to tell me, what does this have to do with the Eurogroup question? But I'm telling you what questions are going on where I'm going back into the country? Where do I go, everyone says "were you afraid of a hot episode"? Shouldn't we talk to you in this Chamber? There are two Turks who came in that are time bombs. They say they're part of the team that went to murder Erdogan. It is therefore a very serious matter. It is a huge matter. They were gathered, he says, to the SYRIZA MPs, so there wouldn't be any equipment. I have no ideological connection with Mr. Kammenos, but does the Armed Forces equipment find us opposing? Taking airplanes equivalent to the Turks can be burdensome financially at the time we are in, but is it bad? Are we in favour of the armoury of the Turks, of playing with fire and of safeness? I didn't like being gathered by MPs in order not to be armoured. These MPs, what are they? They're willing to hand over the islands? Is it in favour of “eat, drink and rejoice and let your country be in danger”? I have a complaint. Your MPs are present, SYRIZA, who say they are against the euro. One said he was in favour of Venezuela, etc. What are these things? In other words, Members of the Greek Parliament, who are supposed to support a government that says it is fighting for the euro, speak at the same time with a café language and say "at any time if they don't like us, we go to Venezuela, etc.''.'. Are these things that inspire trust in the Greek people? If it is to build trust by this way, by your hello, with joy! I will tell you why I believe, because I have been recommended and continue to recommend universal government. I'll tell you why I suggest it. Because Greece needs a European government that believes in Europe, we do not need a government with which to threaten foreigners at all times. You all know that if we did the reforms in 2009, we would have left the memorials as early as 2011, but Giorgos Papandreou's tsampouches were talking about money, Samaras' tsampouches with the Zapeia, your tsampouches with the "slit memorials", were seven years behind the reforms. Foreigners say it's not a debt issue. The debt will be seen. It's a matter of reforms. Are all strangers crazy? Are all those people who say we haven't reformed insane? Meanwhile, in Greece, there is a confusion about what reforms are and what measures are. Putting tax is measures - that is what we need to explain to the world - but opening up the professions, creating a tax evasion system, making public assessments to reduce the dead burden on public wages for those who are late are reform. To merge the three pensions into one is reform. Cutting off the wealthy pensions, as they did in Australia or Canada, is a reform. The Greeks, especially the ordinary people, have confused what is a measure and what is reform, because you do not make it clear and those who go out on television and the government always speaks in ambiguity. Ladies and gentlemen, we must make it clear to the citizens and admit that we did not do the reforms and that is why we are in this situation. We're the only country we didn't leave the memoirs. We are the only country to continue this economic curse, from which the country is tormented. Unless we're used to it now, we're used to it with the memorials and we'll be sad if we go out, because sometimes that's what I see. We don't make it clear what reform is and we keep saying that the foreigners came to take the oil away from us, the foreigners came to take the property, etc. So, we have this big fortune that strangers came to take us? Will the problem be solved by Germany, the Netherlands, Belgium, for example, if they take our own property?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u10	Please, Mr President, conclude.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u11	To create a picture that the predators have come to us is good for us here, because they acquit to George Papandreou, Karamanlis, Mitsotakis, Tsipras for the mistakes that have happened, the local political class is acquitted and the responsibilities go out. But we know inside that it's a hypocrisy. Prime Minister, you will, of course, respond in the way you want, but tell us in particular what kind of policy it is that we will take on the one hand, and on the other hand, we will say: 'Don't worry, we will give it back to you'. Truly, because this is a global phenomenon, say whether you have such a finding, if you have invented such an economic miracle, because you will get copyright from other countries too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u12	Mr President, you have extended too much, but you have also received material from your speech. You opened the agenda very much. Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras has the floor for his prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to thank the President of the Central Group's parliamentary group for the question and for the opportunity that gives me to place myself and to inform the House after the very important development we had last Monday in the Eurogroup on this first agreement. I would like to clarify a few things and say to Mr Leventis that I thank him because he was the only one who bothered to ask me a question. Other colleagues did not consider it appropriate to take advantage of the Prime Minister's time, because they believe it is preferable to hide behind monologues and not from the live one, the real dialogue within Parliament. On this occasion, then, I would like to reiterate that I will be here for the parties' leaders every Friday, as long as they ask me. I'll be here to answer easy and difficult questions, easy and hard times. You might blame me for a lot, but not for hiding. Others have been hiding these days and it seems also from the seat in Parliament today what is loaded and what is empty. Mr President, I will have the opportunity to answer all your questions on the substance. I want introductory terms to say that you're right. It is not customary what was decided at the outset last week, because we had become accustomed to this day in Greece, but elsewhere, where the logic of the International Monetary Fund exists, namely the extreme neoliberal policies, only to take, not to take and give. The day before yesterday, something that has an originality was decided. In this part, too, I think it is an excellent success for the negotiating group and I will explain why. But let me give you a complete briefing. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greek Government in recent months, among other things, has been making a very great effort on two parallel fronts. On the one hand, it tries to achieve the objectives of the current programme and, on the other, to successfully complete and without additional burdens for the Greek society, without additional austerity, the negotiation for the second evaluation. I mean, this work that's done is fruitful. I will begin with the first part, the attempt to achieve the objectives of the programme and achieve the objectives of the programme. I think it is now acceptable and is acceptable to all of us, both from the institutions involved in the Greek programme, but also from the most important international organisations, that budgetary objectives are overcompensated and that the economy is recovering steadily. I would remind you of the catastrophic forecasts, the Cassandrian forecasts last year after the end of the first assessment, when the infamous financial corrigendum, the cut-off, had been established. They were all quick to anticipate that there is no possibility of catching these goals, so the so-called cutter will be implemented and cut off as well as pensions and incomes and everything. I still remember last summer's articles - false all - that we have fallen out of revenue, that we have already been destroyed and that, as a result, the cut will be activated. Ultimately, not only the cutter was activated, but the donor was activated, we gave it. We have given a single-tier third pension, EUR 620 million, to the low pensioners, despite the objections and some of the creditors, not all, but also the non-consent here in Parliament, the objection to Officerial Opposition with the incomprehensible attitude of abstention vote - I think it was'represent', which is essentially the same - since it did not take a position, it did not approve of a measure, for the first time in seven years, providing low-pensions. So the Cassandras were disproved. And finally, while they told us that we will not catch the target of 0.5% surplus in 2016, the results of the over-performance of the economy show that we will exceed 2% of the surplus in 2016, not 0.5%. At the same time, while forecasts of economic recovery in 2016 were forecasts for a recession of 0.3% with 0.4%, ultimately the figures of the Commission, Eurostat show that we had growth in 2016, we returned to a positive view, at a positive growth rate of 0.3%, i.e. 0.6% with 0.7% above forecasts. You know, what some in this Chamber are fine letters is the basis on which the conditions are formulated to successfully close and without the acceptance of irrational requirements the second assessment. I now come to the second part - and that is the main issue of the question tabled today - what happened the day before yesterday, what was decided the day before yesterday. In the Eurogroup of 20 February, therefore, a decisive step was taken towards the completion of the second evaluation. And this step is, in principle, an agreement between the Greek Government and the heads of institutions. The basic principles on which the evaluation agreement is to be initiated were therefore agreed, which will of course end after the technical details have been negotiated, which will return to Athens immediately after the clean Monday. So let's see what we have in our hands today. Firstly, the institutions are back next week to complete the technical agreement immediately. Secondly, since the start of the negotiations, the Greek Government has insisted that the Greek economy's course not only does not justify new austerity measures, but rather that such a move would constitute a barrier to the country's development potential, which, as I said before, would also constitute a barrier to the assessment of all the institutions. This position of the Greek Government was expressed by me and by the Minister of Finance and by the entire government in all ways and in all tones, and it was that we would not accept a single euro extra austerity. When I said this in an interview with me in a daily newspaper, you sent me to Parliament and to the media. You called me a liar, and the softest of the critics I heard was that it was a negotiating tactic and I didn't mean it. This position, therefore, for not a single euro extra austerity in the already convicted Greek society and economy has been respected. And he became respected by everyone. They respected the numbers, the performance of the Greek economy. But be careful! These performances, in fact, are the result of the sacrifices of Greek citizens. These are the sacrifices of the Greek people. That's what they respected! Given that, therefore, I think that last Monday there has been a significant shift of all sides in the direction, if you prefer, of overcoming austerity and concentration - because there will focus the negotiations - on what some call a 'change in the mix of policy' that Greece needs to follow and not on the extra burden. If you ask me, Mr Leventis, if I personally agree with my Government in the necessity of changing the policy mix, I will tell you no. But when you go to a negotiation, it's obvious that you're going to win, but you're going to have to make some retreat. However, the question, Mr Leventis, is that so far governments have managed very critical negotiations that burdened the Greek people with an austerity that removed 25% of national wealth from 2010 to 2015, so that we always lose and never win. And today I am convinced that we have reached an honest compromise. It was agreed for the first time after seven years - and this is crucial - to leave behind the principle of lasting austerity and redefinite priorities on the basis of more policy promotion that will strengthen the established growth trend of the Greek economy. These are policies that need to strengthen - and this is the great effort we will make at negotiating level in the next period - to produce new wealth, investment, work. This shift also brings us to the third important given that I wanted to refer to. This is a given feature of what was agreed in the Eurogroup, that there is no longer the senseless requirement - which is not last, it is a requirement on the table since Christmas in '15, and I shall refer to it a little - for additional measures of austerity of 2% of GDP, 3.6 billion on the basis of the matching of current GDP, 4.5 billion on the basis of possibly matching GDP in 2019, and even after the end of the programme. On the contrary, the framework in which we are now discussing is that any reforms that are agreed will be implemented from 1-1-2019 provided that they have a zero budgetary impact. What does that mean, though. This means, ladies and gentlemen, that for every euro possible burden on the structural reforms proposed by our creditors, our creditors, and to which the International Monetary Fund will insist, and to which I hope that we are not very happy about them, there will also be a corresponding relief from the reforms that we are proposing. At this point I would like to stand a little further, because there are a number of those who, for reasons of political feasibility, do not understand that and do not understand the agreement. So we have heard from both New Democracy and journalistic lips say that any reductions will be subject to the fulfilment of the budgetary objectives. In fact, some people went further and said that what we agreed - he says - after questioning that there is even an agreement, after continuing on the same violin as to whether the evaluation will be closed...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u14	Where's the deal?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u15	Would you like to speak, Mr. Tragakis? Take the floor. I'm here. Your Chief, where is he coming to ask me a question?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u16	Ask the President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u17	Where is he? Come and ask me. I'm here to answer you. Your discourse and the strategy deficit are evident. Don't interrupt me, sit down and listen. Have a seat and listen to it all.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u18	Where's the Minister of Finance?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u19	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u20	Don't expose yourself. The Prime Minister's time is open for Mr. Mitsotakis too. I'll be here waiting for him as many questions as he wants to ask. I'm here to answer him. He's been hiding in the last few days. I don't know why.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u21	Last week he wasn't here, Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u22	I hope he'll show up and speak. To tell his opinion.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u23	Why do you not apply Article 142a?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u24	I shall continue, Mr President, with your permission and despite the opposite voices, I shall continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u25	Please, go on. Be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u26	I say, then, that there are a lot of those who do not understand the agreement. We have heard them say that we have taken measures and as far as positive ones are concerned they will simply promises that will never be implemented. Because, they say, there was a wording from the Eurogroup leader who was talking about their implementation if there is a financial area. So I want to explain what that means. I understand, of course, that, with the justification of the technical debate, there are many who are trying to blur water. But listen to what the agreement is in principle, because the Greek people must be informed in particular. I am sure you all understand what the agreement is, but the Greek people must be informed. So both the structural reform measures proposed by the institutions and the measures to alleviate structural reforms proposed by the Greek Government will be voted on at the same time in the Greek Parliament and none of these measures will be heresy. After all, we repeat something that many of us have stressed, that there is no legal and institutional framework based on the Greek Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, to be passed in the Greek Parliament on here. These measures, therefore, will enter into force on 1 January 2019, which is, moreover, common in parliamentary practice, to adopt measures to which their implementation, their entry into force will start later. I would like to say something else. He explained yesterday to the House the Minister of Finance, where the key lies, where the secret lies. The secret lies in the words of Commissioner Moscovisi, who at Monday's press conference said that measures will have nets in English, that is, clean, zero, zero, net financial effect. I mean, it's gonna be zero-charge measures. And I will be asked by a good-faithed and not bad faith: “Why, then, are some people saying that positive measures will only be implemented if there is the necessary financial space in 2019? Do they mean she will be here?’ The answer here is unequivocal: No, there is no cult, and I am explaining in detail, because the details usually say that the devil is hiding. The financial area we are talking about is forecasts rather than results. At the moment the Commission, through Eurostat, predicts that the current situation - with the measures that have been voted on both in terms of economic progress and forecasts of growth rates for 2017 and 2018 - will be the primary surplus of 2018 that is being carried over and 2019 will be 3.5% of GDP. Therefore, any additional burden measure adopted with effect from 1 January 2019 shall, as regards the forecasts for the corresponding financial relief. Therefore, if there are, for example, 1% of GDP burdens in 2019, then a 1% of GDP budgetary area is automatically created to implement similar reduction measures in 2019, amounting to 1% of GDP. So, ladies and gentlemen, there is no heresy and no other condition. Only condition that exists is our economy to continue this course - I would say the impressive course - upwards in recent months. Of course, the closure of the second assessment would also be an important condition not only to continue, but to speed up this positive, impressively positive path in the Greek economy. Of course, you will not hear from us any celebrations or triumphs. We don't triumph. But we cannot hide our satisfaction, for the first time we hear from official lips - and I am referring to the heads of institutions - about the need to stop this vicious circle of austerity in Greece. To end after seven years in perseverance, in irrational insistence on additional austerity. There is, of course, still a road ahead of us. The technical work to be done in the next period will be important. I am not hiding, however, and neither do I want to be vivid in my statements and in the performance of the good news and Euklidis Tsakalotos and Giorgos Tuliarakis, in all the negotiating group that has achieved something that you could not even imagine will happen. That's why you put all your eggs in a basket, that we're going to fail. It is therefore a sound response to those who have been destroying that we will give it all away, that we will have to retreat to all fronts and so on. Today I see the New Democracy colleagues very concerned and there is one question: Mr Mitsotakis, who played a leading role in these disaster scenarios, why does he not say anything? Okay, it was said that man had a cold in the last few days. Yesterday I saw him in the public service of the "Stavros Niarchos" Foundation, and I wished him passing through. Couldn't he make a written statement? Can't he tell us a point of view? Last Friday, he was not here and said, "You lead us to the cliff, to the disaster, won't the negotiation be closed?" Why doesn't he talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u27	What negotiation?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u28	What negotiation?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u29	If you have anything to say in his name, I will listen to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u30	Will you allow the President to give us the floor for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u31	Mr. Tragaki, if your Chief runs away from last Monday, he shows up here, I'll stay by night to answer him. I'll be here to answer him.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u32	Does he have the right, Mr President, to speak? Here's the Rules of Procedure. He was supposed to know. Article 142a could be applied to major issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u33	Don't argue, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u34	Yesterday and yesterday, ladies and gentlemen, the members of the New Democracy and the communication mechanism set up to protect the New Democracy discovered that they were supposedly - and with great anxiety - Mr Tsakalotos was hidden and were looking for him. I don't know if they went to Mrs. Nicolulis to do an investigation or Mr. Hardavella. They were looking for him, and Chakalotos came to the House yesterday and answered the question. He will find himself next Tuesday, after Monday's clean, in the Committee on Economic Affairs and he will speak. What we expect with great interest is to see when your Chief will speak. And it's really hard to talk, because it's in a strategic deadlock. I would therefore like to return to the question raised by the President of the Centro Union and to come to a fourth given point on the principle of agreement, which is very important to us. The fourth presumption is that the possibility is being formulated - and this may also be one of the most important issues of the negotiation in the technical field - of returning working normality before the end of the current programme and always on the basis of the European social model. Because Greece cannot be an exception from the other European countries. Greece cannot be an exception to the European social model, as the previous governments have chosen on industrial relations. These, ladies and gentlemen, are the data. We have reached this outline of an agreement, which is positive for the Greek side, and we have come to an end following a brutal attempt and negotiation. We arrived here, because we did not follow the skateboard of the previous governments, who, on one night, signed everything that was absurd and anti-social measures, fell at the negotiating table just to get political time. We were called upon to adopt this perpetual crescendo of irresponsibility by Mr Mitsotakis and the officials of the New Democracy. In other words, the signature of the country on white paper which will then be supplemented by measures to bleed the majority. So this time is over. And I think everyone knows it abroad now. We proved this in the first assessment when we failed to accept the irrational requirements. We prove this on the way to the second assessment, when we did the same by insisting on the real elements and the basic economic rationalisation required by the management of the Greek programme. Of course we have an absolute awareness of the time horizon within which the evaluation must be completed, so that the Greek economy can strengthen the growth trend and the real potential of the Greek economy. As we understand, however, it is as important as when the evaluation will be closed and how the evaluation will be closed. The bases of the agreement that were put forward yesterday now allow us to move quickly in the next period and reach a final and forward-looking agreement with the institutions. In this context, we are ready to discuss the real elements and sizes of the Greek economy, both for the Greek debt medium-term measures and for the so-called fiscal path that Greece will follow at the end of the programme. We are now in a phase of tone that economic rationalization and realism give him. So - and I would like to stress this from the Step forward of the House - proposals such as those of the German Ministry of Finance for primary surpluses of 3.5% over a decade have been time to leave the table. In this way, I believe that the way will be opened for the adoption of a credible and realistic plan, which, together with the definition of medium-term measures to alleviate the Greek debt will consolidate the Greek economy and unlock the possibilities it has. With the completion of these steps and the integration into the European Central Bank's quantitative relaxation programme, Greece will take the most decisive step out of the crisis and the fiscal adjustment programmes. In two words, therefore, the cycle of austerity is closed and we are entering a new period much more important for the country's progress in the coming years, when the central element will be the production of new wealth, attracting investment, will be to strengthen the comparative advantages of the Greek economy. All this in order to fulfil the number of national objectives, which are the drastic reduction in unemployment through the creation of stable and well-paid jobs in the years to come. We have already started our planning in this area for a long time. I want to stand - and I will end, Mr President, to say in my dentistry a few things, if necessary - in something that has dealt with the debate between the Heads of Institutions and the Greek negotiating team at the Eurogroup last Monday, but perhaps a little bit of interest in the opposition ostrich in Greece and that sometimes the most important and serious things we are not talking about. I am referring to our initiative to finance an active fight against unemployment programme. It is a programme that we are seeking to fuel through investment to strengthen innovative entrepreneurship and the social economy with thousands of new jobs in the next two and a half years. Our aim is negotiating, what we are discussing and this is perhaps the most important thing on the countermeasures - so I think we baptised them here in Greece - is to end up with our partners in a technical agreement that any amount spent on this programme will not be counted on the calculation of the primary surpluses. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] That is where we are putting the burden of our efforts in the next few years, because only that way can, in practice, and not only in the figures, bring about a real recovery for the social majority, especially for the new generation. Unfortunately, we are desperately in this debate alone in the country's political scene, but I believe that with the latest developments and the closure of the evaluation by 20 March we will have the opportunity to debate here and, Mr President of the Central Association on the important issues, which are how unemployment will be reduced, how new wealth will be created, how the social majority will be protected, how finally, the country will come out of this great adventure, the lifting of its sovereignty, the comitology that has been found in the last seven years. And if you want, and my personal goal, but also the aim of this government, is to be the government that defys the Cassandra and with the aim of propulsion, with determination, with stability, will succeed. We will be able to get the country out of the memorials, get the country out of the reunion, get the country out of the comitology, get the country out of the crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u35	Ladies and gentlemen, before I give the floor to Mr Leventis, I will make two announcements and then one clarification on the procedure. I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having participated in the educational program "ERGASITI REPUBLIC", organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twelve students and students and two educational attendants from the 1st Anavyssou Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Also, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, thirty-eight students and students and three educational attendants from the 3rd Drama High School and the Drama Gymnasium. The House welcomes them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u36	Mr President, on a point of order, do you have anything to say? Because the issue has been raised for no reason.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u37	Let us clarify something about the procedure, which Mr Tragakis and Mr Bourras have already set out in an ex-procedural way, but in an extremely decent way, as the honourable Members have been doing for years, and therefore it is mature to clarify it. The procedure under which this debate is held for a third consecutive Friday concerns Rules 129 and 132 of the Rules of Procedure, where the Prime Minister accepts a question either from a party president or from a fellow Member. He had even answered two such questions at the previous Session and answered them. It is not a process of monologue or monologue. It's a dialogue process, but between two.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u38	Two, isn't it? No one else has the right to speak, no matter what.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u39	Mr Colleague, let me tell you. There is Rule 142a of the Rules of Procedure, which is another procedure concerning communications which the Government wants to make on major issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u40	That's the point.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u41	Please, ladies and gentlemen. Let's clarify them so we can all know. This is another procedure in which the Prime Minister or a prominent member of the Government - for example, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, the Minister of Finance - is convened on the initiative of the Government at a meeting in which announcements are made on this matter and during this process the Heads of the parties, all the parties involved in Parliament, if they want, or their representatives, as long as they want, their alternates...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u42	Oh, no! Their representatives are not, Mr President! They don't have the right.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u43	It's in 142A. They are taking the floor and a debate is taking place, which is obviously more prosperous and perhaps qualitative than the simple answer to one of the parties' leaders. And it is less than the basic procedure we have in the previous day's debate at the level of parties leaders.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u44	Well done. That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u45	That is right, the Rules of Procedure have such an extra article in the sense that there is a limitation on the agenda. And, for example, it would not be possible to say to the Qualified Opposition or to the Government that they do not do every little and a little bit of a day's debate. It is only two and by a different time, which can be invoked and proposed by the Qualified Opposition. One is on the initiative of the President of Parliament, etc. It is therefore a third, a different procedure, which, when selected by the government and chosen, will be done in accordance with the rules now invoked by my fellow Members. I just want to stress the background that, in the course of the previous government, before 2015, neither the process nor the procedure, i.e. the simple answer from the part of the previous Prime Minister and Head of the New Democracy, Mr Samaras, nor the general debate, has ever been carried out. We refer to articles activated from 1999 to 2004. It is up to us to make use of them. I say this to both the government and the parties so that they can be exploited. The New Democracy yesterday just asked and automatically accepted by the Bureau of the Standing Committee on Economic Affairs, on Tuesday already...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u46	She couldn't help it. There are signatures.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u47	It's compulsory.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u48	You're welcome. Whether one can do otherwise, you are much older than me and you know, Mr. Bourra and Mr. Tragakis, what has happened. Let it go, don't talk about it now. Don't get overthinked. Immediately it was accepted, it was also passed by the Conference of Presidents, and on Tuesday afternoon there will also be a comfortable discussion with colleagues who participate in the Standing Committee on Finance. So this information debate is already taking place in the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u49	Mr President, can I have the floor for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u50	Mr. Tragakis has a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u51	I want a minute, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u52	No, Mr. Bourra. Mr. Tragakis has a minute and forty years in here, so he has one minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u53	Mr President, I should also like to address you to the Bureau. I will not raise a political issue to answer. I raised a point of order. And I raised the point of order as follows, because the issue we are discussing today is a very serious one. It's not Mr. Leventis' question. Mr Leventis' question related to the refugee issue and does not fit in with it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u54	That's next. Now it's for the Eurogroup.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u55	Yeah, for the Eurogroup. The debate was very serious and neither the public nor the House has yet been informed. The SYRIZA Parliamentary Group may have been informed, but the House has not been informed. And what you said, Mr President, as regards the coming of the Minister of Finance on Tuesday, is compulsory for the Minister to come, because the Rules of Procedure provide for it, since the required number of Members has asked to come and inform us, Mr President, of the finance ministers. I don't see him here today, but man will have many jobs, indeed, in view of all we have and come. But Rule 142a, Mr President, as you have quite rightly explained, gives the Government the right to request a broader debate which could enable all the Heads of State and Government of all the parties to take the floor, to take the floor, to give the Prime Minister a second answer, to the President-in-Office of the Council and to shut down the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u56	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u57	Therefore, this process of such a serious issue, which concerns the future of the country for a whole 20-year period, I feel that it could have gone through this process.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u58	Good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u59	That was the reason for my interruption to the Prime Minister. If I wanted to interrupt the Prime Minister, only for a matter of substance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u60	It's understood. However, Mr President, I should like to point out to you that your appeal and the encouragement, from your parliamentary experience, have not been able to do so, or, in any case, it has not been possible to apply throughout the previous phase since the country has been in this adventure for six years, and at least now we have been able by the other procedures to have a lively debate. Thank you. It is a matter of clearing up the issues. Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u61	Mr President of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry to say last to you that there has been a debate today without any controversy. Of course, the cohort fights light up the blood. And I saw that with a couple of vacations Mr. Tragakis made, the blood immediately lit. So we are dying for applause in this Chamber, while we should be dying for sincere, modest dialogue. I find it that way because the next time Mr. Mitsotakis asked a question in here, we didn't only play wood. However, I think that when you are given the opportunity to applaud, you feel that your mission is best accomplished. It's wrong. I think that serious discussions are what people appreciate most if we take the world into account. I didn't get an answer from the Prime Minister about whether he'd get the Katorugalou law back. I said it's a law that creates a second tax. Apart from tax paid by some citizens, a second large amount comes and they pay again. And we're unique in that. I also asked him to explain to us what he would say "when I get you 100 euros, then I'll see you again". I said it was a global phenomenon. He said it wasn't happening until now. But he didn't tell us how to do it. I don't understand how it's gonna happen. He will vote - he says - together with measures and countermeasures. Should we say to him 'and the penalties and the retaliation'? Should we choose other words? What are the countermeasures? When I tell you that one has 12 wages and you take them with the fall of the tax-free one - he took fourteen and now he gets twelve - and we give them eleven, how will you give them back to him, Mr. Tsipras? By cutting VAT on the islands, will the wage come back to him? You have not given a concrete answer on that either. You also said that the country has entered a period of meeting the targets, namely, that we are going well, that we will have 2% surplus, etc. Is this all for another reason and not why the economy is moving? You know if the country stopped eating for six months, the surplus could be 15%. In other words, we can achieve a surplus from the necrosis of the economy. Because in the last quarter of 2016, the country only paid taxes and go eat food. No investment took place. There was a phobia. I see it in my family, too. Only taxes were paid by people and they were looking to have money for traffic charges, for one and the other. So do the numbers prosper, in the sense that we have a surplus, but this is due to necrosis? Because I tell you that if we don't eat all the time, the surplus may be 50%, but Greece will be dead. There will be no Greece living the joy of this surplus. Then you said about working regularity. I think there's a middle-aged worker. What kind of work regularity? Is there work regularity? This is where they pay in gift cards. Here the system has begun to pay with gift cards, i.e., "Come, work and you'll get a TV from Kotsovolo". These things have begun. And we're talking about working regularity. Then we talked about a hundred thousand new jobs. Has there been any discussion today about what these jobs are? He asked, I think, Düsseblum and he didn't know what that was. That, he says, is not contained anywhere in the discussions that have taken place. Then you said there was the contour of the deal. But others say that the institutions are coming to start the negotiations and you have the contour of the agreement ready? This is a contradiction to society. Then I told you that there is a mixed pension from the International Monetary Fund. This means that the cleans are a little over 900 euros. Why don't we tell the Greek people the truth? Why are we hiding behind our finger? You have no personal responsibility here. You've been ruling for two years. You have your share of time. There are deeper responsibilities than in the past. But you have not answered that either if you know that the International Monetary Fund is calling for 1,200 mixeds. And the only way to answer that was to make growth. You see growth? The only way is for there to be an excess growth, but not an excess of placebo, resulting from the necrosis of the production process. Because that surplus you mentioned is virtual. It is not a surplus that enables you to make financial planning. Also, should the pensions of former Members not be cut? We cut them after 2012. Before 2012, what was it? Gambling? The pensions of the former MPs why should they exist? It's eight hundred pensions. Why give them to the former MPs? I'm the bad guy in this room? Regarding the number of Members, Germany, with eighty million people, has six hundred thirty Members and we, with ten million, have three hundred. What for? Why should we be three hundred in this Chamber? Are we all perfectly useful? I have asked you to tell me what reform is and what measures are, because there is confusion. Reform is something that on a permanent basis saves or something that on a permanent basis produces. That's reform. The other things you do are taxation, wage cuts, etc. This has been done since 2009. I want answers when I ask a question and not a question, Prime Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u62	Why are they applauding?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u63	And you don't applaud stiffly?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u64	Thank you. The President has the floor, Mr Tsipras.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u65	Mr President, I will try to give you answers, but let me say some things, because it is an opportunity to be in this House. I'm actually watching you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u66	As long as you don't feel sorry for Mr. Tragakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u67	Well, it's okay, I might be sad. But you know, I had the opportunity today to answer who asked me a question. So you asked me a question Tuesday morning - at 9.10 p.m. the question came to the President of Parliament - after the Eurogroup. Your other colleagues did not want it, they did not consider it appropriate. You took advantage of the parliamentary procedure and I am here and I answer you. From there on, of course, I have the right through my answers to criticise. I am not responsible for the fact that there is today no possibility of a dialogue with the Civilian Federation. After all, it could cause a debate either by asking me or by way of the Rules of Procedure of the House. I would therefore like to respond to a few things that I did not mention in my first speech and which you have raised. You talked about the insurance policy. First of all, Mr President, I should like to say to you: All the previous time they went out and said to the media, in vulgar newspaper titles, in films of political dialogue, that Tsipras is a liar and Catrugalos a great liar and Ahtsoglu also a liar. Why? Because, he says, we've brought them all to the level of insurance contributions. We have not come out to say that these insurance contributions did not impose certain incomes. We said it clearly. Sure. Could it be wrong? Can it be a different perception? Maybe. Criticize us. But we didn't work in white, tabula rasa. In a specific financial framework, we were forced not to square the cycle, but to be able to bring a solution that would not increase the burden on pensioners and basic pensions, so it would have to obtain revenue from contributions. And how do we distribute these burdens to the citizens, contributions, freelance professionals? Based on income. And what did we say? We said that 80% is getting lighter and 20% is being charged. They all fell to eat us. The Undersecretary, Mr. Petropoulos, came out and said something at a radio station, and they canvassed him. He said: "I went out on the street and came shopkeepers and said to me, we pay less," and he was channelled to all stations, "the liar", "the evil." And yesterday's ERIC investigation comes up... [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Don't laugh. Mr. Corkides is a SYRIZA? If it's SYRIZA, tell me. So, yesterday, the ESS survey says that 77% of the free traders, traders and craftsmen are being reduced by contributions, 9% pays the same, and that is where there is a 14% charge. Are we happy that 14% is being charged? Oh, no. Is there a problem of excessive burden on some of them? There is. I admit that, Mr President. However, it is not always in this place, in the name of the feasibility of a opposition rhetoric, to make the white - black one, because the vast majority pay less contributions. How do we do it? You have told me some very important issues about taxes. We are not the ones who burdened the Greek family with taxes. Previous governments did it. We were indeed forced, under the suffocating pressure in the first negotiations, to make a burden on the corporate tax rate - that is not good - and also on VAT. However, it was caused by those who have reduced it - they have achieved something unprecedented indeed! - national wealth by 25% in four years. You'll tell me, when you have a donkey loaded with the samare weight and put a boulder above, he can't take it. I will agree with you, but this criticism is unfair. In any case, you, who are a well-deserved man, also see the positive things that are being done, because we received unemployment at 27.5% and today is 23%.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u68	At 25.9%.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u69	We have received unemployment - and you see the official statistics - 27.5% and today it is 23% and our goal is unemployment in the next few years to reduce. Here we all have to realise that the great national objective for the country for the next few years is to restore normality at work and to find jobs that are stable, permanently, for the young people who leave abroad, to go from Brain to Brain gain, to regain work for the new generation. I now want you to allow me, Mr President, to refer to - and, in fact, to your question, which was the subject of the agreement last week, the Monday that we have been through, and the possibilities that we will have from now on. First of all, let me tell you that we're open to talk. You ask how we will be able to ensure that the loser is able to balance the loss. There are technical possibilities to talk about it. You suggested thoughts, ideas, opinions, too. We're open to this. And I imagine it will make sense in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs on Tuesday, instead of talking about the morning gossip, whether Tsakalotos is here or is not here and where he is - you know, people need to be viewed, so leave those for the morning shops, don't bother about them - to talk about the substance, in what way in this framework of agreement, which we have, we will actually be able to have as fair as possible a fair distribution of burdens and also a reduction. And I would like to say, Mr Leventis, a few words, because I am following your position, a central position, a criticism, that is, both to the people and to the people. Okay. Sometimes you are even more - let me say so - positively to lay burdens on the name of Europe, to take the burdens. That is why you are constantly saying that we should all share political responsibility together and so on. You know, Mr. Leventis, I have no issue...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u70	To the owners and bearers of the charge.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u71	Yeah, all right. But you know, we're not alone here. Here we have some creditors, who have been very hard on the country, who have recently started talking about ending austerity. In fact, they insist on choices, which have a negative social sign. I would therefore like to tell you this: we are determined to bear the burden of responsibility. And we are determined to raise the burden of responsibility ourselves, SYRIZA and ANEL, because we alone have raised it for two years now, giving a battle to keep society up against irrational demands. And we are judged by the Greek people. But the opposition is also judged, Mr. Leventis. The Opposition is also judged for this. In the first evaluation Mr Mitsotakis, a new leader, had come out and said, "I am not in a hurry", he was obviously pressed by various publishing interests that were raped for their loans and various other extremes within the New Democracy, and while they were all very clear that the requirements of the International Monetary Fund for 3.6 billion euros are unreasonable - and it was since Christmas 2015 - instead of getting a place then, he was whistling indifferently and suddenly beginning to say: "Objections, not to close the assessment, to make elections." So he repeated the second time. You know what? It makes sense in politics to make mistakes. But it is good to learn from our mistakes. We need to learn from our mistakes. The two have sinned not a man of wisdom. So he comes and repeats the same. And what does it come up to and it says, and in a much worse way? When the Fund brings back the same claim to the second assessment, not only does it not take a stand against this claim, not only does it not tell the Greek people what it proposes to do, not only does it not put back, but it goes to Berlin shortly before the critical negotiation and throws the burdens on the Greek side, because - he says - it is delaying. And it's not just Mr. Mitsotakis. The New Democracy MEPs are doing so in the debate on the Greek programme in the European Parliament, where they were the only ones from all the wings they spoke about, who were placed against the country - not the government - and who gave responsibility for the delays. I want you to let me tell you something. You know, the German language has a word that is translated into Greek. It's called "fremdscham" and it means shameful for something else that someone else does. I want with this German word to render the feeling, which I feel about the attitude of the Chief of Police in Berlin shortly before the second assessment is closed. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] [[Noise - protests from the New Democracy Wing]] And I feel ashamed, because at the end of the day it's an anti-patriotic attitude. And I keep an eye on my words. I would therefore like to say something by asking you, Mr Leventis, because I do not have a debate here with the Members. I'm answering to you. You tell me, it would lose or win the country's political system, but also the opposition itself, if in the first assessment, but also in the second assessment, you went out and said: - above all, the Chief of Officerial Response - "I agree with the government, the government has made it wrong, but I support the national effort not to impose these absurd demands." Who would win? Who would lose and who would win? As the Anglo-Saxons and my friend Euclid, who is an Anglo-Saxon speaking English well, "win-win" would be for him. In other words, if we did not succeed, it would come out and say, "Here, we have supported them again, they are so useless that they have not succeeded." And now that we have succeeded, they would at least have the opportunity to come out and say: 'They have succeeded because we supported them and formed a national front'. But even this elementary intelligence does not exist. Why, Mr. Leventis? Because passion for returning to the chairs of power to continue this disastrous work that they have done over these decades is stronger than the patriotic duty. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] But I would like to close by saying: What some do not understand in the country is that 2015 is not the same for the country with 2017. Why? Because these two years have become many and important. You know, some people cannot understand that there is the possibility of political negotiation and they think it's just the technical steps. Any way out has now been found in the field of politics and not in the field of technocrats. They didn't even realize that the country since 2015 has changed, that the country is not alone, that the country is no longer a beggar. They did not realize that in this mid-term, great leaders visited our country. Within a very short period of time, President Obama came here, President Putin, came Pope Francis for the refugee, came President Olad, came the leaders of the South. They came here and created a front, a shield, if you like, to irrational demands at political level. New alliances and new correlations have been formed. President Juncker is here. President Tusk is here. They did not understand that Greece has stopped being the country of the carpet and of the Islam, as we received it in 2015, and it became a country that plays an important geopolitical role, it is serious and designing an active foreign policy strategy with our tripartite partnerships with Cyprus, Egypt and Israel, with our interventionism in Cyprus and in Greek-Turkish relations, with the crucial role we played in refugee matters, so that this difficult agreement between the European Union and Turkey can be reached and a settlement. They didn't understand anything. They have not yet understood anything when President Obama here came to make his last presence as President, making this reason for staying in history for Greece. They thought Greece was still the country of the carpet. Now, then, he's got a sprat. I'm so sorry they don't understand. I will ask them and I will ask you, and I will ask everyone, for all the political wings to realize that the country will come out of the crisis, because we are determined to get this country out of the crisis and why the Greek people are determined to turn around. And that's what the last Greek understands.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u72	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and operated, forty-two students and students and two educational attendants from the 4th Athens Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the current questions to the Prime Minister has been concluded and we continue with the other topical questions, which are scheduled for discussion. I would ask you for two minutes to take an informal break until those of us who want to leave and to change the Bureau.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u73	Ladies and gentlemen, we continue with our fourth question under number 511/21-2-2017, the first-round question of the MP Drama of the Democratic Association of PASOKs - DIMAR Mr. Kefalidou to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on "the conclusion of Occupational Accountants - S/N for collective management of intellectual property rights and related rights and for the granting of multi-territorial permits for online use of musical works and other cultural issues". The current question will be answered by the Minister for Culture and Sport, Mr Connordou. Please, Mrs. Kefalidou, you have the floor under the Rules of Procedure for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, Mr President. I would ask, however, after what we have seen, that the six-minute period should become thirty and that the topical questions should actually begin at 12.00 a.m., an elementary esteem for the Members as well. I'm sorry, Minister, that I'm going to ruin the celebrity climate in the Chamber, where Mr. Tsipras has made it clear to us that everything is going beforehand. I will talk to you about real Greece and I will talk to you about a fact of control of GDPI, which was made on behalf of the Ministry of Culture and brought to light elements that are really creepy. Remunerations of 640,000 euros a year for the CEO, annual earnings of relatives of the board of directors of EUR 450,000, indiscriminate rights to creators over EUR 40 million, illegal loans to members of the board of directors. These are some of the shocking things that have been revealed. I would remind you that the attempt to regulate the landscape of copyright management is an old story. The German initiative at the end of 2011, model procedure for the proper legislature, has been started. Then your former Minister of Culture, Nikos Xydakis, dared to order that the management of GDP should proceed. It was August 2015. Due to the non-cooperation of GNI, work was frozen before they even started and started only after a fine was imposed in September 2016. The audit was completed on 6 February 2017 and concerns the three years 2011-2014. The conclusion is extremely revealing. I am bold: negative funds amounting to EUR 20 million and therefore unable to repay its obligations. Operational costs higher than its revenues and thus losses EUR 11,3 million for 2011-2014. What do you think was the reaction of the GDPI by depositing your first bill, which tried to put elementary order in the field of creators and their copyright? It was no other than its outward move to Cyprus, and all of this in order to circumvent the legislation promoted by the Ministry of Culture on copyright and obviously did not suit it. The GDPI has done well. An anonymous company, she's looking at her interests. Therefore, the original draft law is given to the consultation on 23 December 2015. The consultation is over in January 2016. In the meantime, the move of GNI to Cyprus in March 2016 is mediated. On 5 July 2016 a draft law with other content, favourable to GDPI this time, and a few hours after we lost it, you withdrew it and you did well, because you would have been unrealisticly exposed. In February 2017, a new form of the draft law is released and a press release of your Ministry, on 13-2-2017, you are announcing that it is already in the process of being tabled to Parliament. There we are today, in the midst of a previous scandal, with huge economic interests and a number of actors fighting, from the creators to the last user and a bill - a ghost. I ask you: With this data and the information revealed by the GNI conclusion, which you should have first given to the parties and not leaked through the Internet by the sworn accountant company, what are you going to do with this draft law? Do you intend to bring what has been released in the last verbal and scandalous - contrary to the original draft law that was given to the consultation - gives privileges to a public limited company and even full of scandals, with a board of directors charged with such charges? Do you think it's enough to send the findings to the prosecutor, who's going to do two months, three months or five months? Is that what you think you're done with? Do you know that users have stopped paying, having an alibi to the irregularities of GNI? Every day that passes, do you know how much money is lost for the thousands of creators? I ask you: why, in view of these revelations, do you not go directly, yesterday, I would say to you, even by way of an amendment, to appoint a State Commissioner with substantial powers? There is a precedent - you know - and that will ensure transparency and legitimacy. Why don't you, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u75	Thank you. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Mrs Kefalidou, for calling me to respond to a subject that really employs thousands of creators and thousands of users and not just now, but for many years, decades, I would say. What was revealed today was that it was true in the form of a secret, which everyone knew, but no one wanted to get it out of light. When the current government took power in 2015, it was the first time - and I stress it - that was a real political will to reveal this secret, at last, which, while everyone knew it, was concealed by everyone well, to serve purposes, possibly interests. So the government said 'no' in this situation and wanted to make it clear, to protect both authors and beneficiaries of copyright and related rights and users. It also concerns us to protect the authors, because today, with the piracy they have been piracy, their only sources of income are either living appearances or these rights. This is not easy, as you know very well. As I understand it from my predecessors, but also from my experience, the issue of the management of copyright and related rights is multifaceted and requires particular attention and attention. The Government was required to create a regulatory framework which would smoothen and create relationships between the authors, performers, performers and all the beneficiaries of intellectual and related rights on the one hand, legal persons who, almost once monopolised, manage these rights on the other and users, i.e. consumers in a broad sense, of intellectual works for their own commercial purposes as a third party. That took time, open consultations, dialogue with the bodies that we called on the Ministry to give us their views and, of course, to have a common, parallel effort to correct the problem cases of the past. Our aim is to build something new on solid foundations rather than on a slack of the past. That is why the Ministry was asked for the management of GDPI and welcomed the conclusion - as you acknowledged - that took its way to justice, because we must all know what should not be a collective management organisation of intellectual and related rights of the new era. We are arriving today with a bill - and not a ghost - which has taken its way to testify to the House and all of you will be invited to vote in a short time, which provides for the new framework for the operation of collective management organisations and independent management entities. To speak openly. GNI will only be able to continue to operate if it changes and implements and respects all the conditions and rules laid down by this new law, which ensure transparency and legality on the basis of your question. What are we introducing with the new law? No privileges, Mrs Kefalidou, but strict rules for the governance of legal persons managing copyright and related rights, with the participation of the rightholders themselves in the administrative and supervisory bodies, so that they themselves control management and define their terms. [[At this point the doorbell ends the speech time of the Minister is ringing.]] That is why we provide for a general meeting and a supervisory board with increased responsibilities for each collective management organisation and GI, compulsory rules on transparency in the functioning, decision-making and action of collective management bodies of the independent entities - so that everyone can know their rights and obligations and have the same treatment - structured exchanges with users and representative associations, suspension of the final counter-routes and compulsory - and I stress - e-commerce between them in order to eliminate problems of the past. At the end of the day, we provide for strict supervision and control of the market in intellectual and related rights by the Ministry of Culture and the Intellectual Property, authorisation of collective management organisations and independent entities, with criteria for sustainability and transparency, sanctions in the event of infringements, and the possibility of applying to the court for the designation of a resolution commission if a serious management and financial problem arises, with a view not to closing down a public limited company.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u77	Madam Secretary, you have a second language.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u78	I shall conclude, Mr President. It is a big deal, Mr President. I ask for your understanding. I'll be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u79	Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u80	We don't want to close a company that leaves thousands of creators on the road and creates a huge gap. I believe that you, too, do not want the area of copyright and related rights not to finally become operational and participatory, with the contributions of the beneficiaries themselves, with legal and transparent action and strict government supervision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u81	Thank you. Please, Mrs. Kefalidou, answer for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, I have listened very carefully. What you are referring to is obviously elements of the new bill, which the parties unfortunately do not know about. Another bill, which has entered the consultation, has preceded what you are telling us today, is what we all expect to see. Only some basic principles of this bill have been leaked, mainly by operators and publications. I will tell you what we consider to be fundamental: if the findings of the sworn accountants in the parties had already been given, the position of the Ministry of Culture had already been made clear and the announcement made immediately by the statement was made. As you, in other words, made a statement and said that the bill is in the General Accounting Office of the State, that you had made a statement that for what they saw the publicity, the Ministry of Culture is not deaf. Immediately, it goes hand in hand with the consolidation of GDP. It appoints a State Commissioner, with enhanced powers directly, so as not to collapse the GDPI and not to lure almost all creators and users together with incalculable consequences. What you're saying about a resolution commission looks like the ceremonial offices, which are called to manage the burial process of a corpse. We tell you: keep the GNI running. Appoint a State Commissioner, moreover, the European directive imposes on Article 36. Name him as you think he is, but give him the decisive powers. You've got models. Lending from the procedures followed by banks and financial institutions. Do it now. I believe you will have everyone's support. Let's get serious. It is not possible for the draft laws to be circulated orally in the mouth as if they were gossip. Take a seat. Find the boldness to legislate as you should. With a draft law whereby the State will provide the insurance margins so that there can be no such phenomenon of irregularities in the future by a commercial company managing copyright. Today you have a terrible opportunity. Let the scandal become an opportunity to essentially consider a draft law on copyright, which, however technically it may seem, is so important, because it touches too many, and because the money that is being moved is too much, in order for the state, even unwittingly, to suffer the interests of a family or some favoured, whatever it may be. Madam Minister, listen to me. You're an artist, too. I know your sensations. Follow the correct legalization. Even for a change once. Here's a state commissioner now. Give the draft law that you will come up with for brief consultation and bring it to the House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u83	Thank you. Please, Minister, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Mr President. The bill has already taken the road set by the procedures provided. This is the first time the state has anticipated what happened now through this law. This has come through democratic dialogue and not with a high authoritarian decision.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u85	The first bill, not what you bring.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u86	We are talking about what is now being tabled.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u87	You haven't brought it to the consultation.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u88	He'll come through the legal procedures. This is the first time that there has been an open dialogue with the creators, who themselves are in the process of assemblies, collective decisions to deal with their own problems. This is done for the first time, just through this open dialogue that we have created. We have arranged for this case that we now have through this bill, which will follow brief procedures. I hope that you can support it so as to protect artists, creators and users, so that there can be rules and that this story can be brought into a new phase in accordance with the Community directive. As you know, the Community directive is a general direction and, as it says, each country complements its own landscape. We want this dialogue to take place. We have constant contact with the creators. Based on this contact, we'll arrange our further course.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u89	With GDPI, what are you going to do?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u90	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u91	Thank you, too. We move to the first with number 2185-21-12-2016 question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the reopening of the Social Security Council. The State Secretary for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity will answer Mr. Petropoulos. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, Mr President. The question concerns a serious matter. It is the institution of the Social Security Council, in which the legislator - as early as 1980 - has delegated serious powers to deal with the administrative issues of social security, the budgets, reports and annual accounts of the Funds, the opinion on the proportionate studies which have long been stopped, and with specific issues such as the one that employs hundreds of thousands of EAFRD and the OAU. In particular, on 1-1 1993, those who were insured in the Single Fund of Self-employed persons and who were employed in the EFF had to be transferred to the SNE. However, if the activity carried out was not relevant to the activity provided by the EFF alone, they could remain only in the EFF. Since there have been, there will be many doubts as to where the insurance is subject, the legislature has enabled the social security Council to make a difference and to make it clear that it is exempted from OSH insurance and remains only in the EAFRD of an insured person who does not engage in double insurance activity. Thousands, hundreds of applications have been filed. I don't know the exact number. However, given that there are other outstanding issues concerning the Social Security Council, which - according to the information we have - has to meet for over two and a half years, all we ask is for you to ensure that the Social Security Council meets. We also ask, until the decisions are adopted, that the OSCE should stop charging insurance contributions for those who have recourse to the Social Security Council and, of course, that there should be no measures for these people, whether through the OSCE or through the OSCE, which has committed the accounts and which cannot be operated by companies. In this sense we are asking directly for the reopening of meetings of the Social Security Council and the resolution of the serious issues which concern it and, in particular, the specific issue that I raised to you on the relationship between the EBRD and the EUPM. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u93	Thank you. Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Kegeroglu, this dual quality that L.3863/2010 restored for the insurance of those who were insured in the EFF to be insured in the OAU, if they have any other unrelated scientific quality of professional activity, is that it did cause a problem for several people to submit relevant objections and applications to the Social Security Council to be resolved. It is still a symptom of a poor state of the past, which is resolved by Law No.4387/2016, with the new insurance law, with the Single Social Security Agency, so that things do not happen. Of course, it's not just them, but there's a lot of people who were in the OGA and OAU at the same time. There are too many such cases which we need to deal with with with in a sense of justice. I will tell you exactly about the situation in the Social Security Council. Since 2013 there were seventy-seven cases pending. In five successive meetings between July and September 2016, all of these were resolved. They were kept pending two cases that had been introduced on request in 2015 and eight which had been introduced in the year 2016. So ten cases were left and all the others were solved. There are also ten cases, which in the Ministry's protocol were also introduced in 2016. In other words, there are still some twenty pending and we are awaiting the suggestions made by the relevant officials so that, immediately, in March, the next meeting will be completed as well. Therefore, contrary to your mistaken impression, the Social Security Council is operating from our Ministry to resolve old, late cases, since 2013, which had been in drawers and are, as I said, seventy-seven in number. My apology is rather a conviction for your policy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u95	Thank you. Please, Mr Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u96	Mr President, there will obviously be incomplete information to the Minister. You will tell me the dates of the meetings and I will indeed check it out to see, because I have said that, from the information I have, there are hundreds of issues pending in the Social Security Council. It is not only the differences between EBRD and OAUs. It's too much of a deal. If the Social Security Council has authorized a committee to deal with this issue, this committee may have met several times. In any case, you can arrange to meet, in order to deal with questions, to answer people and above all to resolve the issue that was not solved by Mr.4387/2016, because otherwise you would say to me today, "Mr. Kegeroglou, you are wrong, because Mr. No.4387/2016 has solved the issues. Today we are able to say that what you say to me has already been solved by L.4387/2016." The Commission's proposal is based on the principle of equal treatment of men and women in all Member States. This category of topics may no longer be created. But that's another thing. What you're talking about is confusing. Even the Prime Minister was confused earlier. I heard him say that what you said about the very happy person, you said it on a radio, while you said it here in the House officially, in reply to our question. So we'll talk clearer. I accept that you will see to it that you meet in March and that you will clear the cases. But I want to see how this whole thing is solved. You also mentioned something we had discussed in the previous question, that there are even differences between OGA and OAUs, mainly, and there should also be a fair solution for them and for the contributions that have been charged. A lot of money has been charged, but they are virtual. If the insurer accounts for collecting from there, it is virtual money and it is not fair to say in many cases - we cannot say to all. So I accept your answer that in March these cases will be cleared up. But I want you to activate the board on general issues too. If you also order a proportionate study, it will be good to know it, because it is the only insurance law, Law No.4387, which was passed without a proportionate study. Let us then do one, so that we can also prove what we support in relation to the partners, both you and us as Opposition, but above all Greece as a whole. If we do not have the common place on which to agree, to substantiate our positions as a country, you and any other government in'millstones' will continue to be found. You'll retreat and think you're going forward. You will accept the pressures, you will always agree to new measures and you will be showing that something else is happening, and the essence is to see how we can actually document the insurance through a proportionate study, which must be done, but also for the other sectors, of course, which are not your own competence. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, too. On the occasion of today's debate in this House, Minister, since the Prime Minister made a comment on insurance law, I would say that the Bureau is asking questions. It's good if you're good enough to clarify them. How does one who has finished his life insurance, or expects nothing rewarding, have to pay more if he works? So why does he not pay at least what he has been paying to date - that is a question - since his contribution is no longer in return for retirement? If you're opportune, it's good to clarify. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, Mr President. Every issue we see in the functioning of the new social security system, in a responsible and scientific way, is being examined. We will also consider what you have set me up. The truth is that in addition to the reply I have given here to the question by a Member of the Democratic Incorporation, the certainty that everyone sees as to the percentages - because the statistics have come out - which are the result of the contributions made by the insured, I mentioned them in a way that is naturally accurate, for the purposes of informing the Greek society on a crucial issue, which is strengthening social security. I think and so I will always think that I am responsible for informing the Greek society, all the insured - and where there are numbers - of this situation which is being shaped and encouraged, because it strengthens the possibilities of the insured who are trying to meet the obligations they have previously not been able to meet because of the burden of the contributions they have to pay in the context of the economic crisis. But every time you ask, they come out some specific channels at night and say that I applaud myself for that result. This slander about the truth does not favour either the country or the effort that we all have to make together. When we speak in Parliament, we must speak clearly and frankly, with the figures of which the correctness is established or may even be disproved. That is where dialogue should take place. Everything else is really inappropriate, at least for the time the country is in place and for the needs of the Greek people. In the end, I hope it will be serious to those who have lost it as to how they manage the news and the truth. This is an issue which we may have to deal with more carefully. Your question was very specific and why all these cases arising from the double insurance of EAFRD and AIF are delayed. I replied that it was from 2013, that is, cases pending from the previous government. Five meetings were held between July and September in which the case was closed. There have been two others since 2015 and eight since 2016, while another ten emerged lately, in 2016. They will be resolved too. In the way in which we should act in the interests of the insured, we should consider - and I have said so on several occasions - and any charges resulting from administrative errors or errors by the social security institutions. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] I have said many times that we must approach the public with responsibility the obligations caused by errors in public services and even by social security bodies, through the pluralism and the demonstrable procedures that existed in the past. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u99	Ladies and gentlemen, at this point I would like to inform you that the sixth question under number 507/20-2-2017 of the first cycle of the Member of Parliament II Piraeus, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, to the Minister of Finance, on hospitals at the Children's Hospital in Boston, will not be discussed, because of lack of competence, as the Secretary-General of the Government has informed Parliament. The Department of Health is responsible. Also, the second question under number 506/20-2-2017 of MP II of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdos to the Minister for Administrative Reconstruction, concerning recruitments under the procedure laid down in Article 63 of Law 4430/2016, will not be discussed due to the absence of Mrs. Gerovasili abroad. Furthermore, the fourth question under number 517/21-2-2017 of the Independent Member of the European Parliament, Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, concerning ‘the answers to questions put by the producers of photovoltaics that believed in the state's contractual commitments through PPC and through IPTO and the DEDDIE’, will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Minister. Mr Stathakis is present on an official mission of the Greek Government in Azerbaijan. In addition, the second question under number 502/20-2-2017 of the first cycle of the Member of Parliament of the New Republic of Heraklion, Eleftherios Ausgenakis, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, concerning ‘the misleading of farmers in relation to the possibility of compensation through Sub-measure 5.2’, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the honourable Member. Furthermore, the first question under number 512/21-2-2017 of the First Circuit of the Radical Left Coalition, Anna Vageias, to the Minister of Home Affairs, concerning the establishment – operation of the Dead Incineration Center (KAN) on behalf of the A/State Local Government units, will not be discussed and redefined for discussion, due to an impediment by the Minister of Home Affairs, Mr. Skourletis, due to unsettled obligations. The third question under number 504/20-2-2017, first cycle of the People's League MP - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Pappas to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on "the fulfilment of the Order of the Nation", will not be discussed as a result of a hindrance - a workload - of the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs Mr.Gavroglou. The fifth question under number 513/21-2-2017 of the first cycle of the Athens MP of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the reconstitution of the Labour Housing and Labour Housing Organisations, will not be discussed due to a hindrance - a workload - of the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity Mrs Ahtsoglou. The first question under number 503/20-2-2017 will not be discussed in the second cycle of the New Democracy MP, Konstantinos Javara, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the automatic correction of administrative errors to the forest maps of Elias, due to a workload of the Deputy Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Famelou.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u100	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u101	Here, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u102	Thank you, Mr President, for your kindness to give me the floor to this timely procedure. The Prime Minister made a report two weeks ago in this Chamber on the pricing of medicines and referred to a number of years, four months of which I was the Minister. I asked him twice a timely question by submitting all the data that fits into a timely question, on the subject that he raised and invited him here, to see if he is right. At the same time, I sent Mrs Ryku nine reference pages and seventy pages of documentation, which prove to be the opposite of what she said. I understand that the nerve is absolutely necessary to support his manhood and slander. But I didn't take the floor for that. I have taken the floor on another issue of order, which concerns you, the whole Bureau and the President of Parliament. I don't know, I'm going to look at the Rules of Procedure, what exactly does it provide for a minister lying before the National Representation. You said a moment ago and I was surprised that the Minister for Administrative Reconstruction, Mr. Gerovas, is not answering a timely question, because he is not abroad. But I saw her sitting on the bench just now. He sat down when the country's prime minister spoke to the cabinet. That, the excuse for falsehood, was given to her last night's office. In fact, when I was questioned by my colleagues, I told them to answer that it is very kind that we are being informed and that the world is not lost, we will discuss it another time. Is Mrs. Gerovali afraid of me? I know why he's scared of me. But is that reason not to come to Parliament? My question is very simple. My timely question is really timely, because it is a matter that is going on and I intend to give it two opinions, here at the National Representation, on how to deal with it, if there are any decisions that it would not want - which will probably exist - of the Council of State and of the House, because they have been the department. I didn't ask a question that would cause fear to her. I understand why she's scared, but I didn't ask that. How, Mr President, can my office say that it is missing abroad, that you say so, because the Minister has informed the Bureau of Parliament and is sitting here ten minutes ago? Mr Voutsis must tell us what is envisaged in this case. Mr President, it is also a question of big issues and small issues. But they should make fun of us in this way, and the House should not allow it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u103	The issue you raised will be raised in the Conference of Presidents, Mr Loverdos, and it will certainly be discussed. However, we have repeatedly stressed that the excuse for 'workload' or'remunerated obligations' is not sufficient, because parliamentary control is the duty of the Minister to come, does not depend on his wishes and does not belong to the Minister's prerogatives. It is the Minister's duty to work legislation and parliamentary control. Therefore, we have also proposed to the new agency that, in some ways, measures be taken on this matter, because it is indeed a matter and it will be transferred to the Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u104	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u105	Here, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u106	Mr President, thank you very much for clarifying. I've heard Mr. Voutsi say that. And you are right, and the Bureau as a whole, but I raised another matter. The workload really needs to be handled, as you say. But here, he said he was missing abroad and he was here. He's lying here in front of our eyes. What do they think? That the National Representation is their house, is their courtyard? They come and say what they want? You remember, because you are an old parliamentarian that even when the MPs asked and sent a State Secretary, there were storms in this Chamber from the Members' protest. This is where they're mocking the House. And you don't have to laugh, man! And you don't laugh! You're here because you're escorting a minister. Here's the National Representation, they're the representatives of the people. Minister, call him back to class with this insolence. Rescind him in class! There you are because a minister has you with a partner. You have no right to act as you treat your friends. Do you hear me?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u107	All right, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u108	Well, I repeat, you must handle this in a way, Mr President, according to the parliamentary order, which allows us to exercise parliamentary control by understanding the ministers for difficulties, for travel. Obviously they have other things to do and perhaps their agenda will not be postponed sometimes. I get it. I have been as well as you, Minister, and I know, but not to fool us in this way and show us by their presence today in the House that they do not care if they are making fun of us.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u109	As I said, this issue will be raised in the Conference of Presidents. And to make a request, not to comment on any Member asking anything, because he has the right to ask. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u110	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda for the INQUIRY Question No 8/7/2-2-2017 by the Members of the Union of Central Banks and of the Commission of the European Communities Marios Georgiadis, Dimitrios Kavalela, Georgios Katsiantoni, Anastasios Megalamoustakas, Theodoras Megaloconomou, Ioannis Saridis and Aristides Fokas, to the Minister for Migration Policy, on the extreme situation of the islands of the northern Aegean, due to increased migratory flows. Mr. Georgiadis has the right as first questions to speak ten minutes in protology and five minutes in denology. Mr. Saridis five minutes in protology and three minutes in denology. Mr. Katsiantonis, Mrs. Megaloconomou, the same, Mr. Fokas, and Mr. Cavalellas three minutes in protology and two minutes in denology. Immigration Policy Minister Muzalas on behalf of the Government can speak twenty minutes in protology, ten minutes in denology and five minutes in tritology. From the point of view of Parliamentary representatives, Mr Varvitsiotis will represent Mr. Megalamoustakas, Mr. Syrizas, Mr. Varvitsiotis, Mr. Varvitsiotis, the Democratic Assent of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Theocharopoulos, the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Katsotis, Mr. Kammenos and Mr. Potamis Lykoudis. Please, Mr. Georgiadis, you have the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u111	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you for being here to answer our question. Ladies and gentlemen, although I see that few of us have been honoured for now, we will see what is going to happen for 15 months, to begin with, our President Vassilis Leventis has been asked a timely question to the Prime Minister, but a voice of voodoo in the wilderness. We returned last November with our question to the Minister for Migration Policy, for which we have certainly received an answer, but unfortunately we have not seen any progress. In particular, the situation on our remote islands has reached the unprecedented. The specific numbers of refugees and the problem of numbers is also found in the text of our current question. Since the first period of your governance, you have unfortunately implemented the policy: we have 'opened and waited for you', without preparation and without any plans. A policy - and I am sorry for the expression - of the mess and, unfortunately, you are showing it to anything that you are suppressing as a government. There is no separation between refugees and immigrants. Your moto is "we are all revolutionaries", I wanted to say. And'rebeats' now, because we have heard of Venezuela and so on. And the Aegean, of course, belongs to its fish. A recent fact, which has been very saddened to us, is the unacceptable image of the Minister trying to enter the ghetto, which the government itself chose to create - and I am referring to the Greek one. For hours there have been people who have been begging various strangers to see whether they can enter the airport, or the territory of the Greek state. However, we really did not like this picture that he made around the world, starring the so-called "convergences" of the Government. Have you assessed the economic and political damage suffered by our country by the unprecedented statements by Prime Minister Tsipras in September 2015 that there are no borders at sea? How many thousands of immigrants are due to these statements clearly? How do you explain that the next month of these statements, in October 2015, saw the greatest mobilisation of poachers in a monthly influx of immigrants, a record of all the times, which amounted to two hundred thousand, eight hundred and twenty-four people? For the millions of real losses suffered by residents, businessmen and hoteliers on the islands, where will they be compensated? SYRIZA? Or are the 170,000, which you will answer, enough for the damage they have suffered? What about the other Aegean islands? Where also incalculable damage occurred? Is there a corresponding provision of compensation? I am tabling amendments to this effect, which have been signed by many of the ministers. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Marios Georgiadis, presents for the Minutes the above documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Mayors and local representatives ask us to find a solution to the problem. They are talking about a marginal situation and we know that they are dominating. Even about a month ago, the mayors of Chios, Lesvos, Kos and Leros met with Mr Tsipras and the President of the CEDEFOP, Mr Patolis. This meeting was not just fruitless, we can say it was disappointing. The Government has not made any commitment at all and has been content with general promises of decongestion on the islands through future development and social programmes. This state analgesia and a provocative lack of organisation are unprecedented things for a civilised Western state, as we want to be called. I'm making a report on it. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Marios Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We sincerely humiliate the fact that all these images of the camps are leaking through the international media every day. And what we did not see: snowy scenes with frozen children, an outbreak of serious crime in the camps, as well as people who really beg for a piece of bread. We have occasionally become the number one negative protagonist for Amnesty International. The international organisations are shouting at us and breaking through, inviting us publicly to stop the torture of refugees. Especially the period of the recent frost, reached the knot in the tennis. I put forward a report from abroad. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Marios Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Moments like the gas explosions in the Lesbos camp, where a sixty-six-year-old woman died and a six-year-old child offends us deeply, and I imagine you are sad about them. When you were in Antipopulation, all of SYRIZA Antipopulation, you went out to the bars and you protested about this whole situation. Now, we're really wondering if something's going on, not to say fatter, if your ear sweats. I'm making extra papers from the foreign press. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Marios Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned articles, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You will know, of course, Mr Minister, the National Committee on Human Rights, the independent advisory body of the Greek state. Her report in November 2016 on living conditions in the host and hot spots of the islands is a catapult. In particular, it refers to subsistence of primary and secondary asylum-seekers, political interventions in their operation, in problems as completely inappropriate conditions of refugee and migrant housing, insufficient access to clean water and safe sanitary facilities, which are already offered by non-governmental organisations with the Ministry and the Identifying and Reception Service, are usually absent, in poor quality food, in safety problems, in particular, in the phenomenon of many immigrants leaving without notice, and then granting it, indulging their shelter, in the existence of only one military, who is usually a doctor, for hundreds of thousands of people, while there is no paramedical staff. We consider all of this to be very serious, too. For all these complaints, we really would like the official view of the Greek state. Do you consider it honorable and satisfying that in all services the state is replaced by unknown non-governmental organisations? But the most outrageous, most unlikely thing is that various government actors find the right ground in this humanitarian crisis to do their so-called ruffles and increase customer relations. All this, in particular, with the European Union's money and resources. Of the bad and unexplained lenders, that is, all of you are supposed to hate. We just got astonished to learn that hot spots were appointed two and a half thousand people, but 80% is not going. And Mr Vitsas admitted and stated the unprecedented: 'If it were with my resignation that the refugee was resolved, then I would'. The total budget for this programme was EUR 17.5 million, of which 11 are from co-financed expenditure of the European Community Fund and 6.5 million from resources from the OAED. We are mocking, in other words, our partners and the Greek taxpayer, and we prefer to appoint people to increase our electoral clientele rather than to solve the humanitarian problems of refugees. They don't care, because anyway, they don't vote for us. Sounds reasonable. I'm making a report on it. [[At this point, MP Marios Georgiadis submits for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] And instead of showing a retraction, a contraction, a self-awareness of the inability to deal with such important issues, you're trying to step up. Mr Minister, a few days ago you told us, neither too much nor too much, that it was the hotel owners and opposition to the situation on the islands. And not just that. It's the mayors' fault. Everyone, that is, are traitors and everyone is trying to undermine your own work. I am making articles on your statements. [[At this point, MP Marios Georgiadis submits for the minutes the above-mentioned documents which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] This attitude - I am referring to the Government, not to you personally, to God! - it's not just unacceptable, but it's too irresponsible. While you have the knife and the melon while you rule, it's always someone else's fault who doesn't let you do your job properly. In other words, Minister, you say to us: 'Those who did not allow better conditions to be made were some very important factors, such as the mayors of local government, many members of the organisations of the New Democracy and the organisations of counter-population'. In other words, we may also have organizations as a Centro Association. We're a new party. Keep going. "What changed is that the hoteliers retreated. And they did very well. I don't want to fight with them, I don't want to talk about anything else. Hoteliers belong to another party." It's your statements. [[At this point, the closing bell of the honourable Member's speech hits a warning bell.]] Mr President, I shall also use the time of my dentistry. You see, unfortunately, all the issues of the humanitarian crisis, unfortunately, you are trying to put off responsibility above you and you are striving with unpopular rhetoric, but at the same time also to make rhetoric for your customers, as I mentioned before with the appointments and to get the maximum benefit of party. But where do you get it from? From the human shipwrecks? From the refugees and immigrants who are not only at risk, but who are also at risk from the unacceptable conditions created by the islands? We cannot leave the fate of refugees to the NGOs. It needs immediate central government care. There have also been reports of press reports and complaints about the strange role of some NGOs at times. Non-governmental organisations, international and Greek, have received funding in a non-transparent way of making this money available. You again show non-governmental reluctance and let perpetuate a huge problem. Not being able to control them is clearly declarable, but understandable. You are not generally renowned for your know-how, at least for your governance over the last two years, but not to interfere is incomprehensible for us. I also submit a relevant report. [[At this point, MP Marios Georgiadis submits for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] A lot of money has been given to NGOs. So much unjustified complaints about lack of medical care, decent housing, nutrition and elementary health, especially for vulnerable categories of refugees such as babies and over-aged people, are being made public. You have been asked many times about the financial control of the money received by non-profit organisations and you are constantly referring them to a European Union agency to get answers. At the same time, we have learned from you that after Easter the NGO register will eventually be ready and no organisation that will not be certified will be able to operate. But we don't miss certification. What we lack is constant control and necessary state care. It is not a question of NGOs taking an ISO-type protocol. The point is to show that you care in practice about the issue of their action, having their actions in effective and close supervision. We are not talking about a free market here, not a private sector. The competition rules do not work, nor do refugees have a choice between service providers. We are talking here about slapping European Union programmes and about Greek taxpayers' money, which are being directed to non-profit organizations. The Greek citizen demands that his wealth should not be dispersed and that he should not be resilient to the international media by the unacceptable practices of torture of refugees and immigrants. If you cannot control resources, if you cannot find solutions to the suffering of these people when the whole world is provided with acts to help, resign - not you, Minister, the government in general - and lead us to a government of wide cooperation so that they can take on technocrats who know how to solve this problem. Do not trouble us and expose our country to such important issues. But if we look at the side of our neighbors there, you see disappointment. The fact is that Turkey, despite the constant challenges - in the Aegean - has already come out of a post that was demolished - and has not become a great helmet - a helicopter near the Imia.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u112	He's been disproved.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u113	He's been disproved. Turkey, therefore, has shown its willingness to cooperate with the European Union, although we do not have confidence in it, and although we do not believe that what it stands for at the end of the day, but from the meeting with the Commissioner for Immigration Mr Avramopoulos and Turkey's Prime Minister Binaly Yuldirim, it seemed a completely different climate. The European Commission will present the new progress report on the implementation of the Euro-Turkish agreement on 2 March. I'm making a report on it. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Marios Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The European Union is fulfilling its obligations accordingly and it also has funds and intellectual resources and know-how to deal with the problem. While this is an international problem, unfortunately, the weakest link in the chain is the Greek state with the inconsistency we have and the black holes in economic resources. The current refugee and immigration crisis must be dealt with in agreement with our partners and the European Union, as well as with the Turkish side. However, bilateral contacts alone on this road do not help, because the agenda is from us, but at the end of the day they raise other issues. The centralists' solutions have been submitted for a long time to both the President of the Republic and all the parties: for refugees a smooth distribution is possible in the countries of the European Union. It is not a solution to alleviate within the rest of Greece, namely to dismantle the islands and drown all of Greece, the question is to go to the countries of destination. And for irregular immigrants, it is either necessary to activate their mechanisms for re-promoting them to the safe countries from which they entered Europe or to implement the humanitarian rules provided for in international conventions. However, it is important that asylum procedures should be speeded up. The Citizens' Counselor has denounced the timeless and unacceptable procedure for years. Let's go on red tape one more time. I'm putting it on the site. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Marios Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Refusing a refugee to take the rightful asylum means two things: first, he is trapped in our country waiting for the outcome and, secondly, he is doomed to live in unacceptable conditions in the camps because he cannot plan his life in the meantime waiting for the answer from the Asylum Service. Refugees feel literally hostages of the Greek state, and even we often see incitement phenomena in detention centres precisely because they are indignant. At this point I will mention something impressive that we discovered by studying statistics from the Asylum Service. The statistics relate to the period up to the end of January that passed us. The ages at which the highest percentages of asylum applications are rejected in the course of proceedings (a) in the year 2016 are as follows: First, the age group of zero to thirteen years by 83% and, second, the age group 14 to 17 years by 79%. That is to say, we are talking about categories of detergents and unacceptable decisions, as they are called, and those are the highest rates in all previous years. I abstain and cannot believe that the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, which is against the memorials and the left-wing political friends, is sending back to their homelands and to war infants and minors, and indeed many times they are unaccompanied. Surely, Minister, you have too many things to explain to us and I am sure you have answers about them. Unfortunately, the particulars are in a table - which I shall submit - and they have been issued by your service asylo.gov.gr. Unless it's not the government's. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Marios Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, and thank you very much for your tolerance. We have repeatedly stressed that it is required not directly, but yesterday, months ago, planning and the implementation of a special programme to reverse the image of our islands, to stimulate tourism, support the economy and compensation for local societies, which must be drawn up with the active involvement of the representatives of government I and II grades. The refugee and immigration problem will concern us for too many more years, if not for decades. And you know it very well. You have experience in this part and, unfortunately, we all have to do something together to solve it. We urge you directly to make use of both the European Union's resources and its know-how. Stop disposing of responsibilities from above, lay responsibilities on the municipalities and on the Opposition and be interested only in your small-party benefits. We must actually work, because we are talking about people who need decent treatment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u114	Thank you. Your prototype was ten minutes, your denology was five, we reached eighteen, so you owe us three minutes, Mr. Georgiadis. But that's not the problem. I would ask you, Mr Saridis, to stay in five minutes for the simple reason that you will not have time to answer. The ministers will speak and you must answer. When, in other words, you use time like this, you won't answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u115	Do not say this to me, Mr President, to me. To our rapporteur, let us tell them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u116	I'm telling you, because you're the second, I'm not personally addressing you. Mr Ioannis Saridis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u117	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, the framework in which our dear colleague, Mr Georgiadis, has moved was in what the government is doing. I will talk about how opposition has seen this problem, how Opposition has stood in general against this problem. I have recently had the opportunity to engage in a dialogue with colleagues of the German Parliament who, as you may know, visited our country to contact the Greek Parliament in the context of an investigation by the German Parliament in order to gather information on the refugee crisis. More specifically, they wanted us Greek Members to inform them of the answers we get from the government in the exercise of parliamentary control. Besides, they were also found in Greece in this context, as is the case with the Rules of Procedure in the German Parliament. I am pleased to see that no Greek colleague has been tempted to oppose the Greek Government. No one tried to blame our questions on the government, no one tried to put them to the government. For me this is the greatest proof that consensus on dealing with the refugee crisis exists and is strong among us, strong among the political forces of that country. Whatever we say to each other, when the time came, together with one voice, we said the same basic thing to our German colleagues who came from the German Parliament. No Greek Government could make it through itself against the problematic conditions that are inevitably created by the uncontrolled, improper entry of refugees and migrants into Greece. There is no party solution, the refugee crisis. Any solution will be and must be a unanimous, human, political national solution such as a national one - you said yesterday - is the refugee one. You said it here yesterday in this Chamber. In our country, in Greece, we are used to being politically eaten on a number of issues relating to the daily life of citizens, and often we choose to eat among ourselves from sitting around a table and finding a solution. The sadder, then, is the fact that we cannot agree on the simple, so hopeful and encouraging things that have never been allowed to happen in this country, the big issues, the big national issues. The Greek people and the refugee crisis have ranked on the big national issues, and on this issue, unanimously, requires that a solution be found. As we explain at every opportunity to our neighbors, gray zones in the Aegean do not exist. The Turkish occupation of northern Cyprus is illegal. Macedonia is one Greek. The Greeks of Northern Epirus are indigenous Greeks. That's what all the Greeks are talking about, with one voice. However, we must identify the common point, which all the Greeks agree, and it is about dealing with the refugee crisis. In my view, what everyone has understood in Europe is the following. Greece is patiently managing a burden, much greater than its economy can withstand, proving to be greater than it is and certainly greater than it has agreed. And while it is clear that no Greek government can manage itself what is happening in our country, you seem to be unable to make effective use of how all democratic forces within this Chamber support you. It may sound like a rival, but they support you on the substance. The government chooses to hide behind claims and repeats them every three minutes. It is our fault that either the Turks or the NGOs or Europe are to blame. But today we are asking you about what has to do with your responsibilities, the government's responsibilities. We care what you do, not what others do. So, the problematic function of either your Ministry or the other ministries continues and we are not convinced that you have done what can be done. We accuse you that there is no program and there is no design. We must respond clearly to some questions and I would like to hear your thoughts on these questions, Minister. Have you prepared a responsible plan to address the refugee crisis? Are you prepared for what we are very afraid of, perhaps, will come in a very short time? What will we do if all the others involved act irresponsibly or some of them continue to be irresponsible? What will we do if the weather opens blondely by Mr Erdogan and floods the Aegean? How much can the country stand, how many souls can we give shelter? How are we gonna do that? Have you come up with numbers? Do you have any answers, Minister? In my denture I will speak of an island of the Dodecanese that has been affected, the island of Leros. And there we have some questions to ask you and cheat us on them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u118	Thank you for the time too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended from the top Western theories, after taking part in the educational program "Research and we are discussing Governor Ioannis Kapodistrias" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty-nine students and students and three educational attendants from the 48th High School of Athens. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Katsiantonis has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u119	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, we are dealing with a matter which only national or local in nature does not exist. The refugee is spread across Europe, and it is for this reason that the European governments, with responsibility, should be involved throughout the whole range. In this context, we should not at all discuss the fact that it is a solution for refugees and immigrants to move from one point to another. This is because, if this starts at the same time, it will also jeopardise the agreement between the European Union and Turkey. Those who are involved in what is called trafficking, as long as an internal decongestion occurs, will immediately realise that they are coming to increase the flow of refugees from Turkey, as refugees will no longer be caught in one of the islands. In order to avoid this, I believe that the only essential proposal is to actually activate the agreement between the European Union and Turkey, firstly calling for direct staffing to staff needed to register and process asylum applications. From that point on, for those who receive asylum, the process of relocation to Europe will begin. At the same time, the re-propulsions to Turkey should be started, provided that the re-promotion relates to a refugee-migrant for whom Turkey is considered a safe country. Otherwise, unfortunately, the problem will continue to grow. On the same basis, although, from another dimension, we have recently made proposals from Amnesty International available to the European Union and its Member States on this subject. The Member States must move urgently from the Greek islands to other European countries through family reunifications or through a humanitarian visa. They must strengthen Greece immediately and adequately with funding and logistical support in order to ensure a decent reception of those who arrive on the Greek islands as well as the timely, complete and fair treatment of asylum claims. It must be activated for those who arrived in our country after the signing of the European Union-Turkey Agreement, their relocation programme with Turkey's simultaneous compliance. The procedures for the rapid family reunification must be strengthened to ensure the immediate reunification of family members who are caught in Greece with close relatives in other countries of the European Union. Asylum must be provided to those who are applicants for humanitarian aid and are in urgent need of special assistance. Ladies and gentlemen, we all know that if the situation continues in this uncontrolled landscape, then we will be faced with landscape in the mist. Our country's problem is a problem for the whole of Europe. And finally there it will erupt if all European governments continue their tactics 'I don't care if they take fire at the neighbor's house, I save mine'. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u120	Thank you, too. Mrs. Big Housekeeper has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u121	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen. You have, Minister, an easy answer to the immigration issue that concerns not only Greece but also the whole of Europe. So I will not ask you questions on issues relating to European solutions, but on management issues for which you are solely responsible. I'll focus mainly on the island of Lesvos. It's very well known. We've known since antiquity, he's also made a famous poet, Sappho. It's very well known worldwide. Lesvos is one of the islands that has experienced great, scary changes because of the refugee crisis. It currently hosts about four and a half thousand refugees and immigrants. Some of these people remain in Moria's known camp until they are identified and applied for asylum, while a large number of refugees are being held on the island without any prospect. One big issue - I stress it to you - is the extremely slow procedures for identifying and applying for asylum. The asylum service on the island - which I visited - is subordinated and which results in people staying for up to ten months in prison until their request is examined. And not only this, in the last two months, Minister, the contractors of your Ministry who have been working on the island remain unpaid and proceed to protest. Are there no money to pay their wages? No, there are. The reality is even more morbid. The Immigration and Integration Asylum Programme 2014-2020, through the European AMIF, will absorb around 53 million, part of which is available and therefore the payroll of the contractors is covered. The problem that has arisen, Mr Minister, is that you have neglected, indifferent and have not defined responsibilities. At the moment, there is no duly authorised official to release their payroll money. Can you not have arranged for any employee to release their payroll? That is, once again the Greek bureaucracy in all its majesty will destroy everything. The question I ask you, Minister, is this: When will you define competences? What if those employees, who pay rent, have expenses to live where they have gone, decide to proceed to strike? Unfortunately, I am obliged to remind the House, but also the Greek citizens, that five people have already lost their lives during this winter. This is the time of a premeditated crime, since everyone knew and saw the tragic conditions in Moria. Everyone - and above all the Ministry - knew that Moria was not properly organised to accommodate these people at these low temperatures, and even when EMY provided evidence that we would have the heavy winter and weather that we did not expect. And not just that. You received warnings, Minister, from the Mayor of Lesbos, Mr Spyros Galenos, who had informed you in writing - and you and the Prime Minister and the Minister of National Defence - of the situation that existed. And you closed your eyes. I'm putting down the questions about the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Theodora Megalonikou, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So I ask: why did you not take all the necessary steps in time and left people to their fate? Just a few days ago you were committed - retrospectively - for some rough solutions and patches. Meanwhile, the island has been living in turbulence for two years. I spoke to the local authorities, the mayor, the ordinary inhabitants of the island and everyone feels that their government has abandoned them. Apart from the well-known incidents of pettyfts that have described us, what concerns them is that the image of their island has changed. In other words, they have changed so drastically the things that live every day that the inhabitant is afraid. First of all, they talked to me about the conflicts between the refugees, who are circulating and free. Tourism in 2016 also decreased by 40% -45%. Next year may be more. These people live with tourism. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm not gonna catch up with you. I ask you: what actions will the government and your Ministry take to support tourism, the economy and the society itself on the island? Society cries to save her. I fear that the humanitarian reserves will eventually be exhausted. The island is discredited every day, the inhabitants are angry and the situation is getting worse. And the blame, Minister, is all yours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u122	Thank you. Mr. Fokas has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u123	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, although you're not here, you've achieved a little miracle. You have succeeded in joining the voices of five mayors of the northern Aegean, who have intermittently opposed political payments. In a joint memorandum a month ago to the Prime Minister, where they describe in black the situation, which has been created, they have shown that more than any party separating lines there is common love for the place, common anxiety, common problems. And in order to alleviate the debate, I would like to say that 'Musalas unites'. I'm here to convey a clear and concrete message, the message that Samos crossed its limits and can't stand it anymore. He can't stand any more pressure, he can't bear a new burden, he won't accept any more promises. The Samians filed their credentials. More than a hundred thousand refugees have passed through their place and the Samites have stood by them, they have helped them, they have shown a great deal of love and humanity. I would remind you, in fact, that the island of Pythagoras is the only thing that fortunately so far had no incidents, and we had no appearance of extreme circles that exploit chaos. We didn't have the sad images, which unfortunately appear elsewhere. But the knot has arrived at the comb. Local society has become mad at the absence of the state and is asking for self-evident. They want - and we want - improvement and immediate decongestion of hosting structures. We want to speed up the asylum procedures. We want human living conditions for refugees, particularly care for unaccompanied children and vulnerable social groups. We call for full control of all NGOs on the island, and respect for residents' property. The evidence is revealing. According to a recent study, prepared on behalf of the North Aegean Region, charter arrivals for 2016 decreased by 23%. Apart from the reduction in arrivals, France and Poland came out of the markets completely. Mr. Muzala, do you know that 85% of GDP is based solely on tourism? Have you wondered how these people on the island will live? And the worst is that the people of Samos, like all the inhabitants of our islands who raise this cross of refugee, only receive understanding and promises. Until when, Minister? I would remind you - because you obviously also have a weak memory - that in October 2014, in the absence of a comprehensive national plan to deal with the crisis, you signed a large government conference on a roadmap for more effective management of the refugee, where you committed yourself to taking concrete measures to remedy injustices against the Samites. Your only disagreement has to do with the proposal of the Mayor, Mr. Angelopoulos, on the need to create a closed housing structure within the existing one, which I personally do not understand, as obviously the mayor knows much better than you the issues of maintaining order on the island. However, four months after nothing at the time you committed, it has not been done. Samos also revealed the total incompetence of the government in managing the refugee flows. The black truth, Mr. Musala, is that the inhabitants of the islands of the eastern Aegean feel the absence of the state, which threw them away from the tide of the suspension of the VAT increase, not as a logical consequence of the implementation of a national island policy, but because of the refugee. Samiots, Minister, like all the islanders, feel that they belong to a special blockade zone and that it's a storeroom of souls. This is disgraceful and disgraceful for a European country. I invite you to look at them in the eyes and take those initiatives that prove by actions and not by words that they are not Greeks second class. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u124	Thank you. Mr Cavalellas has the floor. The Rules provide for you, Mr Cavaldela, three minutes for your prototype and two minutes for your denology. If you want, we can make it five.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u125	Thank you, Mr President. I'll be very brief. I also do not want a second. There are high refugee flows, which have created a huge problem and a crisis on our islands in terms of tourism. I am referring, of course, to the islands of the northern Aegean. Not that we have many other problems in the rest of the country, but because of the time I do not wish to mention them. However, there is a huge government responsibility. Of course, the Prime Minister's view is that the Aegean has no borders, the sea has no borders. Ask the mothers, the wives, the children of our pilots, who have given their lives to the Aegean that has no border! Let's go down. You closed their eyes. We are here, you can go to Europe, we are a left-wing government, we have another culture. The traffickers of these souls soon understood this and organized a catastrophic passage, both for us and for them, because many children, many women, many of the refugees drowned. This is your responsibility, because you showed them the cheese, but they did not see the lightning. You showed, of course, and great tolerance to these NGOs who organized their shops there and created situations that were static both in northern Greece and in the islands. However, for example, I shall refer to some figures. On average in 2015, compared to 2014, the hotel nights of the islands in general, of the north Aegean, decreased by 18.75% and the number of visitors decreased by around 22% to 23%. Prices also fell by 12.5%, because people were forced to sell as much as they would not be destroyed and the length of stay was reduced by one day. Also, it was paid by the employees. In hotel businesses employment decreased by 5.26% and hotel costs increased by 5.66%. These go together. So it's rising costs, we're kicking out staff. It is estimated, therefore, that the mid-term fall for 2016-2017 will reach 40.63%, which is a number, which if verified, will completely destroy our tourism. A reduction in the number of visitors is therefore planned at around 43%. And the thing runs from evil to worse. We have two islands, which have taken all the weight: Chios and Lesvos, where during this year's travel season the traffic has fallen by 60%. The problems that have been created will probably be irreparable. Let me just talk about Chios, because I have some special and immediate interest. According to the President of the Association of Hoteliers Mr. Fenoudakis, the arrivals of tourists from Europe amounted to two thousand two hundred and twenty-six. This is about charter flights, etc. This is the 1/10 of previous years, that is to say it has been reduced to 1/10 there. Of course, all the charter companies left if there is no interest, so that the Dutch and all the other North Europeans would find other platforms. And that's because the picture is given to anyone who goes to the island, that it's not an island of recreation, but a hell of a soul. When someone leaves somewhere and is served by somewhere else, whether he is a ordinary citizen, a tourist, or a tour operator, he will be permanently left on the other island. He will say: "I saw a very nice island called tweezers and I had a very nice time". So this island is always deleted as a place of destination. You also made a nice gift to the Turks, the VAT that you brought him up. At the service of residence while we took him to 13%, as if we were the only place, Turkey took him down to 8%. I'm just finishing up with a question. I will not talk about other short-term consequences. But the more we close our eyes to illegal refugees, the more we risk rekindles, because all Asia and all Africa wants to come by Greece. We are going to be completely closed down by the North Europeans and stay with us and we are going to be refugees. There must be some way to organize and discourage them. The question concerns your intentions. What do you intend to do about the reversal of this image created to the future tourists, especially the islands of Chios and Lesvos, which have the highest burden? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u126	Thank you. Mr Megamoustakas, you have the right to speak now for twelve minutes or if you want to listen to the other parliamentary representatives and to speak last, for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u127	I will speak after the Minister, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u128	Good talk after the Minister. Minister, you have the floor for 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u129	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not understand. I do not understand exactly what you have defended, what you have proposed. Nothing. I took a question which I thought was positive, I considered it inevitable, I considered it justified. It has the mistakes that any question can have - three minutes from my speech - the known ones: 'We have opened and waited for you', 'The border is unguarded'. Hungary says it, New Democracy says it. The European Union does not say it, but FRONTEX does not say it, and NATO does not say it. Even those countries that were at the Austrian meeting, pointed to the diversity between the maritime borders and the others and said that we are protecting our borders as much as we can. There is no separation of refugees and immigrants. When eight hundred thousand came in six months, apparently you couldn't make such a separation. Unless you think you could have eight thousand arrivals every day just sitting there separating yourself. If you think that can be practically done today why is this separation not possible? Because there is a phenomenon in the science of immigration called 'violence of asylum'. Whoever comes is applying for asylum. From that point on, the request for asylum must be dealt with in order to end up being an irregular social, illegal legally immigrant or refugee. Greece is working under International Law. It does not judge the Minister or the rapporteur from the Association of Centres or from New Democracy or from anywhere else with the eye whether he is a refugee or an illegal immigrant. If you propose to get out of International Law, make a proposal. You say we're late. We're not late. Your will and mine would be to be done automatically. They can't! In Germany, with the best asylum service, it takes seventeen months. You'd like it to be a weekend. So am I. But it's not because you and I want to. The mayors are begging us for a solution. I've worked with them eighteen months. The mayors were wrong. I didn't say they were either liars or racist. They've got the wrong idea. Based on this mistaken assessment, as on the basis of your own mistake, one can say things that sound well but feed populism. And that's what happened to the islands. We'll talk about this later. You mentioned the images of the camps. What images are you talking about? What do you compare it to? For example, you say about the picture in Petra Olympus, which dragged our country across Europe, that it is a camp within snow and colds. And then it turned out that fifteen days before the camp had been empty and everyone was in hotels. We'll talk about the islands separately. It's an opportunity for ruffles. Say it! I will tell you something I have said before: I am not prepared to change the legal system of the country, to prove my innocence. Prove guilt. Say what the ruffles are - one, two, three, four, five - otherwise, come here and make reasons. There's no point in talking like that. You spoke about a smooth distribution of refugees in Europe. We're totally in agreement. But they disagree in Europe. How do you imagine we can do this? They won't accept them. What do you suggest we do? Should we leave Europe? Should we take them somewhere else where they don't take them? Do you have a suggestion? We have a suggestion. We are fighting it in Europe. And with this proposal we have already achieved 12 000 relocations in Europe. Two months ago we signed a new join plan that says about two thousand relocations a month. The others don't accept them. You don't know the matter. You say that those who come to the islands and get asylum should relocate to Europe. The Europe-Turkey Agreement does not allow that. This agreement allows two things: either it does not get asylum and returns to Turkey or takes asylum and stays in Greece. Do you want us to impose this on Europe too? I'd love to, too, but I don't know how to tell you how. If you have a proposal, make it. Otherwise, as they say in Catholic marriages, 'whoever has nothing to say, be quiet.' Because here's no TV. It's pain here, it's mud, it's hard here. Let me speak, however, on the basis of the question, which goes on from a logic. I think I may blame one of the speakers, but your speeches do not match the question. It's a positive question, inevitable and justified. It gives the opportunity to clarify things. You're making mistakes. We all make mistakes. They insinuate your estimates as facts and then, assuming that these are reality, you end up in other things. The title of the proposal is: 'Problems created by increasing flows in the Aegean Sea'. Are we serious? Do we have an increase in flows in the Aegean? In the Aegean Sea we had eight thousand every day. Every day the boats came out. I was there watching them. You weren't there. It was seven to eight thousand every day. The border's closed illegally. We fought to keep that from happening. You weren't there. We fought about it. However, they closed the border and got locked up. With border closure we fell from seven thousand every day to two and a half thousand every day. And then this government, the incompetent, was able to promote the Europe-Turkey agreement. It's not the best. It is neither our wish nor our desire for Mosul to fall from the jihadists and start this because it was not Mrs Christodoulou who brought refugees. Mosul has fallen. The jihadists took it. It was all Iraq's arsenal in it. And that's where the wave started. Another - you're afraid to name it - was receiving balloons, not SYRIZA's government. SYRIZA’s government was trying to welcome with dignity. Why do you say an increase in the flow? Who do you want to thank? The populists? The flows after the Europe-Turkey Agreement fell to sixty people a day. The attempted coup d'état took place in Turkey, which, in our view, created difficulties in the military and the coastguard and has since been steadily up to a hundred and ten people a day. Why do you ask a question about increasing the flow? Why do you make fear? Why without intent - I sincerely believe this for you - do you put water on populism? 'Since then little has been done in managing the refugee crisis'. You refer to the question of your Chief, your President, in December 2015. Truly, this incompetent government was unable to do anything. Eight hundred thousand people had the lowest possible impact within six months. Then they closed the border. Sixty thousand people were captured. The sixty thousand people - I repeat - on the basis of the rules of science and on the basis of European Union regulations are equivalent to five hundred and eighty thousand people in Germany. That's what that government did. Within three months, the disgrace of Idomeni was broken, not as it happened in Kale after seven years and wood and burning tents, but peacefully, in a way that will be taught in immigration tomorrow. It's never happened before. I've been to various IDs and Goods all over the world. It's never happened before. Do you know when she stopped? Initiation of proceedings: Bull. Starts of May, then, we met with fifty thousand people here, broken up with Idomen and what happened? We didn't see scenes in Victoria Square. We didn't see any cigarettes in Aristotle Square. There were no people coming out of the houses sleeping in the hayettes and in the stables. Why? Because within these three or four months we created fifty thousand hospitality places. We received a thousand and were condemned by the Council of Europe because from 2012 until 2014, governments had to make another thousand. They never made them. So they got into camps. What else did this incompetent government do? He recorded them all and recorded them all in a triple system. He recorded them on the basis of their entrance from the police. He recorded them on the basis of the asylum application. Finally, he recorded them and based on the NGO records that we collected in a file and we know who they are. It's never happened before. What else did we do? They're completely sanitaryly controlled. You know, when I come to Parliament I always know what to hear: 'Health bomb', 'unguarded borders', 'you called them', ideologies like that. They may be your ideologies. We have kept the health check fully. Do you think it's simple? Do you think it's random? That right now on camps inside, that we have immigrants and refugees and hotels, do we have a weekly health report, that no epidemic has broken out is a matter of coincidence, is it a matter of luck? We've vaccinated the children. Do you think it's random? We gave everyone primary and secondary care with the same problems Greeks have on it. Do you think it's random? Lack of plan? The kids are going to school. Do you think it's random? Is it a lack of a plan? And that's what happened in six, seven months after the problem was created, because what we are talking about today is not 2015, it's after Idomen broke up, after the borders were closed and after the Europe-Turkey agreement was made. What else did we do? Unaccompanied: Crying, words, bitterness, poorness. We received three hundred unaccompanied posts. Three hundred unaccompanied seats! We have created a thousand four hundred positions, and by summer we will have completely covered the unaccompanied ones, since the Europe-Turkey Agreement is in force. Is that random? Is it without a plan? Do structures suddenly come out on their own? Europe-Turkey Agreement and your eyes four! It's a very difficult deal. I didn't understand if you were in favour or against. It's a match, you can't just take the skirt. You'll get the jacket, too. Tayyer, it's the deal! And the agreement stipulates that those who enter the islands after 19 March stay there until the asylum is judged. If that's why you want us to refuse her, go out and say it! I'll say the opposite, but get out, say it! You can't be with the ranger and the officer. We can't make any tears without being able to suggest anything. They have escaped in the mainland - and I will talk about the islands - forty-five thousand people in hospitality that were not there and were created in these months. If you had gone to the camps, if you had an idea what we're talking about here, you'd see what progress we're talking about. If you had gone to Schisto eight months ago and went to Schisto yesterday, you'd know. If you had gone to the Diabetes - I think a colleague of yours went and was very much counted on what he said, because he went - you would know what we're talking about. If you had gone to Kavala, you'd know what we're talking about. Thessaloniki, we had objectively loaded it - and I have discussed it with this wonderful Mr. Djijikota and with the exceptional mayors - we went there 60% of immigrants and refugees to achieve the break-up and you know today, six months later, how many will Thessaloniki be staying? With seven thousand, 12%. Is that random? Are these "fits" made by an incompetent government and I just record them and come and tell you? And that's not what I'm telling you, I honestly think most of you know it, you're coming to opposition, which always leads to SYRIZA falling and Muzalas resigning. The most polite of you, because I am in front, say "Let the entire government resign, not to say that only Muzalas resigns". For the first time, therefore, this incompetent government has handled an issue that has never happened historically before. It's even different from the Miratians' refuge. He's got completely different evidence. And he handled it successfully, not without mistakes, but successfully. Do you want me to remind you, when we didn't know what the way was in Greece, what the deal was? "Brooms"! They went in, didn't know who came in, who didn't go in, others were recorded, others weren't recorded, things arrived at the abundance, taking the squares, peeing at people's houses, dying in the stables. There were ten brooms, do the same again! The government of SYRIZA is very proud that this in Greece has abolished and asked for your help, all sides of the democratic arch, so that what we have succeeded in surviving, because what we have achieved is needed by the Greek people and also by immigrants and refugees. But in this, I did not understand your attitude. Sometimes you cry for them and sometimes you want them in jail. Sometimes you do that and sometimes it's your fault. Honestly, I think the reason should be clear. Let's go to the islands. The islands didn't go well. I've said that since September. And the government said it since September. Since August we have drawn up a plan to deal with the situation on the islands, which we notified the Greek people. We didn't keep it secret between us. The plan provided for what you asked for in your question: improving living conditions. You know, to do this, we need to find a place suitable. When in a place that is for eight hundred, there are a thousand two hundred, the only way to improve living conditions is to get the next or another estate, paying, I'm not saying free. We also said that pre-experienced centres should be built on the islands, with another logic, not on the basis of the principle of the administrative misconduct, which is being placed in a pre-experienced centre in detention, but on the basis that, as it has been shown, asylum should be effective, it is necessary for some of them to be detained because they are disappearing. Rejective decisions come out and we can't find them, we can't get them back. Do you want us not to return them? Say it. We also said about decongestion. Of course we did the decongestion. We have moved from the islands, from August to now, over six thousand people. We have done so and we continue to do so in a way which forbids Turkey from machinerying something to suppress the agreement. Are we doing okay or not? Do we or do we not want the deal? We want it. If the agreement falls - here is the monstrous lie, the monstrous mistake - it is not that the islands will have no refugees - you say that in a magical way we take them all - but that they will have seven thousand a day or two and a half thousand a day. Say it. What exactly do we want to do? So I want to tell you a few more things. That's not what we asked. Why wasn't it? For in my view - and I continue to stress this - a populism has passed in which the opposition parties were involved. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Anastassios Kourakis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] In Lesvos there were rallys against Lesvos' muslimism. Are we serious? Lesvos was released under the law in 1923. It hasn't been Islamized all these years. Are you afraid that your faith and homeland will change it three, four, five thousand refugees and immigrants? Is that your trust in the nation - as you say - or in the homeland - as I say - in religion, in faith? Has it been preserved for hundreds of years and will it be disrupted by five thousand immigrants and refugees? What can I tell you? Let's go work like this! Asylum Service: In the islands we put what we promised. We have the Asylum Service we need. What don't we have? We don't have the reservation, because they don't give us room, and we don't have the people we need from EASO. We have asked, made complaints, sent letters. Be careful, because in my dentistry, I'm going to testify all this. Let's be more crowded. They haven't come yet. There should have been another hundred case makers from the asylum and a hundred translators. There's only seventy-six case makers. Upgrade hospitality structures. When after death, the hotel owners - very well doing - gave us hotels, we started work on the plans we had to upgrade existing places. Before how would we do it? How would the machines get in a camp with two thousand people? We're gonna get them out, let them go, like happened in the past few years? As soon as it's done, work started. The hot spot in Mytilini will be ready within ten days. Samos will be ready in twenty days. At Kos, it'll be ready in a month, a normal pre-retirement center. Before how would we do it? Let me tell you something. I want you to think about it very seriously. It is a great burden, not guilt, but a great pity, the death of these three people and not five. Make a sum of cases. A child who died of cystic fibrosis in Richona, you add it to others. The others with the gazettes are a heaviest grief. But why did we love them after they died? Because when they were alive, you didn't love them? Why when this monstrous announcement came out in the history, which said that the Hotel Association forbids its members from giving rooms to refugees and immigrants, did not one report it? I denounced it, and I come in here every time. If that had been done in Germany, you would all say 'Racism' and so on. You can't have them all well. Nor was Amnesty International denounced by other organizations. No one denounced her. No one denounced her. Only the National Agency for Human Rights. Neither did the High Authority denounce it. How are these things going to be? Complainting. How is that possible? This has never happened in Greek history. When they refuse to go to school, you all run there - thank God, not all of them, but of all parties I have to confess - to help go to school. This is where we've all had the duck, probably not all of us. The government said so, I denounced it and I say it again today, which means new attacks against Muzala. Explain to me how it's going to happen? How are we going to make the spaces? How are we going to keep them in custody so that we don't get any trouble and move on with the asylum, and in such circumstances that we can do as best for them? You don't have any answers. The answer is "Get them to Athens, bring them to the mainland" at the expense of the Europe-Turkey Agreement. I'll give you two more clues, because in my dentistry I'll have less time. The Asylum Service is currently being blamed and really in the face of this large volume and the abuse of asylum cannot respond. It will take a long time to set up Europe for non-respect of visits. Nevertheless, in these circumstances it has succeeded and we have seven and a half thousand immigrants, who voluntarily - which means a process at the Asylum Service - have been returned to their countries of origin. We have ten thousand relocations, relocations to the countries of Europe, which are also a process of the Asylum Service and without this service - which we have reached the seven hundred people - we would not have had. Is he sufficient? Oh, no. Is it supposed to get better? Yeah. Let me tell you something else, why you're being exposed. There is no unaccompanied child returning to Turkey. If you read your lists, you will see that it refers to cases that come out because they are Dublin cases, family reunion. We also have four thousand eight hundred people for family reunification from this same asylum office you denounced. There's no need for complaints. Come and study the subject, see what we're going to do, find solutions. There are no magical solutions. You can't get along with everyone, and you can't solve the problem like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u130	Thank you, Minister Ioannis Muzala. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, forty-six students and students and three educational sessions from the 2nd General School of Chania. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] To inform students and students that they are attending the parliamentary control meeting. As you know, the House performs two main tasks. One is to legislate and the second is to exercise control by Members of all the parties in the government. One of the forms of control is the process that you are following today's question, where a party is tabling a text, the Minister responsible comes in and answers and is given the floor by the parliamentary representatives of the other parties. Today, a question has been tabled and debated by seven Members of the Centro Parliamentary Group on the immigration issue, which has been developed. The Minister for Migration Policy answered this, Mr Ioannis Mousalas, who just came down from the Vima. Parliamentary representatives of the parties will continue in the order in which they are to be represented. Those who have tabled the question have more time, while others are less. So we continue with the Parliamentary Representative of the Union of Centres, Mr Anastasios Megalamustakas, who has the floor for twelve minutes. Here you go, Mr. Big-fashioned, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u131	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to reply to the Minister, but I will wait until he enters the Chamber, as I imagine he will come back sometime. We are here not to make cheap opposition but to improve the situation. I am sure that neither you are satisfied with the SYRIZA from how exactly the stream of correction or problem-solving is taking place on the refugee issue, and that is why we are here. We believe that our opposition has a positive sign in terms of improving the issue. We are a party which is not in favour of populism. Our positions are hard, and that's why we've been judged by the world. We are not in any way pluralising and I do not want to mention what you have said previously and what you are saying now, not only about refugees but also about refugees in general. We all know exactly what's going on. Right now, the refugee suffers on six axes. First of all, he suffers from economics. A lot of money has come from outside for the refugee, about a billion euros - you know that - and there are unpaid officials at the Asylum Service. I'm sure you know that. There are funds that have not been used by the institutions. All this is happening in a context where so far, until the bill you brought, NGOs have done what they wanted and have really caused public opinion. You know that very well. Unfortunately, there are shortcomings everywhere. I'm not saying you're magicians or anyone else is a magician and you could have a stick to fix everything. But this wave of eight hundred thousand people has been through for a while. We must not be reassured that we are going well. Enemy of good is always the best. We didn't plunder either. In fact, much of what has been said has not been said exactly as the Minister has said. The other axis in which we are suffering is the delay in the processing of applications. And you know that very well. We could go even faster. In Lesvos, where the service works six days a week, they average seventy with eighty decisions. Isn't that right? The rest of the islands, why isn't it the same? I'm sure he needs extra staff. We see that continuously in the bills you bring, there are improvements, but eighteen months later. Eighteen months isn't a short time, it's a year and a half. We have problems and various issues with safety. You've seen pictures of what's going on. This is mainly due to the unacceptable conditions that have improved, Minister, I see that you have returned to the Chamber - but there are security issues. We're not making it out of our minds. They're not images that we imagine and we draw on a paper and we show them. The other level, which we need to improve, is the questions of interpretation. There are too many such problems. We have visited camp and structures and we know this is happening. For vulnerable groups, such as unaccompanied groups, I think there should be an additional arrangement. When we talk about unaccompanied children, we know that some of them are sixteen to seventeen years old. We've seen that there are violations. The children of this society, who grow basically through war, are completely different attitudes from ours. They are not considered minor in their society. There should therefore be a more specific treatment. I'm not saying you're doing everything wrong. We're just asking for the best. It's been eighteen months, as I told you. The asylum function does not work as it should be. For what you said that Europe does not accept them, I would like to ask you a question in good faith. You told me that Europeans don't want to. The day before I read an article saying that in Barcelona near the sixty thousand people were demonstrating why they were asking for refugees. This is where I want you to explain exactly what is going on, because I cannot understand it. So, a hundred and sixty thousand people come out in the square, with an inducement from the mayor!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u132	You expect an answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u133	I'll wait. I'm just testifying what's happened. It's something you need to explain to us and we'll wait. You talked about decongestion of the islands. It's done. But how do you do it? I am in favour of Mr Katsantonis' position, according to which it is not a solution to move these populations from one place to another in Greece. However, something that my fellow people are asking me and they are asking the mayors of regions - and it is a reasonable question, which I would also like to ask you really well - is why right now from the sixty-five thousand refugees in southern Greece is only a hundred and sixty. This, along with the sloppyness with which we have faced some problems, with the lack of any necessary measures that we have not taken, unfortunately, creates a disparity, a rivalry between regions. So I ask you, and I ask you to answer me. Another problem that all societies, which currently have a population of refugees, are that there is no consultation between the actors in the country. I also have a personal example from my prefecture, the Serres, where the mayor and the district manager knew no more than two days before they came. I believe that people, who know their place, know what the conditions are, what the culture is, what people's mentality is, would be very helpful with a simple debate, with a simple word. This has happened. With the Mayor of Kos you consulted, who told me that you were working unilaterally. You told me that some - I listened very carefully - of the mayors are wrong. I think it's your fault that you don't sit down and explain to them what's right and you're just deciding. Because they might even be wrong. I'm not absolute. But your obligation is to explain to them what is right, because otherwise we sow discord. I want to report on the island of Kos. The island has a large number of refugees. The problem of local institutions and citizens is that there is no consultation. We know that the island of Kos is based on tourism. At the moment it is the third island as a destination for tourists. In fact, there is also a municipal council that will be held for the new closed centre you want to make on 28th of the month, where I think they will give an opinion against its creation. I want you to explain why you're making this move and why you don't explain it to local bodies.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u134	But what do you think? Do we have to?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u135	We're asking you and I'll tell you in my denture. I want to hear exactly what you're going to tell us. That's what the mayor asked us to do. And, indeed, I want - because I am asking you in good faith - to tell us why you do not improve the previous structure, which is not the one that should have been, in order to have the closed centre there. They really fear not to bring any more refugees and become an island full of people who, unfortunately or fortunately, are not appropriate to the image I would like to see, given that this is an extremely tourist island. You understand - and I do not want it to appear that I plunder - that it is not appropriate to have such images of people - we will not hide them, but we will take care of them - in such a tourist place. We are not against the agreement, nor do we want to throw it. But we believe that we should strive constantly to improve conditions and conditions. We never asked - and we actually don't care - for the government to fall. Really! We are interested in the country going up, which I think is the question of every Greek. The Greeks have shown that we are a hospitable people. Of course, there are always exceptions. There are some people who don't keep up with what they should. They have their views which, in my view, do not express in the right way. But the Greeks have shown who they are and how they welcome these people. I think if you had and followed the right practice, and you'd be well informed and informed about what's going on, things would be different. Because we saw what happened and the question I asked you in October. You told me that the camp of Serres would be ready in December. But it's not ready yet. Of course refugees have moved to hotels and are no longer in the cold, as it was. They really suffered until the move is done. You may not have the right information and, indeed, the centres are much. But it's your responsibility to regulate everything. Unfortunately or happily, this must be the case. We are, in fact, asking for better conditions. That's what we want to do. I do not consider it to be populism, to submit here through our own words what images are carried into society, what complaints are made by people and what ordinary citizens think. We have never turned to this solution. I'll wait to hear your answers, and I'll be placed in my denture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u136	Thank you to the Parliamentary Representative of the Association of Centres, Mr Anastasios Megalomustakas. The floor is for six minutes, the parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Ilias Kamatos.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u137	Thank you, Mr President. Since the last speaker and my dear colleague referred to Kos, and I live in Kos, I hope I do not get carried away and consume my position on these issues, despite the fact that this example is representative and through this we could discuss all the questions raised. I really believe that the criticism made by my colleagues in the Centro Association is a good one. The first speaker raised a number of issues to which I think the Minister replied and which are being followed up and which we should overcome. And the fact that it is no longer the right-wing agenda, is something we should be careful about. Be careful, I repeat the 'right-wing agenda'. In other words, we have opened our arms, there are no borders, as we have said, etc. That is what I think has been answered many times. This is something we should be careful about, although in general I wanted to raise this issue. So who puts the agenda? He has to worry about us. Because the Central Association is holding a stand - it was said in the previous debate we had with the Prime Minister - against them, and on some issues from here - on some issues from there - yes reasonable - but to pay attention sometimes - to my opinion - because without wanting to do so, we can spread to opinions on an agenda put by some - and not just in our country, in Europe in general - who want to cultivate fear. And I know you don't have that intention. To prove it to you, I will ask you the following questions. Since the question was about the islands, it was not generally about immigration - I saw the question, I read it, it was about the islands - you know at all in the islands right now, what is the first problem? Should it be migratory? Should it be the refugee? Who put it and put it back on? Some who have specific goals and interests. We should - and we should come to an agreement - look at the real problems of the islands. Because migratory is a very big problem, it doesn't fit political specula, it's on its way. We're gonna make a judgment. And you know, criticism and pressure to the ministers are not the only ones who do. And if it doesn't seem, we're all SYRIZA MPs, and we're pushing them too hard, you know that. But we must also listen to the answers, the difficulties that exist, because if we do not know the whole package, the whole web of the treaties, we cannot criticise them. So I come back to the islands. Do you want to see what we have to do for the islands, for islands? It's not the first issue of immigration right now. To deal with it and put it aside, to manage it in such a way that it does not cause any problem on the islands, but it can also benefit them, and to highlight the humanism shown by islands throughout Europe and around the world. Do you know what the trouble is? Shall I start from VAT? The VAT was not increased in the islands, although we had voted on it since the summer of 2015. Come with us. This concerns the islands very much. It is a big case for islanders not to increase VAT. I was very upset, I was sorry to hear Mr Leventis this morning mentioning it as an example in confrontation with other regions, for example, when he said about the measures which the IMF is asking us to take, such as tax reduction, he says will benefit. The VAT on the islands was mentioned that it should not be lower on the islands. Let's get to it. Do we recognize islandity or not? Can we help and agree on health issues on the islands where doctors do not go? Will you agree to say that a doctor who goes to an island that has twenty-five, thirty-thirty-thirty-thousand inhabitants will get 3,000-4,000 wages to go? These are the problems of the islands. Go to a small island and see. He won't tell you about the immigrants, the doctor will tell you about the services, he will tell you, who has no tax, who should travel three days. He'll tell you about the ships he doesn't have, which he has to travel and lose one week to go from a small island downtown to serve. This agenda we should have in here and get to know each other. Let us not get carried away into an agenda that others put on us. And there are inconsistencies here with these positions in which you unwittingly fall again because the Right puts them. And, of course, I am thinking more of the New Democracy, which follows - more and more - on this agenda. New Democracy, when we talked about hot spots in the summer, we talked about centers, we talked hot spots after -- what did it say? They were split. Others went to other islands and said 'yes' and others said 'no'. Now Mr Mitsotakis has gone - because he saw the effectiveness in the operation of centres so far - and he says 'yes must exist'. It does not, however, come out of place for pre-repeals, but it puts on all the organisations of the New Democracy, all the bodies controlled by the New Democracy, to be burdened with the pre-repeals, which are pre-repellatoryly what are they?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u138	Is the Mayor of Ko New Democracy?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u139	Mr President, next year, please, I do not want to lose him.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u140	Mercy now with the mud you're throwing!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u141	You'll talk next, Mr. Varvichiotis. Go on, Mr. Kamaterre.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u142	I shall finish, Mr President. I said not to mention Kos, but because you are causing me for this and for you and for the Central Association. Mr Megalostas and colleagues of the Centro Association, when the Mayor of Kos visited you in 2015 and mentioned the fact, you asked, fully, adopting his positions without cross-checking them. Do you know what happened to this mayor's attitude in the summer of 2015, by not letting scenes stand on a field but left fifteen thousand immigrants on the beach and the town's parks, without water, toilets, without any care, summertime in August? This picture is the one that did the damage to Kos and paid her the year she passed. There have been huge efforts to recover. Immigrants didn't do the damage. Management has done the damage. And because they understood that the hot spot was created, despite the reactions, it worked because they see now that bookings in tourism are going very well, until doubled, we can go, because there is management, they put the issue back. I'll answer Mr. Varvitsiotis for the Mayor of Kos for the pre-experimental centre.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u143	Let's finish, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u144	I shall conclude with that, Mr President. We can't say on the one that we don't have security, we're afraid. You hear, Mr. Varvitsiotis, what the mayor says, we want to destroy, we've targeted the island of Kos. It's aiming to want good management. The Minister answered, but you will allow me very soon and I shall end with that, Mr President, to tell you about the pre-retirement centre.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u145	Very soon, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u146	Because I live and talk to the clubs. It's not like you said. Not all clubs are opposed. Many clubs are in favour, despite being blackmailed by the municipal authority. And it's in favor, because there are three categories at least that I've detected, which should be kept in an emergency center. The first ones are the offenders. You know why. The others are, the Minister said so, the ones who, when you invite them to give the answer, have disappeared. You want me to tell you that the day before yesterday was an invitation for a hundred and twenty, and there were two? Where did the others go? Not to remember here, Mrs Christodoulopoulos, who when she said they were missing her, we were mocking her. They really disappear. Aren't you supposed to find them? Do you want to return them or don't you want to? We can't say one more and the other. There is also a third charge, which, because they don't want, they don't have to be recorded, they don't go anywhere and you have to look for them, so you want - I don't like to talk to that language, but I'm ending with this - in Kos, Mr. Varvitiotis and Mr. Megalomustakas, go around the summer and look for them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u147	Thank you. We shall now proceed with the Parliamentary Representative of the New Republic, Mr Miltiadis Varvitsiotis. Mr. Varvichiotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u148	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I cannot comment on the Prime Minister's presence here today, who gave us lessons of patriotism and dignity. I wonder, really, how can Mr. Tsipras talk about patriotism and dignity? A "PM-Phantoms Prime Minister" who sneaks out, goes and meets the bankers in Paris without his ministers knowing about it, without public services knowing, a Prime Minister who has proved himself "yes in everything"? There is no red line that he has set, which he has not erased. The Prime Minister who brought the third and unnecessarily memorable memorial? Will the Prime Minister who mortgaged with his signature for four generations the property of the Greeks, give us lessons of patriotism? I think for one, Mr. Tsipras is capable of teaching lessons of populism, because nothing but him has nothing to learn. Today, however, this line of total refusal of reality should also come the Minister of Mr Mousalas, who told us that what he had as a key objective, namely the management of the situation on the islands, has failed. I will not speak of the eight hundred thousand and one million that passed in 2015, with the responsibility of the government that invited them, with the 'open borders' from our country. I shall refer to April when the agreements have been evacuated, since the islands, where no one has left the agreement and has had to deal with a situation since. And what is this situation? His condition is that everyone else is to blame except for him. It is the hotel owners' fault that it is the local officials of the New Democracy that it is because I have heard Mr Cameroon - the New Democracy which is not being closed in advance - what you are told so long to do, what you have been accusing us of building Dahau when we were running. You blamed us for Dachau.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u149	Do you agree to be on the islands of concessionality?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u150	We agree! We have been urging you for years now! For years now, Mr. Muzala!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u151	Do you agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u152	Minister, you'll be able to speak in a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u153	Will you finally open your ears? Will you take off your earplugs, so you can hear what you want? Everyone in the government hears only applause and does not listen to criticism. How many times have we told you from this step in all our public places, in the criticism of Mrs Christodoulopoulos, in all their ministers, SYRIZA, why don't you make closed pre-experienced centres so that they can finally stop this phenomenon? Did you read what Mrs. Tsirigotis, the Lt-Gen of Police, says in the " Sunday Kathimerini"? Did you read it? You read that when the Asylum Service yells at one of the loudspeakers, to come and receive the rejection of his appeal, and he doesn't show up, the police can't do anything, why does he have to spend six months? Do you have this legal vacuum to cover it? Why don't you cover it? Do you know that only four hundred and six illegal immigrants have been reintroduced to Turkey in the last six months? Why? Because from the rejection decisions of the secondary committee you are not finding them to serve them. You are losing them because this free-based regime works, the way you have created it. But you told us more outrageously, Mr Muzala, and I didn't expect it from you. I really didn't expect you to tell us that you have taken steps to protect the sea borders or rather you don't know what the government is doing. There are EUR 100,000 ready from European funds for the use of maritime border protection mechanisms. How much has the government absorbed? Zero! Zero! Anything that was compromised in that direction is the work of the Samara governments. Anything paid. The HRP with the Port and Police has developed an integrated system - Mr Dritsas knows it - and two more years now their technical specifications have not been put into public consultation. And you're telling us you're protecting the sea borders? You haven't done anything. No attempt to protect the sea borders. You told us that it was impossible to make the separation of'refugee' and 'immigrant'. You know that these procedures, the way in which they are separated, are subject to domestic law, not to international law. Germany has one-sided asylum committees, has no three-members. In your time, you have put them on your own legislative initiative. Look at the problems your policy has created and change the law. Change in the right direction. But the government cannot continue to behave by your face as a public prosecutor to everyone. It's always someone else's fault. It's the others' fault. Everyone's getting golden. Everyone's far right. Everyone is nationalists and racists. You're the only ones who are good, even when you confess to your misfortune and always every natural phenomenon you look at it with a surprise. The coming of winter was a natural phenomenon that was surprising to the government. He did extraordinary competitions and awards to buy stoves and heaters for hospitality centers, as if he didn't know from September that winter would come. Tell us about the inability to form - you had an ambitious attitude, and you were the first Minister - a Ministry of Migration Policy, which does not even have an economic address to make payments yet. There is no presidential order. That's why contractors are not paid. These are the administrative incompetences that are due to you. And it can't always be the thirds, for what you've never been able to do. It is not the third to blame, because NGOs have substituted the state. It is your fault because you have not created an institutional framework. We ask to know how they manage their money if they pay insurance contributions if they keep tax data in Greece. We're not getting any answers. We are asking to know the contracts with which all the centres operate and to send us philosophical texts for answers, without sending us a contract to all the questions I have submitted to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u154	But please, Mr Varvitsiotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u155	You went out and said it was because of the solidaritys for the mess in the Greek, in which I really felt sorry for you and I didn't understand why you had to make this failed show. Fortunately in the government they understood and gathered you in the last fifteen days and it's your first appearance after that failed performance. But who gave the solidarityrs the warehouse in the Greek - which is not a warehouse, is one of the most beautiful basketball courts in our country, filled with food, full of clothing, collected by all the residents of Attica - to manage it? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm closing, Mr. President. Did I give them the keys or did you give them them them? So who's responsible? You've been in power for a long time, and you've been in that position for a long time to always be blamed for what you've received. You have a responsibility to manage sixty thousand people with a billion euros, more than anyone has ever had at his disposal, because the previous government was getting crumbs from the European Union. So this exercise to manage sixty thousand people and 1 billion euros, that is to say, to be the mayor of a sixty thousand people with a budget of 1 billion, I believe that any factor of local government in the country would have made it much better than you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u156	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u157	We accuse you, Minister, we accuse your Government of being incapacitated in the management of the matter as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u158	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after being guided in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty-eight students and students and five educational attendants from the 3rd Marble School of Ioannina. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] To inform students and students that they are attending a Parliament meeting with a parliamentary control procedure. There is a debate on a topical question tabled by Members of the Centro Association. The Minister has spoken. The honourable Members have spoken. Parliamentary representatives are now speaking. The Parliamentary spokesman of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mrs.Ilias Kasidiaris will be here for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u159	I have asked the Minister for Migration Policy to remain in his place because I have a number of very important documents, very critical documents, both for the functioning of the state and for the functioning of the House and I would like the Bureau to listen here. The day started with a lie. In the Tsipra speech we heard that the Prime Minister responds to all the political leaders. Let me clarify that the Prime Minister responds to all political leaders except the Golden Dawn. The same is true of a large number of ministers. On the subject that is being discussed today, I have put a number of questions to the Minister for Migration Policy. I will mention, for example, the recent timely question I asked about virtual appointments to refugee accommodation structures. These questions are denied by a number of pretexts, which I regard as disgraceful and unacceptable, to be answered by the Minister in question. So in this question, which is directly related to the issue being discussed today, I refer to the two and a half thousand appointments in hot spots. And I ask: how much has the reception and establishment of refugees and illegal immigrants cost in the country in 2015-2016? How much money was spent by the state budget on this case and how much did we receive from the EU and how many hires were made in hot spots during this period? That's the questions. The Minister then sends me a document which calls me racist and refuses to answer. Does the Bureau consider that this is legal? So refusing a Minister to do his duty? Because here we have given an oath to the National Representation and to the nation and the Greek people to criticise and exercise parliamentary control. And it is a legitimate obligation for each Minister and the Prime Minister to answer all the questions of all the Members of all the parties. So here I read the excuse: 'It is noted that the term 'lathromatic immigrants' insults human dignity and is not accepted'. That's what the Ministry of Migration Policy says. For the Minutes, therefore, I reply with the regulations from the Official Journal of the European Union, number 610/2013 and number 118/14. Please for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Ilias Kassidiaris, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I would ask, if possible, that these documents be given to the Minister. The European Union is also officially using the terms 'lmmigration' and 'lmmigrants' in its official translation. But if the European Union does not make you out of the European Union and if you want to leave the European Union and you do not accept these documents, I present another official document of the Hellenic Republic. General Secretariat of the Prime Minister's Office for Administration and Organisation. This is a Tsipra document and says, "We send you a copy of a letter concerning the transfer and installation of illegal immigrants on a plot on Chios." This document is from Mr Tsipras to Mr Mousala, please. So the term "death immigrants" is used by your government. Please come to parliamentary control and answer the issues raised by the Golden Dawn, especially when we ask you how many rumours you have done, how many thousands of your people have appointed, in this story called hot spot. Of course, he is indebted to us for racism, but the statement "whoever does not like to stand up and leave", he says: "Whoever feels oppressed can leave", what Golden Dawn once said your own words are, when you were attacked in the Greek when the Minister of a State was hit. What kind of operetta state is this, where a minister goes to the place he has built to welcome refugees and illegal immigrants and takes fist and array? And we saw that in front of the camera. There was no arrest. We even saw a police officer get hit by illegal immigrants. We also asked the Minister for Civil Protection a question on this matter. We didn't even get an answer here about the attack of an Afghan foreign officer on a police officer. We have seen these images and we have heard you say 'who doesn't like to get up and go'. More racist your phraseology than our question how many ruffles you made in hot spots. It is a major issue of illegal immigration. The country is facing an asymmetrical threat. In very short time Greeks will be a minority within our country. I will continue to seek and demand answers to these key questions. And after I finish my speech, please, when the Minister receives the floor, tell me why he does not come here to give answers to the National Representation, no matter which party we represent, regardless of the ideological differences that exist. I want to read to you a few words - because this great director left - of the late Nicos Koundouros who said in 2011 and reminded me of what you did, which when you took the attack, you went out and said that whoever doesn't want to get out. Nikos Koundouros, who was honored by all parties and the Left and the Right, after he received an attack and attempted robbery at his home by foreigners, said: "The event made me see reality. I was saying then that we are children of the same land, people entering Greece, rejoice to feel security, eat, drink Greek water. From the time of the incident, all this teenage shit." That is what a great director said and they fully describe your ideas and how you face a huge issue concerning the future of the country. Because if in thirty years it is a majority within the country the Pakistani and Afghan knifeflies have gone and all Greeks have gone abroad, it is a matter of two generations to stop Greekism. So I have tabled a number of documents which I would like you to answer, in essence - and I would like you to explain to us at last why you are not answering questions relating to the course of our economy. There's no racism here. We're talking about how much money we gave for the illegal immigration. I have received an answer from the Office of Deputy Minister for European Affairs of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and I am tabling this to the Greek people. In 2015 alone, costs exceeded EUR 1.8 billion. That's a scary amount. This is a scary amount! In a country where the people are falling, where you do not give pensions, which you drink the blood of the private employee, of the worker and of the free worker, you say that they have been impoverished, 1.8 billion euros have been wasted in just one year, for 2015. And ask again now about 2016 and not accept an answer - he says - why I am a racist. What's racism? The fact that I do not want you to make rosy-fashioned assignments to hot spots, hospitality structures and all these systems that you have created, in order for the country to become a ghetto of foreigners. Because you can't characterize this situation otherwise. I'm too mild to characterize. When a minister enters the Greek and attacks him with kicks and fists and comes out the illegal immigrants and makes him this move - we have all seen that he did to the Minister how he will cut his throat - and no one is arrested, we are talking about ghettos, where there is lawlessness, illegality. This is why, of course, only a solution can be found with a national regime, only with one Golden Dawn government, as we have seen in other countries. It is not much from the reality of this picture that I am describing. Already President Trump in the United States has announced building a wall at the US-Mexico border. This is a very good move. It is commensurate with the actions included in the Golden Dawn program. Already Mr. Wilders in the Netherlands is expected to be the winner of the forthcoming elections. Ms. Lepen in France is scanning, it's gonna be first. Only a Golden Dawn government that enforces legality in this country and we won't share the Greeks' money. to appoint symmets to hot spots and to feed people who are criminal against our country. There will be a solution to this problem, which I say again is much more critical than the economic problem facing the country. Illegal immigration is the number one danger to our country's future and only Golden Dawn can give real solutions to this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u160	Before we proceed to the next parliamentary representative, we have two applications for a absence permit abroad. The Member, Mr Kasapidis, asks for a four-day absence abroad for a transition to France. The Member, Mr Georgiadis, also requests permission from a short-day absence abroad for the period from 28 February to 3 March 2017. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u161	The House therefore approved the requested authorisations. We move to the Parliamentary Representative of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR, Mr Athanasios Theocharopoulos, for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u162	Ladies and gentlemen, our debate is not empty. This morning we had the Prime Minister annulled all the government's last assurances that it would not vote in advance. All these reassurances, which concern the economic and social environment of the country, have therefore gone definitively, concern all areas of policy, just like the one we are discussing today. He formally confirmed that his Government accepted this year's preventive legislation for 2019 and to justify it he said that this is also the case in other bills. He said he made that decision, so he wouldn't take any diligence measures. The partners, in other words, asked him to legislate under a sect, to be implemented only if the objectives were not achieved and instead of counteracting this request, the proud negotiation led to the full and preventive legalisation of the measures. And, indeed, he tried to sell this today as a success. For the medium-term primary surpluses, for the reduction of pensions, for the tax-free limit, for collective redundancies, he said absolutely nothing. At the same time, delusions have now become definitive retreats, as they have said, has proceeded with concessions. Ladies and gentlemen, in this context, in economic insecurity in terms of evaluation, we are debating today the crucial issue, as we have done many times, of the refugee question. It is not a few times that we have debated topical questions from parliamentary groups about the refugee crisis, but also fragmentary provisions, amendments and bills on the refugee problem. Nor are there few times when, at our meeting with the Minister responsible, we have tabled concrete proposals for the management of the crisis, unfortunately, without any results to date. Because the situation does not improve either at national or, of course, at European and international level. The situation has literally reached five and five. And the government continues to show incompetent, ineffective in confronting, completing administrative procedures, ensuring the absorption of funds. I really wonder, what else should happen to the government finally decide on a national policy and take action. Because, obviously, the implementation of the agreement between the European Union and Turkey is not enough. We have seen the Minister wonder, of course, who supports it and who does not. But I think we were here when the bill was passed at that time. I think this question is addressed within the SYRIZA, not to the other parties and to the attitude they have taken. At least when it comes to the Democratic Partnership, which, when this agreement came up with the many problems, we described it as a wish but, of course, also had some positive and some very difficult and negative points to which we drew your attention. But we cannot accept from the Greek Government two years later that it has not gone through with a plan to decongested the disproportionately heavy geographical areas of the country, that the asylum services should not proceed as they should, that the government should be confined to rough actions and communication tactics. A characteristic example is the recruitment to public works programmes for refugee structures and, finally, the fiasco to which this programme has reached, as well as the derogating from public contracts to cover emergencies and direct awards. We have, moreover, been haunting them all the previous days in the bills. It is not possible to see unacceptable scenes like these in the accommodation structure of refugees in the Greek. In the spring I saw Mr. Muzala, and she made a public commitment that in two months' time the problem will be over. There were structures ready, the Greek people, the refugees, would have moved to structures that were ready. And even he showed me the plan exactly where they're going. He had said in two months from the spring of 2016 to the summer. And we arrive in spring 2017. That's criminal inefficiency. At the same time, crime circuits are not being treated and, of course, we have phenomena like those of the Oriokastro. I would like to stress here that these are unacceptable phenomena, as they hamper the unavoidable access of the refugee to school and disgrace all democratic citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, no one doubts - as is noted in the timely question by colleagues - that the greater weight and the more direct consequences at local level have faced islands and islands. The problems have also been clearly illustrated. But the relevant ministries continue to mock both refugees and local communities. They lost their lives. We must not count now how many people they are, not continue in this process of counting. I think that the Greek Parliament is not honoured. So in order to make this effort, to improve the hospitality conditions and the related benefits, which are still in deficit, we had to get to this point. The islanders are talking - and they are right - about subscribing services and all the relevant bodies. Can the inhabitants of these islands still be ignored today, which in most cases made a decisive contribution to the management of the refugee crisis when the state was absent over time? The problems become a arena of internal conflicts and conflicts many times within the government. There is also no government and self-government cooperation. There is no proper coordination. I could say too many examples. I won't do it today. We have also stressed this for a long time now. Plan and coordination are needed between government, government, non-governmental organisations, which are performing. There's no such thing. The relevant ministers must inform the extent to which this fair distribution will take place, but also how it will be coordinated at all levels. Ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with all this, and how can we hope then for any commitment to draft a development and social programme for the benefit of the islands? We rightly believe that this is how you mock them once again. I have heard you, Minister, say some things. You said that in segregation in refugees and immigrants you did not go any further because, as you said, you could not because the asylum procedure was delaying. I will tell you something: you have not complied with the decision of the Political Heads of State under the President of the Republic. And do not hide behind the asylum procedures that they are the only ones responsible for this matter. It is also due to obsessed not only in the asylum procedure. And when the asylum procedure is completed again, there are no ready mechanisms for segregation. This debate, as you well know, had also taken place in the Council of Political Heads, but you did not go any further. You said at the same time that the mayors are wrong. It's wrong for the front with all the self-government, it's wrong to put all the self-government right now. Make it clear what reasonable, what mayors and what is wrong and where you have been helped in this process and what the government has done to ensure that there is proper coordination. At the same time you referred to the issue of the smooth distribution of refugees to the European Union, and you quite rightly said that there is no wish on the part of the European Union at this time. And you asked what to do as, as you said, you only achieved 12 thousand in the relocation. You can negotiate effectively. That's what we've been telling you from the start. Let me remind you that the original decisions were said for a hundred sixty thousand and then for seventy - two thousand. We were then telling you not to move on, as the Prime Minister did, to relocate a minimum number of people only to Luxembourg when nothing was working in this process and to insist on the compulsory distribution of refugees and compulsory relocation. You have not heard this and proceeded with a process that you find before you today. At the same time, you spoke in a way towards the opposition - I imagine not only to the party, which asked you the question, but to the whole opposition - that it is better to remain silent, that it speaks with urgency, with populism and in any case that the refugee has been managed by the government so far. I don't think that's a conciliation strategy, Minister. I don't think you're following a conciliation strategy. We have shown that we are following this strategy of understanding - and you know that - in many bills, which you have brought here, and in amendments with acts and with the agreement of the European Union - Turkey. You said, "What is the position of counterpopulation? Bring them to Athens?’ Is it possible to proceed with such social automation, to speak in such a way and to separate the needs of the islands and urban centres? A plan is currently needed to tackle the problem throughout the country and not a process that will increase the problem. That's what the place needs right now. To conclude and to conclude, I would like to tell you that the refugee issue is very serious and is not solved in this way. It is not solved by this reaction that you have in criticism - as you know very well - criticism based on data and data. Finally, we need to put forward a solution to the problem, which respects both refugees and residents' rights. In this we are firmly in favour of the rights and refugees and the inhabitants of the regions. But there is a need for a fair distribution both within the country and within the European Union and, of course, at international level to take all those initiatives that will solve the problem at its root. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u163	Thank you, Mr. Theocharopoulos. Parliamentary spokesman for the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u164	Thank you, Mr President. Indeed, this morning we heard the Prime Minister say that the new agreement is different, and they did not expect it, it ensures the country's perspective and that the start of application will be from 1-1-2019. What does that mean? It concludes the third Memorandum at the end of 2018 and immediately begins the fourth Memorandum from 1-1-2019 with measures that will be legislated from now. However, which of the measures for the second evaluation of the third memorandum will be implemented immediately? He didn't tell us this morning. It'll be team redundancies, it'll be working, it'll be trade union law, it'll be tax? What does it mean, really, that measures will be accompanied by countermeasures? What does it mean to be fiscally neutral? One, for example, who has a personal difference of EUR 200 per month - which he shows will be abolished - will lose EUR 2,400 per year. Suppose he wouldn't pay HISBIA. But today the HNVIA who pays is 1/6 of what he's going to lose. Today he pays 400 euros, because he lives in such a house. Will the measures be neutral to him if that occurs? The measures shall be fiscally neutral in terms of economy. And of course, what Mr Chakalotos said yesterday will emerge, that some will lose and others will not. So we say, "No waiting, no delays, now the working class needs to organise its struggle, strengthen its alliance with the other popular strata against this policy and welcome the troika and the government as they should." Mr. Prime Minister spoke of working regularity this morning. But, Mr. Juncker, in a reply he gave to two Parliamentaries from Portugal and Germany, what did he say? The memorials - it says - on the basis of a judgment of the European Court of Justice, are out of legal order of the European Union. The Charter - it says - does not apply as it stands in Greece because national measures have been adopted within the framework of the memorandums. That's Juncker's place. What kind of work regularity is the Prime Minister talking about? But let us come to the other issues. Minister, the Ministry of Migration Policy has still not completed its recommendation. There are three services in this, which are related to refugee: the Office of Asylum, Reception and Refugees. Organography still doesn't exist. Personal, too, as far as the roof does not exist. The roof is hosted at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Without any preparation of the services, they also went on to finances, so that the contractors of the service could not be paid. Of course, some procedures have been proceeding lately. The service may not carry out any cost for supplies or services provided. The financial obligations of thousands of euros are pending against suppliers and are in the air. These are issues, therefore, which have to do with the Ministry and are also supposed to have the effectiveness it should have in this critical area. Workers working in hot spots are working under very difficult conditions with hunger wages, without individual protection. A middle-aged worker! Are these best practices, we say, of the European Union? There are employees with OAED's public works programmes. Some others are through ASAP and some through NGOs. The top hand is taken by NGOs, who treat other workers as their own, who are instructed on what they will do, etc. Of course, for NGOs, the responsibilities - beyond the European Union, which they prefer - are also in the government, which has accepted this role. The government is implementing the agreement between the European Union and Turkey and the action plan it has signed with the Commission on the implementation of the agreement, which is progressing - with urgent procedures as it appears - to set up detention centres in Kos and in other islands. The government has told them. In detention centres, in accordance with the Ministerial Decision, asylum seekers will also be detained in order to ensure re-promotion in Turkey of Syrian refugees, as provided for in the EU-Turkey Agreement. It is also explicitly stated that the construction of detention structures will deter the creation of new migratory flows. I mean, we're talking about a total reinstatement of Amygdaleza's logic. That was the model applied by the previous governments and you were then on the railroads. Today, however, you are moving on to a similar process. This decision comes at a time when the Aegean islands, in which reception and identification centres are operating, have been transformed into double-tracked zones of refugees and migrants, resulting in violation of the rights of asylum seekers, unacceptable living conditions on hot spots, and adverse effects on the life of the islanders themselves. We believe, Minister, that every process of creating detention centres for refugees and immigrants must be stopped. We strongly disagree with the new 'Amgdalezas' and all these centres. Remove hot spots and ensure that the only procedures on the islands are to welcome, record, temporary human hospitality. And, of course, we need the immediate release of refugees and immigrants from the islands and then from the country, with the safe movement of all these refugees. We do not want to say again about the cause of the refugee. We've said it several times. However, the management of the refugee crisis without conflict with the causes that cause it can only have a positive development. The use of refugee, internal or foreign policy, makes the issue more complex and more difficult. Tolerance on violations of international treaties creates new problems. It's changing International Law. It abolishes rights of refugees. The EU-Turkey agreement changes the law of refugees. Here, too, there are responsibilities. Tolerance on the action of suspicious organisations, the so-called NGOs, without all smuggling them all - some may even offer - creates the conditions for unfairness, for the management of any funds for the own benefit of organisations. It is not very few of those who have been denounced. There are responsibilities. However, we believe that the refugee should see the solidarity of our people as a whole and stand against the racist poison of the far right. We have heard before a poison delicacy, racism from the Golden Dawn. We believe, however, that the people are much more mature today to face these voices and these practices everywhere, especially for the children of refugees.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u165	Thank you Mr Christos Katsotis, Parliamentary Representative of the Communist Party of Greece. Parliamentary spokesman from Potami Mr Spyridon Lykoudis, MP for the 1st of Athens and Vice-President of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u166	Minister, I would like to begin by commenting on you. I think you and the Minister-in-Office and friend who are also aware of this, that many times the political speeches of both the Members and the ministers, but also of the political dialogue outside Parliament, also include formalities, the burden of which the speaker often fails to define or scratch, as we say. It's okay. They usually go through these things. I think, however, that in matters such as today, which are of particular importance, because it has many dimensions - both humanitarian and historical and patriotic - we should be a little more careful. Why am I saying this? In your speech you said, "I am sure that all those who go up to this Step to speak on this issue, go up with opposition". That's not right at all. And if you think it's a conversation we call it, and it doesn't matter, I'd say that's what you should notice. I, for example, do not go up to this step in order to make any opposition in any way, despite the fact that I have to tell you that I have been given the will to oppose you, because I think your speech, despite the fact that it was particularly interesting in my opinion and that it had elements which I do not dispute, if you hear it again you will see that it was a strong speech of self-reporting self-reporting, political permissiveness and certainties on a point in which we do not need it, because it is clear that we have a problem. We have no problem because you are incompetent or because you do not want to settle matters. It is this country, the country of entry of hundreds of thousands of immigrants or refugees from countries in which their human rights are affected, even their lives, and we therefore have a burden that we must manage. So, since no one is ready to blame you, or does not want to blame you for another type of oligopoly, you should be a little more focused on the assessments you make. And I would like to explain: The debate on this issue of irregular immigrants and refugees shows, I think, with emphasis, a number of problems, which are best to tackle them honestly, rather than ignore or pass them, putting our heads like ostrichs in the sand. Firstly, recent and hardly accepted by the government that we alone were unable - or could not objectively - to deal with the problem of refugee and migration flows. It took the European agreement, the presence of NATO forces in the Aegean Sea, the financial and administrative support and assistance of our partners to identify aspects of the issue and to keep the issue in mind. No one doubts that. You cannot say that if, for example, someone criticized the fact that for a very long period in the government there was another concept of refugee or migration flows, that was ideological. Because that's what you said. I would say the opposite, that that is to say, that it has characterised the government for a long period of time an ideological flaw in relation to the flow of irregular immigrants and refugees, an abstract that this has to do with how we as progressive and left-wing people would be faced with hot problems. But that is not only about our sensitivity and our understanding, our ideology or our relationship with history and the Left, but about many other serious things. That is why we have also reached the terrible reality of campsites and horrific conditions. You say, "But we do what we can." I'm not questioning it. But there was a whole period of time that led to all that we are living today: deaths from the cold, carbon dioxide, etc. It's not within the government's intentions to lead things to the extremities. But let us see the problem with honesty. I sincerely tell you that it bothers me - and it bothers me politically, in order to come to an agreement, I am not a rude person - this self-reporting self-reportance that you have spoken with. I do not want to plunder you and tell you that you are arousing the situation and idyllicly describing the situation of immigrants. But you have given an impression that you have things arranged while that's not the case. Secondly, it is obvious that the gap between unscrupulous declarations and the possibility of solving practical problems, which are related to both local societies and the issue as a whole. One wonders, Minister, whether our islands have actually become a refugee warehouse or a prison. I am not saying it, but the Amnesty International report last September. You referred to the issue, with a distance and with a critical attitude towards Amnesty International. I don't know if you're right, but based on some data we're talking about. We don't make images or we don't know. I don't walk around the islands to know. I'm trying to see through what I have as information what I have to make. The same organization by letter expresses its concern about the conditions in Greek. Excuse me, Minister, but he must be right, with all due respect. Last May you said that in June they would leave and are still there a thousand eight hundred and two thousand people. I don't know exactly how much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u167	A thousand four hundred.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u168	Thirdly, according to a recent report from the European Commission on our islands, some fifteen thousand people are currently hosted. Am I right?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u169	Thirteen thousand with fifteen thousand people.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u170	What can you do about it? I ask - and I ask frankly, without opposition - what are we going to do with this story. When, and how do we get rid of the situation? Fourthly, what are the measures taken by the government for vulnerable groups, namely those of these people who have suffered torture, rape and unaccompanied ones? I heard you say today that we have three hundred beds and another thousand are coming.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u171	We've got three hundred.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u172	Three hundred and a thousand are coming?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u173	We've got three hundred.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u174	A total of three hundred. In any case, however, I think that the unaccompanied are about two and a half thousand.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u175	It's two thousand, three hundred.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u176	So we still have a burden on us. I'm really trying to get in touch. I am seriously asking questions about the Ministry's ability to respond to some of its responsibilities. Explain to me, honestly: You have lost two general secretaries in a few months. Is it like this or not? You have lost Mr. Vassilis Papadopoulos and the former Secretary of the First Welcome Identifying Mr. Odysseus Budouris, who resigned has also made some references that I have the impression that they have not been answered. I'm not scandalizing or looking for other things, but there are complaints they want an answer. Finally, there is a need to answer who has the coordination of all these state services dealing with matters. Look, I am nothing but in the mood to record responsibility only on our side. I am aware of the delays that exist from the European point of view of providing the necessary technical assistance to both appropriate staff and other sectors. I know that some Member States of the European Union refuse to fulfil their obligations and obligations. They have zero participation, zero reception of refugees, which does not honour our European values and our culture. However, I have the need to see how my own country responds to this issue. That is why I went up to this step, Minister, and not to opposition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u177	Thank you Mr Spyridon Lykoudi, Parliamentary Representative from Potami and Z Vice-President of the Parliament. The Foreign Minister for Migration Policy, Mr Yiannis Balafas, has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u178	How much time do I have, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u179	Five minutes is time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u180	I'm gonna need ten minutes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u181	We will show a relative tolerance, as with the others.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u182	I have been speaking for the first time since this Step on the subject that has been assigned to me in recent months. I'll tell everything I've ever had. Separating clearly and fully the positions of all parties and the present positions of all the other parties from the hatred that has been emanated from the representative of the Golden Dawn, hatred of devastated people either from the economic inequalities or from the wars that are being waged - and they have not been provoked by these people in the wars - I think - why they should not easily pass on a few things - what attitude these political ancestors would have to take towards the one million Greek refugees, with an absolute Greek conscience. Some, however, also spoke Turkish. They didn't know well Greek. They came from the depths of Asia, but they had an entirely Greek conscience. I'm sure they'd be called Turkish seeds, I'm sure they'd be on the tents, as long as these people stayed on the tents, etc. My perception - and I believe all of us - is a slogan written by some children on the road, on some road, with their bags: "Our grandparents were refugees, our fathers immigrants, we will not be racist". The Greek people and the government in these years gave high samples of solidarity, dignity and humanity. And I'm talking in general. Obviously, there are aspects that may mitigate this assessment. But that is the general appreciation, the great picture. It is a difficult matter to manage - there is no easy solution to this issue, to the management of this issue - where you are obliged to keep a balance between the data of the Greek people in our country and those who have been beaten up, especially the last batch, who, without their responsibility - and without our responsibility - have been caught in our country. And I would appeal to any position or criticism - it does not matter, it is all welcome in the final analysis - to take into account two things: that, under the responsibility of not our own, but of many European countries, our northern borders are closed and that absorption - let me say so - in the Anglo-Saxon countries, despite all the decisions they have voted on, is very small. I say this because very comfortable, some, with a lot of sensitivity, say that everyone should go from the islands to mainland Greece and get papers to go to the countries of their desire. Really? I'd like a lot of things to do, too. So, if it were any government of you, that would have happened automatically? How would they go? Someone else says, insist that the relocation be done. Hey, we insisted! Muzala's faith has come out. And I'm talking about Muzala who has not known the refugee and refugee of the devastated people, in modern times, has been working on it for twenty years and in much more difficult conditions than the current ones. And I'm saying this because, unfortunately, very easy talk is being said and offers and personalities are being erased in this place. Let me have a word about the unpaid workers. The fact is that a small category of workers - just for a certain period - at the Asylum Service for a short period have been paid late because of the administrative problems we had to create a new Ministry. That's true. They made a strike one day. Of course, people are working and the issue they have, solved these days and the problems they have been dealing with have been settled. But let's be careful. They were given, said one of us, two and a half thousand seats, and they went to hot spots, to reception and identification centers. He's just uninformed. Two and a half thousand jobs were unemployed, not from our Ministry of Labour. They were given to the municipalities and a small part of them were exploited or given by the municipalities to the premises and open accommodation structures or reception and identification centres. I would like to make a comment on 'definition'. Unfortunately, there are no old parties here. I would like to say to you this: one inch of the people who have been appointed for forty years would be the political scene. We neither want nor can we do the same. We can't! Do not say 'determine'. Who appoints? We can't, gentlemen. There are SAPAs, there are procedures. Don't say that easily, because they're swallowing it. I would like to say a last word about Samos, because you have made a reference, Mr President. I've been there recently. I believe that you, too, have gone in and you've also been in, not as a political leader, who didn't go in either for security reasons, or maybe he didn't want to muddy his shoes! I don't know. In Samos there is a reception and identification centre defined in relation to the urban fabric, which hosts around a thousand five hundred with a thousand six hundred people. It is a specific number, delimited space and there will be no new burden. There is a constant, daily improvement in the conditions. And now this whole process also works for decongestion. Whoever says - I don't mean from us - to become decongested tomorrow or doesn't know what he's saying or lying. Decongestion will gradually occur. And it can be done. Let's come over and talk. There is no need for these procedures alone. We can use other procedures. I have also called on you to discuss issues relating to these facts. Half a word - and I shall end, Mr President - for local society. I do not appear as an original expression of any local society. But I want us all to do this. No one is the original expression of local society in general. Finally, I want to say a few things out. Firstly, we do not have a front for local government. You're making a big mistake. In many cases we appreciate the role played by local government in managing the refugee problem. I am referring to a pan-Hellenic level. Secondly, VAT is not crumbly, my dear fellow Member. I think that this assessment affects these people, who had been prioritised at some point - here are the people of the islands - as a number of targets on the issue of VAT. VAYSSADE (S). — (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent report. Thirdly, as far as tourism is concerned, I do not know what information you have. I have a responsible information from the Mayor of Samos, Mr. Colleague, who says that the prerogatives for tourism are going very well this year. Today Mr. Cameroon from Kos said the same thing. To be happy about that, gentlemen! You don't get a pessimistic assessment you had. I'm not saying you did it intentionally. But you must be glad that the islands will have tourism in the next few years. That is why I would suggest that you do not discredit the situation on our islands. It is much better than the one you describe and it will be daily on this issue - and with the help of people there - better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u183	We thank the Deputy Minister for Migration Policy, Mr Balafa. We shall now proceed very briefly to a number of questions from Members of Parliament. Mr. Georgiadis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u184	Thank you, Mr President. Because a lot has been said, I must also give some answers by taking advantage of the fact that one of my colleagues will not give a second-guess, but also the time of the ANEs that have not been placed, without that being to say that we will be spending a lot of time. Minister, has anyone been involved in the Ministry of Migration Policy for the use of resources both of the Structural Funds of the Northern Aegean Islands and of the 2014-2020 Cash Programmes? It is not by chance my question why, as Mr Lykoudi mentioned, you may have exceeded the resignation of Mr Odysseus Budouri, but I will remain on the other resignation of Mr Karatzoglou, who was appointed in August 2015 as Head of the DPRK, the responsible ESDP authority, which would shorten the procedures for requests to the European Union for financing projects on the islands. Can you tell us why you have driven him away - why he has been expelled, not resigned - by choosing a delay for twelve months to finance the funds in the European Union? I would remind you that this official has decades of pre-service in the European Union and too many United Nations missions in Africa, Asia, Yugoslavia and elsewhere. He was the right person in the right place. Two weeks ago European Commission Vice-President Franz Timmermanns said the committee would consider imposing serious economic sanctions on countries that do not cooperate on the issue of transferring sixty thousand asylum seekers to Greece and Italy. Has our country submitted any new proposals on this matter or does it intend to accept the opposition of these countries to make a contribution of solidarity instead of receiving refugees? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I am not late, Mr President, thank you. There is also a report by 'SPIEGEL' that the other Member States of the European Union refuse to send to the islands qualified personnel foreseen between the European Union and Turkey and would send the First Reception Services, because they are afraid of their security. What Greek official will be responsible for the collapse of this agreement with Turkey and what steps will you take to bring peace to hot spots and restore the confidence of the partners? However, you have not responded to the NGOs. I will table our proposals, which we have submitted since 4 March 2016 to the President of the Republic. I don't know if you have them in your hands. Mr Kamatos referred to me because he spoke about the rapporteur, saying that I am teaching far-right rhetoric. Mr. Kamaterre, you are from Kos, you are interested in Kos and obviously about the immigration problem that exists in Kos. I would like to ask you how many questions you have asked about Kos' immigration problem, because you have just asked two questions about the island. One was to increase the rental prices of beaches on the islands and the other was to increase the concession prices of the beaches in the area of Kos. You have not asked a question about immigration policy in general.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u185	Good, Mr. Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u186	I'll finish in thirty seconds. Minister, we didn't say you'd leave to God. We didn't say you'd quit. We said we'd all find it together, if you can't as a government. One thing you say is that we're far-right on the other side. I shall end with the issue of populism, because you have given a great deal of emphasis to the fact that we are pluralizing. I would also remind the Deputy Minister, Mr Balafas, of the videos that you have released and recently, on your election announcements for the EUR 12 000 taxfree, on the abolition of the HPAI, on the memoranda you would rip, on the thirteenth pension, for the EUR 751. If it's not populism, then what is it? It is also confirmed that Mr Tsipras, based on the BBC, has been designated as local populists. I will once again present the specific article that has been published worldwide. He's in the local politicians all over the world, along with Lepen and Mr. Trump. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u187	Mr President, I would like the floor for a minute on staff to restore the truth.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u188	To complete the secondarys first. Mr. Aristides Fokas has asked for the floor for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u189	Let us also speak, Mr President, in turn.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u190	I'm saying this because Mr. Fokas was persistently asking for the floor. Obviously, all the honourable Members who want to be seconded will have the opportunity to do so. Mr. Fokas, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u191	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to mention to Mr Muzala a little, because in his speech he referred to our parliamentary group and said that perhaps someone, one, has gone to hot spot once. Mr. Muzala, I just want to tell you that the top ten hot spots of Thessaloniki have visited them many times. You referred to the hot spot of the Diabetes...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u192	But what do you say...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u193	I will close it quickly and go to the most important for hospitality centres.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u194	It's not hot spot. You don't even know what hot spot is.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u195	But I've visited them many times. Let me just tell you about the Diabetes that I was there when you announced it was going to be the first one in Thessaloniki. I was there before the plays were made. I was there with the world. We helped in the process. We helped refugees with food, clothing, toys. I'm closing this up here so it doesn't seem like none of us have gone to a hospitality center. I am particularly talking about Thessaloniki, because I also have a business space of one kilometer from the Diabetes. Mr Muzala, as far as the question is concerned, you said that there were no questions. There has been a rainy question from all of our parliamentary group. Let me just remind you of a few of the things I have put in, and I have not received an answer. We said that the Mayor of Samos asked to be of a closed type and gave his explanations of why he is asking for this, because the island is too small, the inhabitants are a few thousand, the tourists are many and they do not want the refugees to move out. That's how the mayor put it. I'm waiting for an answer. You'll tell me. We have said about the asylum procedure. We want them to move faster. We have tabled the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u196	So do I.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u197	From that point on, we talked about these crumbs you gave since the suspension of the VAT increase to the free traders. I have already mentioned that 85% of residents are involved in tourism. There are free professionals who have problems, like all free professionals in northern Greece and want help for this. Mr Balafa, you have gone to connect - unfortunately - the Pontius we came as refugees, because you said, "Turkish seeds" to refugees.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u198	What about me? What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u199	That's what you said. It doesn't matter. You want to link - unfortunately - the refugees who came from Pontto, from Asia Minor. We were Greek...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u200	Mr. Foka, he didn't say that. Wrong impressions are being created.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u201	They are refugees and I want to clarify this. No relationship.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u202	He didn't say that. None of this has anything to do with what the Minister said.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u203	As far as Samos is concerned, I said that in 2016 there was a 23% reduction in charters. That's proven. We are not going to talk about increasing tourism.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u204	Why should we be whining and not talk about this year? If you're aware - and I respect - you say we're going well this year! Understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u205	This year's prerogatives. Let's see the results. I'm talking about results. The results of last year were what I told you. I expect you to tell me results for 2017. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u206	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, if they want to speak, it is Mr Saridis and Mrs Big Economics. Mr. Katsiantonis and Mr. Cavadela assured me that Mr. Georgiadis...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u207	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u208	Is there anything personal?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u209	Sure. In the speech of the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u210	Then I would also like to speak on personal grounds, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u211	When, Mr. Katsiantoni?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u212	In his speech...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u213	All right, all right. Once they are finished, I will give the floor to you and Mr Cameroon, because there are two personal issues pending. Mr. Saridis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u214	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, the refugee crisis is a major problem - no one disputes this - which is made up of many smaller problems. By trying to solve or solve small individual problems, we can also give an answer to how this great problem of the refugee crisis has arisen, which has clearly arisen through the wars that have been created in our neighborhood. But how this big problem will be solved, clearly and only the international community can manage it and find the solutions. The Greek Government here can help from its point of view to the very small problems and solve small problems in relation to the big problem. This year I told you, Minister, that I had visited the Diabetes. This is the third or fourth time in a year when I visit them. I've also visited other hosting centers. I had visited Idomen at the time, so that I could have a point of view so that we can talk to you here right now. Clearly, the situation - nobody says that - is much better than it was a year ago. That's all he was missing! It must have been the same. However, I would now like to point out two minor problems. One thing has to do with Lero. The other has to do with the management of refugee in local communities. At the moment, hospitality centers are decongested, because too many people have gone to and hosted in hotels, but hotels, which will open in the summer season. So these people should go back to hospitality. I have the information, at least from the area of Thessaloniki, that hospitality structures are still unable to house those who will return. I would like an answer on that. The second thing I would like to see from my side is a small subject which concerns the island of Leros and the mayor there. I received this paper today from the town hall and it keeps me informed. Look at how little problems they are, which, if we solve them, give solutions. It says that the fixed-term contracts of all employees in the two hosting structures of the island expire on 28 February. The two hosting structures of the island have only one permanent resident. Since 1 March these people will not have a contract. I think your ministry knows that. So the question I am asking you is why there was no provision for a new notice on time to ensure the smooth operation of these two structures on the island of Leros. Don't worry about the big things like asylum. Let's deal with the little ones. This is small and nothing has happened. Today, if you can give an answer. That is what you consider to be a timely question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u215	Thank you, Mr. Saridis. The Minister will answer after that. Ms. Theodora Big Housekeeper now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u216	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Muzala and Mr Balafa, you tried to convince us that the situation on the islands is amazing, that there is no problem, that the inhabitants of the islands speak for themselves, that the mayors are exaggerated. Minister, don't go because you didn't answer the questions I asked you. Clearly say people are overcrowded, so people know they're saying they're overcrowded! You talked again about populism. We have made populism, or are you saying 'we accept you with open arms', but are you not prepared to accept them? You have not been organized and leave them to God’s mercy. That's not populism from us. It was probably from you! You want to show a Left face and say "Come" without being prepared. The first question that the Minister did not answer me is about the Asylum Service, which I told you was responsible. He didn't answer me why it's a mission. It's because your department's contractors will protest - so they may even strike or leave - because you don't pay them. You didn't answer me why you didn't pay them. Why don't you make the organization you need to release the money and get paid? So we're seeing again red tape about which you were accusing before the previous ones. You still do the same. Let me tell you something else. The Minister spoke - I, indeed, dealt with Lesvos - about Muslimism. I didn't ask any questions about muslimism. Nor did any of the Members of the parliamentary group say about Muslimism. How did the Minister think that? He's answering his own questions! He wants to give his answers? I asked him about muslimism? I asked him why in the letters sent by the mayor, Mr Spyros Galenos, to the Prime Minister, to the Minister for Migration Policy, to the Minister for Defence, to the Minister for Civil Protection, no one answered. He didn't get any answers. Was he saying crazy things? That's not what he said. I'm waiting for an answer. You told us that the decongestion of the island has been frozen. Why? You are well aware that the European Union and the Turkey agreement do not prohibit you from promoting vulnerable groups of minors, such as unaccompanied children, in hosting places other than Lesvos. You can move them forward. You must not leave all of them together, and the unaccompanied children and vulnerable groups. This is something that the agreement between the European Union and Turkey does not forbid you. So why don't you do it? Child hospitality structures are completely subordinated and minimal. What have you been doing for two years on the issue of unaccompanied children, who have been waiting weeks until a hosting place is found? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Finally, you tried to justify the unjustified excuses for Moria, where the thousand two things happened. In fact, the Minister said that they did not die five, but three. If I tell you that he died, is that something you accept? Wasn't he human? I don't see it that way, so they didn't die five and one died and we don't care. And we're going down. When the hosting image in Kara Tepe, managed by the municipality, is much better. And you haven't done anything! You put them in the tents, waiting for the heaviness to kick the snow. Why haven't you been able to organize Moria for so many months? I don't know if it's all the reactions that have been made to you. And the only thing I want to congratulate the Minister is that he has succeeded - and I really say he has succeeded! - reverse Lesvos' image, a prevalent destination, since it has given culture with the great poet. So he managed to change the image of the island abroad, so the whole planet is now afraid. Because the Minister may have told us that bookings have been made, but it remains to be seen how many of them will be made. Because this was the case last year, when no one came and they all canceled. Finally, these islands require your full attention, because they are small cultures and most expect to survive culture. If you spoil them, don't expect them to give you space, because they won't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u217	Thank you very much, Mrs. Big Housekeeper. Mr Katsiantonis had asked for the floor on staff. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u218	Minister, with reference to your speech twice to the Central Group of the European Parliament, you asked whether we were serious. Do you think you're more serious than we are, like, the members of the Centron Association? So do you think that because you gave 170,000 euros to the people of Moria, you suddenly are serious and we are not?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u219	Mr. Katsiantoni, this is not personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u220	Please withdraw. I repeat that when you referred to our parliamentary group, you have asked whether we are serious.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u221	That's not personal, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u222	I didn't say that!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u223	Minister, you will answer your question on time. I'll give you the floor. I would like to say that the expression 'if you are serious' is an expression used in Parliament. 'Well, are you serious about asking such a question?'.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u224	This expression is degrading!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u225	Obviously it's degrading, but to some extent it's a political characterization. Mr. Cameroon has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u226	For restoring truth and misunderstanding, Mr. Georgiadis, I obviously did not mean that you are far-right. I have barely praised your position and described it as a well-paid whole of the Centro Parliamentary Group. But I said that you are plunging into phrases and even far-right, when you say that we have opened our arms and welcomed the refugees, that one can put a border on the sea, etc. These have been answered many times and we know from whom they are called. It's not possible for rubber boats, which are pierced and drowned by people, to face them differently, except by collecting and helping them. It is a contradiction on the one hand to abdicate us that conditions are miserable and, on the other, to speak with that phrase. Finally, because we were designated to follow New Democracy for closed centres, I would like to say that that is what is happening now that people are trapped. When we used to function, and all these centres, with controlled, but open structures, people were leaving. So we cannot be indicted that we have changed our minds and that we are now in favour of those who are closed, who are not exactly that. Not even amylacees are what we're talking about. The Minister will explain it. These are places where people should be controlled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u227	Thank you. The Minister has the floor to give the answers and whatever he wants. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u228	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think that things have been recycled in secondary terms. After all, I am deeply conscious of the fact that we are discussing a very difficult subject. There will also be false expressions from my side. Let's try to see the substance. Mr Megalus, I agree entirely with your speech. I don't have anything to add. I mean, are there any security issues? We need more police. We spit blood, they do a very good job, it's not enough. That's clear. We need more. That's different from saying it's a clear-cut vine. You didn't say that. Others have said so. On unaccompanied people, and if we need special treatment, of course. We're trying to give it away. Thirty-three, three hundred in seven months. But there's more missing. We're trying to make it. If, of course, every week or every month, three hundred more unaccompanied, we will still not succeed. In Barcelona they protested they wanted refugees. That's very good. Unfortunately, there has not been a demonstration in other countries of Europe or in us calling for refugees to be relocated. That's a weakness. However, that is not enough, because the Spanish Government is against relocation and a government is negotiating with governments. Why in southern Greece only a hundred and sixty? That's right. Because we had to act very quickly so that Idome would be empty. We take measures, they are balanced and I will tell you at the end of my speech the program for 2017, which I think will cover you. I believe that the lack of information, as you say about Kos, for example - I am not saying that you are doing so on purpose - is something that is done on purpose. They're up-to-date. They don't want to. It is so simple and one must stand up to this position. They don't want to. It's not like they miss the information. We are constantly fighting and making preconditions for what you have said. You're right, they do, I claim. We are asking for an improvement in the conditions. You're right. They do, I said before. Diabetes before, Diabetes now. What's going on in Serres. What's going on in Kavala. One-one camp in northern Greece, St. Helen, camps here in Attica. We're making a huge effort. In Thessaloniki we have the problem in mind. There are hotels, they'll be back in camps. We think we'll be ready. If anything is missing now, you can come here and say again that the government is incapable, but you know it's the third move within seven months. You're all wrong and you don't all do it unconsciously. Some people do it consciously. They are not, gentlemen, seventeen months from the dissolution of Idomen and from the Europe-Turkey Agreement. Otherwise, it's seventy-two years from the Asia Minor disaster. But that's not how it works. If we don't have the right evidence, we can't appreciate it right. Mr. Theocharopoulos, who is missing, referred to subsecution. We agree. From two hundred people on the asylum, we reached six hundred fifty and along with something from UNHCR are eight hundred. We need more. We agree. How many could we have within seven months, with all the recruitments lawfully, with all the invitations by contests, with all that? Delay to the Greek: To finish with the Greek one forever, because I am loaded with a responsibility, and here you will understand that it is wrong to say that I keep putting the blame on third parties. I've taken the responsibility for the Greek too many times. I couldn't. We couldn't. We had fifty-five thousand people to take care of. In the big picture, the Greek stayed behind. We'll try, it's in the footage, it's obviously not after these confrontations - 15 months now you're hitting me the Greek and you don't beat me fifty-five camps we've built, no one presents the big picture - to commit again with a date. It's a top priority. But let me tell you something. It is wrong to use immigration in Greek, that my things are a trick of government, so that the privatisation of the Greek is not progressed. In this sense, these things are not serious and in that sense I never said that you are not serious. I shall refer again to Mr Theoharopoulos. ‘The separation is not of asylum’. It's asylum. Anything else that is legally flattering, arbitrary, awaits us as the Court of Justice in The Hague, is waiting for us in Strasbourg, and everything is waiting for us. "To negotiate effectively, to insist." Okay. Aren't we doing it? Are we doing this wrong? Are we doing this badly? Come on, we're doing this wrong and we're doing it badly. The sovereign parties in the European Union are the People's Party and the Socialist Party, namely those representing the New Democracy and the Democratic Reconciliation. Come on, we're nice, we're not doing well. What if it was acceptable? Why? So let us be careful what we say about these generalities. I never said it was better to keep quiet. I carried a process, a ritual of Catholic marriage. That if anyone doesn't have anything specific to say, don't say so that the marriage can move on. This is different from 'better remain silent'. She's better off talking, but she's talking documentarily. Mr. Lykoudis is missing. I have to say that I, in his speech, agree with many points. I would also like to say something that is a personal confession. I don't know for sure, but I feel the only one in this room that has no certainty. I live with the anguish of immigration. Our government has no certainty, and that is why we know it is a phenomenon with a huge dynamic. And we're running in time. On the contrary, I think I'm constantly confronted with certainties. '17 months now' - seven months - 'Tourism has fallen'. Excuse me, but why do you say that? Is there any chance that eight hundred thousand refugees will pass from the islands and that tourism will not fall? Do you know any magic that I don't know? That's your certainty. Show her to me. I don't have it. I'm scared. Are we licking whose ears? The islanders, which have been listed? I'll tell you after the financial measures. It's a drop in the ocean, but it's important. Why do you say it again? It is the Greek Government, which said "the illegal immigrants and refugees will take boats to Kos". It's a thousand hundred meters from Turkey. Is that the Greek government that defined Samos, who defined Mytilini, who defined Chios? Or is it the Greek Government, which, with all the mistakes - and I am the one who always admits my mistakes - has tried to save the situation by evacuating the islands very quickly, by making hotspots and by limiting within people? So what's the point? "Tourism has fallen and what will the government do?" The government is fighting internationally to curb illegal immigration. What else can he do? Can we tell the Turkish slaves and the movements "go to Lefkada"? It can't be done. Amnesty International. Listen, there's a stone lamp. This also concerns the Member of the JRC. There is a political group, which is not identical, which is contrary to the Europe-Turkey Agreement. Anyone who opposes the Europe-Turkey Agreement, from there on, is right. Amnesty International says no one should stay on the islands, go back to Greece. If we thought - and you - that the Europe-Turkey Agreement is wrong, it must not be supported, that is what we would do. Let us choose, let us read behind the lines. Sensitive groups, unaccompanied down. Mr. Varvichiotis, I never said it was the third to blame. This is a way of presenting things. One billion euros is money, which you can imagine. We've been here several times and the money and how they share. Obviously, you are talking about the 300 million of DG ECHO, which it has given to NGOs and we are not legally entitled to control them. You also talk about the money that the other governments had taken before SYRIZA became a government, which you have never made use of. I am referring to the money from DG HOME, the AMIF and the other fund. We've got it. We got an emergency. We're spending a lot of money. We have very good criticisms from Europe. And we have a great deal of intervention on the agenda, which is regularly until 2020, which is strictly eligible. Food, for example, don't give. We made an intervention. It doesn't make any sense. I think we'll just repeat our opposition. I'm going to say two things and I'm going to finish financing in connection with the damage suffered by the refugee and immigration. I'm not right about immigration and we're doing this. We say that these islands need to be strengthened by the damage they have. The VAT, which you lowered him so badly, was the main request. It was the request - headline. The request - headline solved. And when the request was resolved, you voted for it in the House, but until then you mocked it and sarcastically sarcastically. Financing from national budgets, national strand. In 2015, 18.5 million were allocated to the regions, 6.5 million from the 1.5 million planned, an increase of 400%. The region of Northern Aegean was also granted EUR 9.7 million in the South Aegean region of EUR 13.8 million. They have been the largest funding in the past six years. In 2017, the national component shall be increased by EUR 250 million compared to 2016. Already, individual compensatory measures are being implemented: Port in Sigri, in cooperation with the Ministry of Agriculture, a new swimming pool. Co-financed NSRP programmes - someone asked - to support island entrepreneurship in the islands. Development law to strengthen entrepreneurship. Specific categories are provided for the islands, with increased migratory flows. Technical assistance to small municipalities of islands like Kastelorizo. Financing for the development of renewable energy sources. Creation of municipalities for the service of KITs. It was eight hundred jobs, which you fought for here too. And today you fought them, until the last Member of Parliament who spoke from the Central Association, while everyone was fighting it, said 'Why don't you continue this programme?' We'll keep it up. There are stadiums. It's from Europe, it's co-financed. There'll probably be a one-two-month gap and it'll start again. And then it'll be back and it'll start again. The program is almost ready, it's submitted, it needs to be finished to re-issued. In conclusion, I would like to inform you that last month we have done a very hard one - not in the sense of opponents, but in the sense of seeing where it will end up - negotiations on economics and the plan for 2017 and for 2018 with DG HOME, which is the one committee, and DG ECHO, which is the NGOs committee. We have concluded today that we are sending Europe and it is pre-aggregated - I always hold one butt for nothing to change - that, for 2017, we are planning to close further camps and add tens of thousands of more seats to apartments and by the end of 2018, tens of thousands more places to apartments. This means that if the Europe-Turkey Agreement is in force, the camps will be minimal now. It also means money to the population, it means dignity to refugees and immigrants. We are going to give cash or voucher to those who have been entitled to it since April. And we're continuing our school programs for health. A great success - we will know next week whether or not it will be adopted - is that in addition to the NGOs, we have tried and accepted by DG ECHO that the municipalities should also be together. This will enable us, once implemented, to become more dispersal, because the municipalities are institutions which really can handle this problem. We said, moreover, that our political view is that it must go to these municipalities slowly. But we're still in emergency. It's gonna be a big win. Let me tell you one last thing. I'm not stupid, as far as I know. I have no reason to mess with the mayors. I'm not messing with anyone. I say very simply that there is a proposal, which says that in order to make the situation on the islands better and to make the returns, the conditions need to be improved. That's what everyone agrees. But, in order to improve conditions, we need more space and to build a closed pre-regions centre on the island because, unfortunately, the Europe-Turkey Agreement says so. Do we agree? If we agree, let me know what you want. If we do not agree, there is one problem. I have to stress the problem. I never claimed that islanders were racist, I never claimed that mayors are fascists, they are racists are far-right. I'm saying they're wrong. Am I wrong? I wish. Make a counter-proposal to those who think that mayors and local communities are right and that the government's proposal is a proposal, which has no sense, is a madman of Musala. What is the counterproposal? There isn't. And I'm telling you, yes, we'll do hot spots, in Samos and in Mytilini. But I'm telling you what I said at the mayor's meeting, that the fact that we're gonna have a hot spot...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u229	That's not called hot spot.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u230	I'm sorry, gentlemen. I mean an emergency center, Mr. Varvitsiotis, excuse me. If it happens inside the hot spot, it will be a cause to ask questions, because the hot spot is burning. I warned it. There's another place for the pre-retirement center, off-the-spot. Corinth is an emergency center and has a four or five-year-old function - that is, we found it. In these five years, there have been thirty or two riots and it's burnt. Therefore, as a government, we insist on our proposal and remain open to any other proposal. Let me submit a few documents. Here are all the issues about asylum. Let me tell you about the asylum that yes, it's late. I think there's nothing else going on objectively, even though there could be an improvement, not as huge as you imagine. Don't blame the Asylum Service. In this we may have a responsibility, little one. But maybe. Don't blame the Asylum Service. Ten thousand relocations and two other thousand are ready to happen. Seven and a half thousand voluntary transfers, four thousand eight hundred dublins, relocations to Europe. That makes us twenty-two thousand. The twenty-two thousand who have legally left Greece are twenty-two camps less. We want to do other things like that. Help the Asylum Service. Now, gentlemen, I will for the first time give you the letters that the Greek Government, through me, sent to Mr Avramopoulos, to all the ministers of the Interior, with whom I work, namely working with the Council, Mr Timerman, with which we are asking, because of the special circumstances, until the pre-emptive centres on the islands are fixed, that we can get people from the islands in the pre-experimental centres in the inland, without leaving the agreement. It's an effort we've been making since August. I have believed, along with Mr Xydakis and with Mr Toska, seventeen Ministers of the Interior. We have sent two letters to Turkey. What else can we insist on? The other is to make war, to go and understand Brussels or to make war with Turkey. We're trying too hard. I will present to you the plan that we have drawn up with the European Commission and for which we and them are judged, which has various elements in it, such as how EASO should operate, such as our asylum. We have responded. It puts it that for every month there will be two thousand relocations in the countries of Europe. That is what we are trying to implement, that is what we are judging. Finally, let me give you two - three more things. They are the calls of former, even, officials of the New Democracy, former mayors on islands that were never SYRIZA, former Presidents of the youth of the New Democracy, who are practically building foreheads against Muslimism, against the Muslimisation of the islands, to leave all the refugees and all that. If you go inside facebook and so on, you'll find them, it's nothing special. Finally, Mr Varvitsiotis, listen, I will also present this. Mayor of Rhodes to Mr Varvitsiotis: "Didn't you ask?" You don't know, ask.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u231	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u232	You have the floor, Mr Varvitsiotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u233	I, Mr President, have asked. I asked the Minister how the hospitality centre of Rhodes operates, as I asked about each one, what it costs, what it is, what contracts he has drawn up, who commands it, what its rules of procedure are. And you know what I got from the Minister as an answer? I also applied for paperwork with this. I got philosophical answers. No answer from the spokesman otherwise and most challenging Minister. No answer, no contract. You're apologizing, Mr. Muzala, for the $1 billion. Mr Avramopoulos, before you, came on 15 January and said that the European Union had allocated 1 billion. Today you deny it, you say it doesn't exist. Why didn't you tell Mr. Avramopoulos? Why didn't you tell Mr. Avramopoulos in front of you in statements to your ministry? The European Commission is making it every two months - I unfortunately do not have it, Mr President, to submit it, I have only electronically, Mr President - the overall list of funds which it has allocated and what it will make available. They don't even care about you! What do you have to tell us? You have brought statements from a number of executives, ex-masters, anti-masters or anything on the facebook. Is that your job, Mr. Muzala? Are you watching what every citizen says on facebook? Is that your job? Your job is to worry and do! And don't come here to apologize all the time for your inability! You're incapacitated! You have shown the maximum degree of incapacity, which you have confessed to for the islands. And you're talking about the five, seven, or whatever months. You've wasted time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u234	Good, Mr. Varviticotti!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u235	SYRIZA is in power two years and you are apologies as a government as a whole. Do not tell me that you are not a politician, because you are the longest-lived minister who has managed this problem for eighteen months and the results of your policy are seen every day.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u236	Thank you, Mr. Varvichiotis. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to this House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after being informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS", forty-four students and students and two teachers from the 2nd General School of Chania (second section). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] You are attending the end of a meeting, which is under parliamentary control. Is the government asking about a number of issues? Today a question has been put by the Centro Association around the immigration - refugee issue. We're at the end of the process. Mr Megalomustakas from the Central Association will be given the floor for a moment and the Minister will be closed for a short time. Here you go, Mr. Big-fashioned, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u237	I would like to say that I am pleased with what I have heard from the Minister, as I have understood, that the problems we have raised exist. You may disagree with the way we put them. But the problems we have posed, you have admitted that they exist. Therefore, this is also an answer to Mr Cameroon, who considered that perhaps this is not the main problem on these islands. It's your opinion. Our view is that it is very important and perhaps the most important one. Everyone has their own way of seeing things and no confrontation. Tourism, of course, goes better this year. No one said it was going worse than last year. It's just not what we want. We are here to always ask the best for the country. And you are here, because you are Minister and Member of the Government and you have the ultimate responsibility. Therefore, you and the addressees of all complaints will be. It's, unfortunately or happily part of your work. We came here today to highlight these problems, to fight for the best. And that's the only given thing. We are not zero, we have never been and I am not in favour of Members of other parties saying that there is no improvement. And of course there's an improvement. That's what we lacked, we'd go for the disaster. The money they have fallen in Greece is a lot. We think it could go better. There have been some phenomena which Members have also denounced, both for practices that have been followed and for procedures. There are. I don't want to talk about it. I have an example from my place, which has been a big deal. What we want is to help you - not you - to help the country. To have a consensus, however, both sides must want it. I will take the documents you have submitted in the Minutes and I believe that everyone in the Central Association will study them and check what you have given us, to continue as we have to continue, always in the light of the good of Greece. And I'll close because I don't want to take any more time. At some point you said, 'if the agreement continues', because we know - as you know - that the Turks are unfortunately not stable. It's an unstable factor. I would like you to make a committee, a board of intergroups, so that we all have a plan b together. I think it is necessary, because we see the situation between Turkey and Greece in recent days or basically in recent years, since these two states have existed. I would therefore like you to take this into account. In fact, there may have been disagreements. I am happy for today's debate, because the matter has been raised. I think we've achieved our goal. You have accepted the problems that we have presented and I hope you will try for the best. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u238	Thank you, Mr. Megalustakas. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u239	I'll be very brief. In fact, I think in the end it was a creative conversation, everyone took something, gave something. Two things: Do not ask the Minister for Migration Policy or the Government, when we fight with nails and teeth, with all our diplomatic forces to ensure that the Europe-Turkey agreement applies, and we demand that each party do its obligations, such as we do our own, editing or announcing any other project. It's something you can understand. We are "one-way" oriented there. We do not want it to go to Europe, to Turkey, to think that 'these things can be done anyway'. I'm done with nothing. Mr. Varvichiotis, I forgot to say that you spoke again about border guarding. Think it over. There's not much to do at sea. We're getting from NATO a reward from FRONTEX. At sea or sink or save. We don't sink, we save. One more thing. I didn't feel apologizing at the moment. It is true that many times when one speaks with you one feels accused. However, if you have received from me "reasonable", you have received a mistake.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u240	I have the honour to announce to the House that the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity submitted to Parliament the text of the International Labour Recommendation number 204 and titled "Recommendation on the transition from informal to official economy", adopted by the 104th International Conference on Labour (June 2015). Members concerned may request copies of Parliament's Legislative Works Directorate. The debate on the number 8/2-2-2017 topical question on the extreme situation of the islands of the North Aegean is closed because of increased migratory flows. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-24-S1-commons.u241	With the consent of the House at 16.25 minutes, the meeting for the next Wednesday, March 1, 2017, at 10.00, on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny: a special plenary session of Parliament for the seventy years of the Integration of the Dodecanese in Greece and a decision on the 2017 declaration as the Dodecanese year, according to the special agenda distributed. The meeting will be honoured by S.A.'s presence. the President of the Republic, Mr Prokopios Pavlopoulos.
