ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: ‘Under the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of the Philippines, of the other part’. The draft was adopted by a majority in the Standing Committee. It is introduced to the House in accordance with the procedure laid down in Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure, namely those who object to the ratification of this agreement. However, because four ministerial amendments have been tabled, Nos 1083/13, 1089/14, 1090/15 and 1091/16, as well as a parliamentary amendment, No 1092/17, I propose first that those who voted against or expressed reservations and the Minister responsible for five minutes should be placed at the beginning of the agreement and then that the amendments with the Parliamentary Representatives, the rapporteurs and the special speakers and the Ministers responsible should be discussed and everyone should speak for five minutes. Do you agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u2	Open a list, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u3	What list do you want? You will ask for the floor and because you are an Independent MEP, you will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u4	Madam President, could I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u5	Madam President, I too would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u6	What do you both want?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u7	What does 'you two' mean, Madam President?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u8	Gentlemen, I say you have been appointed either a speaker or a parliamentary representative?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u9	Don't you have the paper in front of you to see who's assigned?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u10	No, I'm asking you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u11	I'm asking you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u12	Well, list won't open. Anyone who wants to talk will give him the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u13	Madam President, may I?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u14	What do you want, Mr. Kegeroglu?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u15	I would like to ask whether we can take the floor on an amendment or two.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u16	Yeah, you'll take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u17	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u18	Madam President, may I?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u19	What do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u20	Madam President, the five minutes you say may satisfy some parties that have nothing to say about the agreement and agree with it. However, we must also talk about the agreement and the amendments, in no case will the time be enough.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u21	No, it is another five minutes for the agreement and another five minutes for the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u22	Okay, thanks.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u23	Mr Constantinople has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u24	Madam President, we have five amendments, as I understand it, with the MEP. For a ministerial, the Ministry of the Environment, I don't see a minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u25	When the time comes, he'll be here. Do you think he won't come and suggest her? There's no way like that. Does the House agree with the proposed procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u26	The House therefore agreed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u27	Madam President, I have some legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u28	Mr. Minister wants to table some legislative improvements. You have the floor, Mr Amanatidis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u29	At the end of the title of the draft law, the words ‘and other provisions’ are added. The second of the draft law shall be recast as follows: ‘The validity of this Law shall start with its publication in the Official Journal of the Government, unless otherwise specified in its individual provisions and in the Agreement ratified, following the fulfilment of the conditions of Article 57(1).’.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u30	The first party that has expressed reservation is the Democratic Reconciliation. Mr. Constantinople has the floor for five minutes. For the deal.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u31	As you know, our custody is because we always have surprises from the government with amendments. As to the agreement, we say 'NAH'. Let the process go forward so that we can get the time after the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u32	The representative of the Golden Dawn has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u33	Thank you very much, Madam President. As far as ratification is concerned, what we have to say is that our relations with the Philippines have always been quite good. The Philippines now faces the serious problem of extremist Islamic terrorism within them with armed conflicts. It is one of the countries of the South-East Asian Union, which is rapidly growing. The question here is: The interest in penetration is mainly from the countries of the European North. The countries of the European North, through multinationals, are trying to exploit and promote economic and business interests. What's the point? The Philippines has a very low cost in their production. In the Philippines, 1/5 lives in slums and 30% lives below the poverty line. The problem is: the European Union is trying to infiltrate South-East Asian countries, to have low costs, to serve the interests of some large companies, some large multinationals, particularly Northern Europe. Our general concern in this ratification is this: what Europe are we talking about? We have asked this too many times. For the Europe of Germany's hegemony? What Europe are we talking about? What we have said so many times, the Golden Dawn, is that we want a Europe of nations. We see that there are solutions in the European Union right now. We see that too many states are reacting to what is considered the European Union at the moment. We are talking at the moment about a European Union in which extreme poverty, unemployment, Islamisation, the deficit of democracy, and the hegemony of Germany actually prevail. We do not see what you are saying that the European Union is dealing with the European Union's demographics. With Europe's demographic problem. For all these reasons, we are negative in politics and the European Union. What we are proposing and what we are advocating are national solutions rather than European solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u34	The JRC has the floor for Mr Vardalis, who is voting against.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Madam President. We don't have any thoughts. We are vertically opposed to such agreements. Why? Because they have nothing to do with the interests of the peoples of all sides. On the contrary, at the centre, I would say at the core of these agreements is to safeguard the interests of business monopolies. What is the ruthlessness of the European Union with such agreements? But you say so yourself in the explanatory statement. The European Union's aim is to have access to the Philippines market. That's what this is about. Given the nature of the European Union itself, which was built up as an association of capitalist countries, to defend precisely that, the interests of its business groups, that is, its own monopolies. So, on the basis of this nature, such agreements are cut and stitched to the interests of its multinational groups. People have nothing to gain, as I said before. Instead, they will bleed more and more to ensure the profitability of these business groups. Secondly, we disagree: there are major imperialist competitions in the region. What is the aim of the European Union with such agreements? Do not find European monopolies, European business groups at a disadvantage in relation to those of Americans, Russians, Chinese, Japanese and go by saying. We're talking about huge interests in the area. I don't have time to analyse. After all, the European Union is active in this region and has relations with the Philippines. The issue for the people, in our opinion, is not what interests European, American or Chinese will prevail, but how the people will take advantage of these contradictions in the Imperialist countries, so that Imperialism can be defeated overall. Thirdly, the points that exist in the explanatory statement, such as, for example, that through this agreement, energy security, arms-sharing, terrorism and others are guaranteed. In our view, only as a challenge for the people can such points be taken into account. War and capitalist profitability go hand in hand. The European Union cannot guarantee the peace and security of its people. What it wants is the security of profits, the interests it represents, namely its own business groups and nothing more. Finally, because you claim that Greek interests are being safeguarded, I would like to say the following: Propose the national to cover the class approach of things. In other words, shipping and tourism will benefit. Who will benefit from shipping, for example? The seamen or the shipowners? Who will benefit from tourism? Are the workers or funds active in this sector? I think, for us at least, it's clean who wins, life shows it itself. Both are not done and we have examples in both specific sectors. The aim, in our view, is to safeguard the interests of Greek capital. And for all these reasons, we are voting against this agreement. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u36	Mr. Saridis, from the Centroon Association, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u37	Madam President, we are positive about the ratification of the agreement in the Union of Centres. We would, however, like, during our speech on the amendments to give us some time more to put us beyond the five minutes that you have given. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u38	Now the Minister has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Madam President. As far as I understand it, there is the broadest consensus in the agreement. Just two words, of course, have been said. This agreement is an open agreement, i.e. it belongs to those agreements jointly concluded by the European Union and its Member States with third States or international organisations and, of course, requires ratification by Parliament. This agreement lays the foundations for enhanced cooperation between both sides, as well as for effective partnership. What are the issues? In addition to trade or investment, in the field of political dialogue, there are provisions and human rights against weapons of mass destruction of terrorism, in the fields of trade and investment, in the economy, in cooperation to achieve sustainable development, in the fields of justice and security, in the fields of immigration, illegal immigration and readmission. However, there are issues and articles that are of interest to us in the Greek interests too. It is tourism in Article 42, maritime transport in Article 38, energy in Article 33, cooperation from irregular immigration and readmission in Article 26 and, of course, deepening sectoral cooperation and agreement in the fields of trade and investment for small and medium-sized enterprises in Article 37, employment and social affairs, and intercultural and trans-European dialogue. I think that this ratification will have positive results for our country as well. As far as the general ideological aspect of who benefits is concerned, the States are obliged. The relations between the States exist on the basis of the treaties signed and this is what our country is doing. There's no other way to do this thing. Now, if they share or go, it is an internal matter - I believe - of every state. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, you are asking to ratify this agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u40	I shall now give the floor to the Ministers to propose the amendments. I start with the first amendment, which is timely and has been tabled on 28 June 2017. It is presented by the Ministers, Mr Gavroglou, Mr Kotzia, Mr Tsakalotos and Mr Quik, and it is a provision concerning the procedure, supporting documents and other matters for the issue of a letter of consent of the Greek Government for the stay of new Greek nationals in Australia, pursuant to the provisions of a memorandum of understanding on the theories of entry for the mobility of young people. Mr. Quick has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Madam President. On 14 May 2014, an agreement was signed with the Australian Government by the then Minister of Tourism Mr. Olga Kefaloyannis. I will not tell you that I am one of those happy ones who spend two and a half years and until this agreement is ratified in the Greek Parliament, which, as you can see, is extremely important for five hundred Greeks who can go to Australia to work, but also to make their holidays, to meet other worlds, to meet other cultures. On my last trip, what I did in Australia and discussing with Foreign Minister Julie Bishop was the first topic he raised on the table at our debate, namely when Parliament will ratify the issue of Work and Holiday Visa. So today we are bringing it into ratification as an amendment, and I must tell you that one of the reasons for the delay is that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs does not want to bring any amendments to the unrelated bills. We waited for the opportunity to get something to do with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It's the ratification of the agreement with the Philippines. We are bringing it today and I hope that it will be unanimous on the part of the Greek Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u42	The second amendment has been tabled by the Finance Ministers and states that it has been extended since the end of the year until 31 June 2019 the guarantee of the Greek State to the Bank of Greece to cover credit through the Extraordinary Reality Mechanism to banks based in Greece. Mrs Papanatsiou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u43	With regard to the time-limit for the guarantees provided for in paragraph 1 of Article 1 of the Act of Accession ‘Financial Regulation’, ratified by Article 1 of Law 4031/2011, as amended and in force, and extended until 30 June 2019. Entry into force of paragraph 1 shall be defined as 1-7-2017. The Greek State guarantee to the Bank of Greece to cover credits to the domestic banking system through ELA was initially granted by a ministerial decision. From there on, the next extensions are all with legislative regulations, and that is why we are coming back under legislation on extension. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u44	Okay. The next one relates to provisions concerning the remuneration of the pilot-in-command and the implementation of procedures for the award and execution of all contracts, supplies and services by the pilot-in-commands. Mr Nektarios Santorinios will be presenting the amendment. She's late. Mr. Santorinier, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment we are tabling today is a very important amendment to ensure the smooth operation of the Pilot Agency. It is a service that ensures proper operation of ports, safety at ports, safety at sea and safety at sea. Paragraphs 1 and 2 of the Amendment clarify the payroll scheme of the pilot-in-command, with the express exception of Article 28 of Law No4354/2015. This will ensure a positive exception to the salaries of the naval staff of the Pilot Agency and can therefore continue to be paid to date. It is important to say that the costs of the Pilot Office are not borne by the state budget but by the capital of the Pilot Agency, which comes from the services provided to the vessels that are obliged to operate. Paragraph 3 of the amendment also concerns the possibility of local navigating stations to conclude consumable supply contracts up to the amount of 60,000 per OEM per year, up to 31-12/2017 and up to EUR 60,000 per month for the Piraeus navigator. I think that at this point it is worth focusing on the need for a service contract, which essentially concerns the conclusion of lorries lease contracts at regional stations, and that is because the pilot service does not have sufficient means to provide this project. This has been done, because the last shipwreck supply was made in 2003, and the fleet of the Pilot Agency as a whole has been devalued. We are already going through the process of supplying seven navigators and at the same time the 10-machine supply procedure, so that five navigators can re-engine and serve the need to provide a service by the Navigation Service. So I urge you to vote on this amendment, because I think it is a very important regulation to ensure the proper functioning of the Pilot Office, especially now in the summer where there is a special need for cruise ships too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u46	Finally, it is the amendment that Mr Stathakis will stand up for, which refers to a suspension for 12 months of all kinds of administrative and enforcement acts against the EGF. It is also late and has been tabled by the Finance, Justice, Environment and Finance Ministers. Mr. Stathakis, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u47	We are trying to resolve a problem that has arisen with this amendment. The problem, of course, has very deep roots in the past. I would remind you that the IGM was abolished by the government of Samara and the current government decided to reopen it as early as 2015. We considered and believe that there is a need for EGME, a public body, that is to say, which deals with all the issues of the country's geographical interest. Now the IGM is at a point where it cannot function at the moment as it bears financial burdens which also come from the past and which have led to judicial decisions, which have committed all the accounts of the IGM. The problem is simple. In addition to the public pensions and public benefits of each worker in the wider public sector, the pensioners of EGMM have in the past had in addition to the public pensions and public benefits of each worker in the public sector. They had a special insurance program, pension, with a private insurance company, which at some point ended gloriously. The pensioners then demanded the private pension scheme to be settled beyond the private company's reserve and attempted to continue this programme with public money, i.e. to be served by the public budget. Our ministry's position was negative to this development. The pensioners then succeeded in seizing the accounts of the EGF on the basis of these judicial decisions. This led to a suspension, to a complete paralysis of the IGM, as it cannot pay workers' wages, owe - I think - three months. There is now a real risk of losing the FGMD's programmes, which are an important part of its budget, and the Agency's administration has resigned on the day after tomorrow's budgets were seized. With this amendment we have introduced for twelve months the incompatibility of the EGMM accounts, which will allow tomorrow, firstly, the workers to be paid and, secondly, the new administration to be placed in the EGMM and the agency to be properly reopened. This space and this solution is clearly temporary, as with the establishment of the new administration, the long-term problems that I mentioned before will be solved, trying to give a definitive and irrevocable solution to this issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u48	Now I will give the floor to the special speakers, too, for five minutes. First, I will give the floor to the representative of SYRIZA, Mr Maria Triantafyllou.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Madam President. I am going through the amendments very quickly. We agree with the amendments and with regard to youth mobility. We had said, when it had come to be ratified, that youth mobility is an attractive concept but there must be preconditions. The presence of the family is important and we take it into account. So we are saying 'yes' to this amendment and to the next. However, I would like to dwell on the last amendment in relation to the IGM. It is, in fact, a political decision that the reopening, re-establishing of the EGM. It is a valuable tool for productive reconstruction. We do not forget what happened in the past few years, how the IGM was degraded by service and slowly in 2015, with the SYRIZA Government being re-established. However, I would like to make two comments. IGME, as the Minister said, has arrived here and charged the previous ones. On account of this time it was an insurance contract given. There have been final and irrevocable judicial decisions of the Ice Arena which warrant the beneficiary of 2009. Everything doesn't work anymore. It's in the air, I think, 1.5 million euros. And this amendment is coming. I'd like to say a few things. I think it is necessary, if there is still this way of retirement, for there to be a regulation - if there has not been, I do not know, propose it to the Minister - that this stops it. So far, there have been all these tricks in relation to wages, pensions, etc., that I am giving an allowance or that, for example, this is actually a trick. First, that's it. Secondly, there are judicial decisions that need to be made, because they are irreversible and the money should be given. Thirdly, I have the impression that we need a control of things and a reorganisation of competences and a review and a new direction for the EGMG, precisely because we are talking about a valuable instrument. There is a sub-commitment, but without the new direction - let us not go as old - which should be delimited by the government and the Ministry, we cannot talk about recruitment in general and vaguely. I would therefore say that there is a need for legislation, which will put a knife to the previous one, which, for those who are or are retired, is a fait accompli. Fourthly, I think we should urgently not just have a new administration, precisely because it can save some time, some money, etc. And set the IGM up on his feet, but I think there should be, again, redefinition and re-start. This, in my view, cannot be done without accountability. I repeat that it is an important, valuable tool for productive reconstruction. We agree with the amendment, although you will allow me to say that it is probably a tick in the wound, because, in my opinion, there should be a design, which should be complete for the operation of the EGMM from now on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u50	Mr Kavadas has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Madam President. As regards the first amendment by the Ministries of Education, Foreign Affairs and Finance on the issues that are being regulated about the stay of our young people in Australia, we are in agreement and we are voting in favour of it. The memorandum of understanding signed, as the Minister said, on May 14, 2014 between Greece and Australia in Campera, Australia, on New Democracy, and by Ms Kefaliannis, is beneficial to our country, because it gives young people the opportunity to stay and work in Australia and to familiarize our young people with the culture, language and society of the other country. This agreement also improves cooperation and relations between the two countries, which is very important, given the size of the Greek community in Australia. As regards the second amendment, on 1089/14, of the Ministry of Finance, which extends the Greek State guarantee to the Bank of Greece and the credit cover through the Extraordinary Reality Mechanism, the so-called ELA, it is understood that for the safe and smooth operation of the Greek banks it is necessary to vote. This is a formal procedure provided for in the rules of operation of the Eurosystem and of the ELA itself and, therefore, the New Democracy is in favour of voting on this amendment. For the third amendment, on 1090/15, by the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy, which mentions the payroll of seafarers, but also the conclusion of contracts by the Navigation Agency, we understand, Minister, the need to update the legal framework for the payment of the employees of the Navigation Service and to allow the service to make contracts for fuel and consumable supplies to work smoothly. Nor do we disagree with the financial limits up to EUR 60,000 set for the Piraeus naval station and the rest of the 12 stations in the region. The New Democracy is therefore in favour of this amendment. For the fourth amendment, on 1091/16, the amendment by the Ministry of the Environment and Energy, I stress that the administrative and enforcement measures against the movable and immovable property of the Institute for Geological and Mining Research, of the IGM, have been suspended for a period of 12 months. Your aim is, as you say, to ensure the smooth operation of the HEME and this continues to provide services. However, in reality what you are doing today with this amendment is to give a temporary solution, Minister, for twelve months. You told us at the end of May 2017 that the whole issue will be solved by legislation that you would bring by the end of June, abolishing today's GAMM and putting new administration to the new GAMM, so that the prizes are paid in July 2017. Today, however, you do not really solve the problem. Just give me an extension of life, a breath to the only suffocation of IGM, unblocking the bank accounts, so that the staff can be paid and the IGM will be back in operation. Once again, then, the government takes decisions to solve the problems of the EGMM a year ahead, possibly handing it over to the next government. For all this New Democracy in this amendment is voting 'at present', since we do not want to stand in the way of paying employees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u52	Mr. Constantinople has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Madam President. The fourth amendment concerning the Ministry of the Environment and the questions and the procedure will be discussed by Mr Kegeroglu. As far as Amendment No 1088/13 is concerned, we agree with the suggestion and say 'yes'. With regard to the second amendment proposed by Mrs Papanatsiou, we would just like to remind her that we need to proceed with this process today, because we do not have quantitative relaxation. You understand that, but unfortunately it is a reality, a success of your Government that you are here today, to ask for the validity of the guarantee to continue. With regard to Amendment No 1090/15 concerning the remuneration of pilot staff, we would like to say to you, Minister, that you are doing the same thing Mr Varvitsiotis did two years ago. You don't make a great success. You haven't corrected anything in two years. Do what he had done - the first exception - in 2014 Mr Varvitsiotis. We are also saying 'yes' in this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u54	Mr. Kouzilos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u55	Thank you very much, Madam President. For Amendment No 1088/13 on the issue of Australia, we say'represent' so that this major problem can finally be resolved. For the amendment with a general number of 1089 on the support mechanism, of course, we cannot consent to Memorandum commitments and issues relating to banks. For the amendment of a general number 1091 concerning IGM, that was done away with by the New Democracy together with the PASOK. From now on we are waiting to see what will happen with this very serious issue. Because all the geological studies and all the wealth of our country were based on EGME. I am sorry, Minister, but it is two years and we are now solving the problem and we have still not solved this particular problem. It's been two years. It was a commitment of yours when you were opposition. Finally, I should like to end by making the amendment with a general number of 1090 for the Pilot Office. We also state that it is 'the present'. Here, however, there are some questions. What are you going to do with the pluralism that is currently in the Navigation Agency? There are royal decrees governing the founding law of the Pilot Agency. What are you going to do about the 'COSCO' issues? The pressures I believe are too great, the European Union has taken a stand and we know that. When the PPA was sold to 'COSCO', it was the first thing it had heard on the street and it sounded even before, i.e., that it wanted to build its own state. And thirdly, because you said there were no navigators, there were no navigators. Should you see the matter a little before 2004, the navigators that were there how they were acquired, what was there, who were rotting in the port? Because that was a great scandal, it was huge the sums given at the time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u56	Mr Vardalis has the floor from the JRC.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to remind you, Minister, that we have also voted against the Memorandum of Cooperation at that time. Why? Mobility is a great deal of talk. Why was it established in our lives? What was the aim of business groups? He had to find cheap and skilled workforce, anywhere in the world. That is the essence of the matter. For the same reasons, we will also vote against this amendment. The second, which concerns ELA, is intended to ensure the adequate liquidity of the credit system with the guarantee of the State. We understand that your priority is to support the banks, because in the system that you all support, it is a necessary pillar for its operation. Of course, the so-called Extraordinary Support Facility is a decisive tool in this direction. We are firmly opposed and will vote against it. With regard to the third regarding the Pilot Agency, for us this sector is of strategic importance and should be exclusively public and should remain public. Why do we say so, Minister, since you're here? We also call for the government's commitment to this issue. Because 'COSCO' and other business groups seek to be privatised. Not only should it remain public, but all those measures should be taken in order to fully serve and secure the financial resources to improve the infrastructure in general, but also the payroll of workers. We shall vote for this amendment. Why? Because it is faced with an unjustified, in our view, lack of pay for the workers. The matter must be resolved immediately. Finally, for the fourth and last amendments concerning the IGM: Minister, it is not an observation, but in any case the workers themselves have asked, before you table the amendment, to see it. You sent her after you filed her to the House. Why am I saying that? Let's say, the workers disagree with paragraph (c) and we disagree. As formulated, it is suspended for interim measures and, in our opinion, you should withdraw it, because it is in practice suspended and the right of workers to resort to insurance measures. You told us when you presented the amendment that workers would be paid tomorrow. What if they're not paid? Don't workers have the right to take insurance measures? You say they'll be paid. How many ministers have said they will be paid by now? Why remove this right from the workers? Why are you swinging your head? You'll take the floor and you'll explain. In our opinion, in any case, this whole history you mention with the evolution of EGMM, this deterioration whether you like it or not, objectively facilitates the delivery of mineral wealth to business groups with a view to their profitability. And if this deterioration continues, I say that we will necessarily go in that direction. Next what you said at the beginning. But you need to take all the necessary steps to implement, that is to say continue the research work of the IGM and all the actions of the Institute. When we say directly, we say immediately, tomorrow, that is to say, that the administration should enter and pay the workers. Finally, I would like to say this, in any case, the racing readiness of workers, the pressure on the government, the continuing mobilisations in the last three months have shown once again that they can produce results. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, too. Mr Constantine Katsikis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Madam President. I shall begin with Amendment No 1088 and special 13, developed by the Minister, Mr Quik, on the issue of a letter of consent by the Greek Government for the stay of the new Greek nationals in Australia, pursuant to the provisions of a memorandum of understanding. I will say that it is a common desire to strengthen the ties between Greece and Australia and this joint desire has led the governments of the two countries to sign a memorandum of understanding on 14-5-2014, which aims to familiarise the young people of these countries from eighteen to thirty-one years with culture, language and culture of the other country. The provisions of this Memorandum lay down the conditions for the eligibility of Greeks and Australians respectively in order to obtain a temporary residence permit from the competent authorities of the Host Party. This amendment therefore gives the power to establish, by common ministerial decision, the documents of the alleged infringement and any other matters necessary for the delivery of the letter, by means of the Greek Government's declaration of consent concerning the stay of new Greek nationals in Australia, as laid down in the Memorandum of Understanding signed between the Governments of Greece and Australia. I would also like to point out here that the proposed amendment does not cause expenditure to the State budget and of course we are voting in favour of it. With regard to the second amendment, under the general number 1089 and special 14, which was developed by the Deputy Minister of State, Mrs Papanatsiou, I have to add that in order to ensure the adequate liquidity of our credit system, the legal instrument of 14-9-2011, which was ratified by Law 4031/2011, guaranteed by the Greek State to the Bank of Greece to cover credits to domestic banks, has been provided by the 14-9-2011 Act of law, which was ratified by Law 4031/2011, the Greek State guarantee to the Bank of Greece to cover credits to domestic banks, in a possible temporary problem of their liquidity, provided that they remain sound. The proposed provision does not introduce, but modifies the time force of the guarantees, which expired on 30-6-2017. It comes here - and I think it is important to say it - revenues in the state budget from the collection of the commission in favour of the Greek State for the guarantees provided. The possible expenditure in the event of a breach of the guarantees granted for the period provided for in the provision may not exceed 90 billion. And on this point - before finishing my position on this amendment - I would like to say that I was amazed by the position of my colleague in the Democratic Alliance when he said that this extension is being made because we are not in quantitative relaxation. But if that is the case, then the PASOK-New Democracy coexistence, which is affected by putting the country in quantitative relaxation in 2013, why has it not calmed this provision so that it does not guarantee the Greek State the 90 billion if the banking system is at risk? As far as the amendment is concerned, under a general number of 1090 and a special 15 of the Minister of State, Mr Santorini, we are of course voting in favour of it, because this amendment clarifys the provisions in force, so that the operation of the Pilot Agency can continue without delay and ensure the smooth payment of the salary of the seafarer's staff, as well as the proper operation of the supply of consumables and fixed materials. Furthermore, with the above amendment, the pilot service retains the necessary operational competence of the pilot plants in the ground so that it is efficient to carry out the duties of seafarers in accordance with the objectives set by the service itself. Nor are there any budgetary burdens caused by this amendment in the state budget. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Allow me a moment, Madam President, to conclude with the amendment number 1091 and the Minister of State's special number 16. The Institute for Geological and Mining Research, the IGM, an institutionalised State Institution for the Research and Evaluation of Mineral Raw Materials - is financed by the State, managing state and European funds for the fulfilment of its objectives - due to the unforeseen change in economic conditions has resulted in a failure to meet the financial requirements of the State, resulting in the suspension of its functions, the suspension of the staff’s payroll, as the Minister said, and there is a clear risk of loss of ESDP programmes. For reasons of greater public interest, it therefore appears absolutely necessary to protect it provisionally in a manner provided for in the proposed provision, i.e. by suspending administrative and enforcement measures to the detriment of its movable and immovable property for a period of 12 months, where the irreconcilable property is also to have. I conclude, therefore, by saying that the proposed provision is, of course, a lack of revenue collection, but the guarantee that the Institute operates properly will benefit the national economy by making use of the country's mineral wealth, which we are also voting for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u60	Mr. Saridis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u61	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, what I am about to say has become tiring, but I think we have the responsibility of repeating it at some point too. The inability of the political system to stand up to the circumstances continues to disappoint our fellow citizens. Yesterday, for example, in this Chamber some of our fellow citizens expected political leaders to hear about the economy. Instead, they saw once again the re-exchange of categories and designations. So the Greeks are saddened by Parliament's image. They no longer give citizens the answers to the Greek Parliament. The words, which are heard in this Chamber, have lost their gravity, their seriousness, their value and, in general, the word in here is not credible. But where did all this start? Who made the start of all this? How did this start so we could get this far? The principle, ladies and gentlemen, has come from here, through the temple of democracy, through us MPs themselves every time we decide to make an exception to the rule, whenever we allow the arguments from dialogue, whenever we choose to "resolve" the letter of the law, in order to be indifferent to the spirit of the law. Every time, then, we manage to push Greek citizens a little further towards abstention, distance, indifference and resignation. The political reason in our country is unreserved. Nobody pays any attention anymore to what was said in the House. I don't think that's foreign to you. I think you all know that. And that is why no one else can be blamed, except for us representatives of this country's political system. Ladies and gentlemen, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the House, no amendments may be accepted to sanctions for international agreements, such as today. And yet, once again, we are here to discuss the amendments. That is why we are calling, not for the bill, which we spoke about earlier, but for the amendments which have nothing to do with this bill. While we should therefore discuss the effectiveness that the European Union can achieve when seeking to close agreements with third countries, such as the Philippines, we are forced to talk about the financial messes of the HEME. Instead of expressing our concerns about the protection of human rights in the country with which we conclude an agreement, we are obliged to talk about the legalisation of the necessary guarantees by the Greek State to the Bank of Greece so that we do not face a liquidity problem in the domestic banking system. So at a time when we should all be concerned about what Brexit might mean for the future of all these Europe agreements, which the United Kingdom has taken part in, we must argue with the delegation to three ministers so that, with another joint ministerial decision, they can identify important issues concerning the Greeks who leave for Australia. And while the summer season enters its peak, we now remembered to settle - the truth to be called - the wages of the naval staff of the pilot service. More specifically, the amendment of a general number 1088 and a specialist of 13 of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs comes at a late stage and with the delay of authorising three ministers to clarify by common ministerial decision what exactly will be the procedure for issuing a letter of consent of the Greek Government for the stay of new Greek nationals in Australia, according to what we have agreed with our Australians in a previous memorandum of understanding on entry visas for youth mobility. We cannot do anything other than vote in favour of this delegation so that we can be directly consistent with the signatures we have made on what we have promised. I am going to comment on the amendment with a general number of 1089 and a special number of 14. Remain until 30-6-2019 the Greek State's guarantee to the Bank of Greece to cover credit through the emergency liquidity mechanism to banks located in Greece. There's no other choice here. If we want the banks to have liquidity, we simply have to vote in favour and that is what we will do as a Centro Association, thereby taking on the responsibilities that we are responsible for defending the public interest. The amendment, under a general number 1090 and a special 15 of the Ministry of Shipping, does not hide from you that we have been troubled. Is there a lot of questions that arise from this amendment? Why these pay exceptions? Why these extensions? Why this delay? But, above all, will the problem be solved, or will we suddenly go to a new extension? What are we going to do, that is, when this new postponement is over? But acknowledging the importance of the work of the Pilot Office, we will also be voting in favour of this provision, waiting on the Minister's side to answer any of our questions. [[At this point, the Honourable Member's speech bell is ringing.]] One more minute, Madam President. Finally, with Amendment No 1091 we are giving another extension to another serious problem, to find a solution at some point in the future. The Institute for Geological and Mining Research is in a terrible financial situation. We all know that. Its operation, however, is extremely necessary for the interests of the Greek State, but of course also for the smooth operation of thousands of businesses. We will vote'residents' in this amendment. And we will vote 'at present' because there are some judicial decisions covering a portion of our citizens. You are bringing this amendment to cover another part of our citizens, who are not even sure that it will be covered by the vote on this amendment. You're putting us between, we decide to be the lifesaving in your ineffectiveness. So these frustrating phenomena will not be stopped unless we ourselves decide. Ladies and gentlemen, everything finally starts from what we do in this Chamber. Unfortunately, our fellow citizens who continue to believe that our debates in Parliament have something to do with one hand are now counted on the fingers of one hand. This depreciation of politics is largely due to many decisions that we have made in this Chamber of the Greek Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u62	Mr. Psariano has the floor. He's not here.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u63	I'll talk to you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u64	Mr. Danellis from the river has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Madam President. We shall be voting in favour of all four amendments. I just want to make one or two brief comments about some of them. With Mrs Papanatzi's second amendment, we recognise that the time-limit for normalising the banking system has been extended for two years with this, of course, for two years. With regard to the third amendment which Mr Santorinios supported, I would like to say that there is a timeless indifference for a critical service, such as the Pilot Agency, which has a crucial role to play in ensuring the proper functioning of every major port. One more thing when we expect so much from the development of the cruise. I should like to mention here - because it is a characteristic of this depreciation of the role of the Navigation Agency - that about a month and a half ago a very large cruise ship was forced to wait for a two-hour arrow outside the port of Piraeus, on a short-time scheduled visit, precisely because the workload was not allowed to respond therefore. We shall be voting in favour, as I said, of this amendment. But we believe, Minister, that the pilot service should have a plan for development and in-depth support for all the major ports that are required to provide services. Finally, in relation to the EGMF, I would like to say that it has essentially been cancelled in a role that is useful to the development model that we want to design and support to be sustainable. The IGME has a series of timeless sins that led to total disdain. I do not know whether, with this amendment, we can resolve some of the problems, in fact ensure that staff are fully covered in terms of the continuation of their presence and the provision of work. I fear, however, that it is not guaranteed, Minister. I am also afraid that these conditions will not find itself willing to take on a difficult task. I think this is the key to someone talking about the resolution and reorganisation of the EGMM, since we agree that it has a role to play. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u66	I am now going to give the floor to parliamentary representatives and speakers. I start with Mr. Kegeroglu, who is a speaker. Here, Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, Madam President. I shall speak exclusively about the amendment by the Ministry of the Environment, namely the regulation made by the Minister concerning the FAO. Some fifteen days ago, on a timely question, we discussed this issue in Parliament. We have called for solutions to the problems, namely to find a way to appoint an administration, to have a proper financial function, to pay the workers who have been unpaid for four months and, of course, to the OGM's obligations with regard to the NSRF programmes, but also to other programmes that he has undertaken, in order to strengthen his role and to be able to respond to them as well as to future projects. At the same time we asked for the matter to be resolved with regard to the insurance contract and the completion of the payment of the obligations. The Minister promised that a solution would be found to the question of administration and operation. It brings an amendment today, which is obviously not a solution. As everyone has seen - the speakers so far - are a change in the problem. It is a chip, indeed, and without sulfamide, which could do some work. Do you know the sulfamide dust?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u68	Do you have medical knowledge?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u69	Oh, well, they need medical knowledge! Minister, you are simply turning the problem over. You say: "Hey, twelve months, you don't get bored. That's enough time. It'll be late. It's going to roll, and in the meantime, you don't know what's going on. It may be regretted by those who deserve the right...’. No, that's not how it works. A concrete solution concerning all sides had to be given. In particular - except that you simply refuse final and irrevocable decisions to implement them, in addition to that - you do not ensure with the amendment that the confiscation of payroll accounts will be lifted tomorrow and that there will be administration. I'll tell you in particular. Because you spoke against the contract, why did you pay 600,000 euros for Minister Skourletis and 1,300 000 for your minister if the contract had not to be implemented? So in the middle you discovered that the contract should not be paid. Okay, it's an issue that, you know, gives rights and of course legal footprints. The regulation will have to speak clearly of a special irresponsible account - as you do in the intervening period - regarding payroll, social security contributions, payment of all operational contributions so that the institution can operate and, of course, there is the possibility of adjusting the payments due to pensioners as well. You could have had a regulation - after dialogue - in which you anticipate that in two, three, four, five years - the years you think this could be agreed and made clear - there will be the implementation of irreversible decisions. Are we now taking legislation and irreversible decisions? Does this fall within the general logic of respect for judicial decisions? Is this a contract involving one-off benefits, because it was done by a private company, as you accused the JRC of defending, allegedly, private companies? The National Insurance, which you sold for more than a day ago, was it private interests and you made that position? Well, to close, we're saying this arrangement is a switchover to the problem. We will not, however, allow the government to say that we have not helped to pay the workers. We say, yes, in these regulations on the transfer of the problem, and at the same time, we call for a regulation on all cases to be made. Indeed, it is the first time that I agree with a position taken by a majority of colleagues from the government that told the truth about an amendment. Because so far all Members have been saying 'yes' blindly in everything. It's a case where we can't do that doesn't exist. We should see after consultation how we really solve the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u70	I'll give the Minister the floor because it's urgent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u71	Don't leave us later.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u72	Minister, we have other issues to deal with.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u73	I have to go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u74	But he's gonna have to go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u75	I'll sit down ten more minutes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u76	Mr. Kefaliannis from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, Madam President. I shall start with the amendments immediately. Of course, I think we've become graphics by mentioning how to legislate again. If I exclude the first amendment relating to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs which deals with issues, we still see unnecessary amendments to bills. I hope at some point this process, this bad legacy will stop. I say it for now and for the future. As far as Amendment No 1089 is concerned, and I think we should say two words on the extension of the Greek State's guarantee to the Bank of Greece, to ensure through the emergency liquidity mechanism, the ELA, to the banks. Mr President-in-Office, Mr Janakopoulos' assurances about the rapid lifting of capital controls are still in our ears in the next few years. I think there is, unfortunately, no more evidence that the liquidity conditions of banks have not yet been restored and that is not foreseen by the near future, at least on the basis of this amendment. The fact, in other words, that the ELA shield is needed for a long time - until June 2019 - if anyone can interpret it, will see that, unfortunately, it is prolonging, or at least clarifying, the capital controls are here to stay and stay in the next few years. Unfortunately, it could not be done any differently, because only some time ago the Bank of Greece confirmed the deterioration of conditions in the economy and banks, with a great deal of money outflow due to the very long delay that had been observed as regards the failure to close the second assessment and, of course, the resulting increase in uncertainty. The question, of course, is why this assessment has been delayed. According to Mr. Juliarakis, we knew we couldn't get anything very specific about the debt. Of course, there was a debate yesterday at the level of the parties' leaders and I think the Greek people took their own conclusions. I shall also refer, of course, to the end of my speech, but I think at some point we should be telling truths in this Chamber. And, unfortunately, while we are obviously positive about this amendment - and our rapporteur has said so - the messages that are actually going through are the ones I described earlier. As regards Amendment No 1091, and Amendment No 16, first of all, Mr Minister, you will allow me to correct you. The IGM was not abolished. It was merged. In particular, the National Centre for Sustainable and Sustainable Development was established. And it would be very interesting to tell us, as the head of the Ministry, what money he has spent up to now for court expenses for a year now and for the famous contract. I'm telling you why there are reports that about a million and a half have been spent on legal expenses, expenses, etc. If it's something that's in your knowledge, please bring it in. And, of course, they are costs which have been one of the main causes currently found by the IGM in this situation so that we can come with the amendment to correct some things. The government is coming today, and instead of giving you subsidies - I will make a proposal to you - that particular institute or, as has been said - there was also this proposal - that there should be an unscrupulous account for the workers, that there should be no risk of the money being lost - that is to say, that it brings an amendment which only makes it possible to change the problem in time. Take it 12 months later. I'm going to say you're going 12 months later because until then politically who lives who dies. So we're going with the problem later, in the future, in the sense that...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u78	We'll live.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u79	We'll see where we'll be in a year. I'm sure it's not a good law, but it's certainly not a way to solve the problems. To the best of my knowledge, you have no way of giving a definitive solution to this issue to the workers and also to the pensioners who are concerned with this amendment. And the question is, what happens after a year? Will we come back here again with new amendments, new regulations, go back to the problem later, in the future? I have heard the Minister say that, at the present time, the new administration of the EGMM could be placed and a solution could be found. I wish that's why. Of course, the way you legislate - which is why we say 'present' - is not a way of giving a sustainable solution to the EGF. I come to the amendment with a general number of 1090 and a special 15. I would like you to give me a clarification on paragraph 3. The way in which it is formulated for at least sixty thousand is not clear to me. Is an exception to the procedure for public procurement? The way it's formulated isn't clear to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u80	In order not to be singled out by the Central Navigation Service but by local services each time, to make it easier to conclude a contract.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u81	Good. I shall conclude, Madam President, with a much shorter general position for yesterday's debate at the level of parties. I won't go into details. We heard a Prime Minister yesterday who actually reiterated his tactics of opposition to opposition to opposition. He has forgotten that for about two and a half years and three years he has led the government, so he should give the tone and not oppose the opposition. I am going to stand up to an issue that has given me a very big surprise. Yesterday we heard Mr. Kammenos provoke the Chief of Police Vice-President to proceed to a pre-examination committee on the case of NOOR 1. Mr Mitsotakis raised the glove and said, of course, that we should go to an inquiring overall for the case to see whether or not there are political responsibilities, so that there are no shadows that someone covers a businessman or that someone else may be against this businessman. The Prime Minister's answer, which, at least as a surprise to me, was as follows: 'In pending judicial cases, we cannot proceed to a committee of inquiry to investigate the scandal'. Because it happens and I'm a member of the Health Committee, that's where we don't have pending court cases? Novartis is not a pending court case? "Dynan" isn't a pending court case? Is the drug issue not a pending court case? Why is this bilingualism? It is not possible to hide behind our fingers and say that 'there is an pending court case, so I am negative to the setting-up of a committee of inquiry' and the other few months before we have set up a committee of inquiry - and we welcome it - which concerns pending judicial cases.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u82	Come on, Mr. Kefaliannis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u83	I shall conclude, Madam President. I think that the Prime Minister yesterday made a point about this issue. There's no coma in setting up a committee of inquiry. And be careful, we will explore possible political responsibilities. We're not going to get into the point of this case, because we can get into the point of this case. That is something about the courts and justice. If, however, there are political persons - because there have been serious complaints in this Chamber in many respects - about possible political involvement of persons, we must make a recommendation. You cannot hide behind a stand that is actually not based on real facts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u84	Mr Theocharopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u85	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, once again in ratification, there is the same debate on the amendments. We will not be tired of repeating it again that this is a debate which cannot be completed on such important issues as the ones we are discussing today in the amendments, many of which are, of course, for years. With regard to the four amendments, the rapporteur and Mr Kegeroglu spoke on behalf of the Democratic Alliance. In relation to the first amendment, Mr Quik, you really said with courage that there is a delay. Two and a half years is clear that it could not have been done. You don’t need to accompany her from the fact that you could bring her to another bill. You've been looking for a bill from the State Department. A lot of foreign ministry bills have come, and I mean contracts we've ratified. So we could have these two and a half years - and I am not talking about you alone - much faster than we could have done, which is actually delaying and, in any case, something that needs to be resolved. With regard to the amendment on the extension of the Greek State guarantee to the Bank of Greece, which is also related to liquidity, look, first of all - first of all - we will not be tired of stressing that your negotiation has led to a state of deadlock in this matter with liquidity. It has led to a dead end because the deposits that have left massively in 2015, capital controls are still in place today, the debt has not been resolved and the question of liquidity has not been put into quantitative relaxation. Because I hear some Members and the rapporteur of the ANELs, I think you are confused. We have not had the opportunity to enter quantitative relaxation since we entered the memos. The possibility of joining the quantitative relaxation we have had in recent years and we have lost it because of your negotiation. You're probably in confusion. We have lost the opportunity to join, so we have such issues, and we are constantly discussing how to resolve the issue, Mr Stathakis, of liquidity. This needs answers, because it is one of the main issues of the Greek economy, the lack of liquidity and, of course, the ineffective negotiation with the deadlocks and the year that you have lost it, so that at the end you can sign 5 billion additional loads of measures in relation to the memorandum signed in 2015, I think it shows this deadlock in the course that we have taken. But because we are talking about negotiation, Mr Stathakis, and really why do we need to take the dose in the next few days and stay six prerequisites, can you tell the Greek Parliament and our country what is going on with these six prerequisites? So where are we? This is the dose which has, moreover, been delayed so much. Why do we read that one of the prerequisites relates to the 800 million who are going to pay off public debts to private individuals and ask you how much the public owes for late pensions, how much taxes are being paid to the DUs and various other questions, which I think concern not only the partner creditors, concern the country, the Greek Members, who need to be informed about all these issues. Another pending issue is the legal opinion confirming that the pension cut voted for 2019 is in line with the Greek Constitution. You will give this prerequisite when you and the President of the Republic and government officials said that it is unconstitutional to pre-constitutional, and today to get the dose you must commit and have this legal knowledge. The opening-up of the engineering profession, to see what Mr Tsipras will do now and half the Ministerial Council, who are engineers of what has been committed. The operation of electronic auctions. Let me not remind you of what you were saying in this particular matter. And, of course, the issue of contractors, which asks you to say about the rule of five departures per intake, how you will reduce the contractors and what has been done with cleanliness. So, here you need to answer whether there is a problem and what is going on and tell Parliament whether we will normally get the amount left or whether you have to move directly on these two days to settle these issues, which some of them are exactly contrary to what you were saying. Finally, to close, on the EGF, we told you a moment ago and our Member of the European Parliament the responsible attitude that we will take. But, Minister, there must be a definitive regulation. Indeed, it is a tick, as the parliamentarian of the government majority said, not us. But why is it not that the commitment of the bills relating to the payroll of all the employees is not included? Can you give us a reply in relation to your amendment? At the same time, I should like to ask some questions very quickly about the amendment that we are debating. Have you legally evaluated the resistance of this amendment this year, or when after this year will you be legally judged or send the ball back to the platform by simply pushing the problem down below? Do you feel inclined to create a functional GAMM as they have other hundred and ninety-eight countries, useful and effective? The more than 12 million European programmes that you said were designed for the new ESDP and are on the way to final approvals, how will they be implemented by extending only one year, which is given today, and effectively flying, as I told you, the ball on the platform? Can the Ministry take a concrete initiative to consult pensioners' lawyers in order to find a compromise? And if he's tried, can you let us know or repeat it from a better base? Finally, how do you intend to deal with the claims that are constantly accumulating and increasing the economic demand from the public, but which are actually canceling the operation of the HEME? In its own right, the amendment which we shall vote on, as we have said, does not seem to give a definitive solution. That is why we are calling for specific commitments and answers to the questions that we are asking. Please respond, because it concerns the Greek Parliament, it concerns the country, what is going on in the matter of negotiation. The situation has reached the unprecedented, and even today we are talking about such prerequisites, which the Greek people cannot withstand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u86	Mr. Stathakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u87	Tonight I learned that the months that we put into the amendment are announcing elections and I was impressed. I thought that the New Democracy has now been renounced for the election and that it has been reconciled with reality. Today I saw that I should put twenty-seven months in the number in the amendment to make sure that the elections are held at the intended date at the end of the term of office. Obviously, it was not the amendment's concern, nor was it the amendment's concern in general, and if in twelve months who knows and so on. Secondly, as far as the evaluation is concerned, I think that your questions are directed directly at Mr Tsakaloto. I can assure you, however, that the loose ends will be closed, as many others have been closed, so there is no need to worry. Now for our placement on each of them or others, I think that the agreement is united, you know it, nothing has been hidden from anyone and the solutions that will be defendable will also be found on these issues. I now come to the issue of EGME. We in the question that had been asked ten days ago had precisely defined the three stages. First of all, the unleashing of all the accounts of the IGM. That is what is happening with the amendment today. It provides for a general suspension without exceptions. He takes over all the categories of creditors, the public, the workers, the third parties. For reasons of equal treatment and equality, it is impossible to provide for an exception from someone, unless you have such strong concerns. You implied that the ministers pay the IGM. The ministers don't pay for the IGM, the public pays the IGM. And I don't know any chance of worrying you so much that there is a chance that the wages of workers will not be paid to a public body. I wonder why you are so anxious and should be required to have workers take action against the employer - public. I have the impression that you are presenting IGM as a private body with an employer - an employer, who I do not know what might be possible to do. So this debate and this remark are out of place and time, it has no content. There is no question of they not being paid, so they need to take insurance measures against the public in order to get paid. These are excesses and no content. Secondly, the request to exclude all public creditors, workers and third parties from equality raises legal issues which everyone understands do not apply. Thirdly, the amendment is point one. This allows us tomorrow to define the new administration. Tomorrow will be appointed the new administration, not at any other time. The restrictions are off, so the new administration can go. The new command is ready. So we will start with the second step, as we said in the debate in the House. And the third issue - they are not identified in time, I have never suggested that they are identified in time - is the new character, the new law, the new regulation under which the IGM will operate. This will be a legislative initiative, a final and irreversible one, which will try to solve the problem that is persistently seeking to solve, at least on the part of the Democratic Integration, the EUR 50 million problem. We're not talking about one, two. I repeat: the EUR 50 million problem, which will be borne by the public budget. You seek to solve it in a way that you present it as if it were automatic. There are no such solutions. We have made it clear that we are not going to give so much money to a situation that still has certain judicial decisions. We'll see them. We'll respect them to every degree. However, our position has been formulated on all sides, both for workers and for workers here in public: we do not intend to pay the public extra money for a private insurance contract, which ended the reserve and is missing EUR 50 million. It is about the present and future ones. And the public budget will pay for it! There's a serious matter coming up. We are not going to follow such a practice. We did. We will find a solution, but which will defend the public interest. To be clear in all directions. For the friend, Mr Vardalis, I insist that I do not understand why you are identified with private insurance contracts for public workers. This question is gonna be left to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u88	I will give the floor to Mrs Kafantaris, from SYRIZA, for two minutes, and we will continue alternating.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u89	Good evening, too. I really think that the Democratic Reconciliation will vote in favour of the amendment on the IGM. But I would like to say two, three things. Mr Kegeroglu said - and rightly so - that we cannot do that there is no problem. Because I have been in this Chamber since 2012, the issue of HEME had been here too many times. They were preparing amendments which were not accepted again. I believe at the moment that the government, as the Minister said, has essentially to resolve issues of the past, which are not new. And tabling this amendment is really a start to resolve this issue, given the government's will, as was expressed before the Minister, that there must be the IGM. Like all modern European states, we cannot have a geological research institute, which, not least, has sixty-five years of history. Started at the ISH, Institute of Surround Research, became NICE and then ended up at the IGM. But I would like to remind you again of a few things, because I believe that there have been several issues in this two-year period. First of all, with Law 4024/2011 and with the Ministerial Decision 2520/2011 again - if we remember who they were then government - the EGM was basically merged with the EMCDDA. Since the first moves of the government since 2015 it has been essentially to dismantle the IGM and indeed to be autonomous and to operate. I would also like to remind you of the peculiar reserve in which 30 employees in the UFO had been subjected to previous coexistence. However, the issue is from now on to take a step forward. I therefore believe that it really seems with the tabling of this amendment, as I said at the outset, that there is a desire to resolve the issue, that essentially the EGMF must exist, upgraded, proceed with the ESDP programmes and the programming framework, in the year 2014-220, which have been tabled concrete projects and are very important. I would like to say that the average age of the IGM staff is quite high. So it must also be fed to young people and young scientists. I would like to say something else, which might evade and some people might not know about. It is not only the remarkable scientific staff that the institute has, it is the craftsmen, the craftsmen, the specialized drillers, who do not do a drilling, for example for water. There is a specialization in this area, too. Of course, there are also serious and very good laboratories that it has. And of course, there is also the library, which, in fact, in terms of the geological history of our country, our subsoil, etc., is fully equipped and has a great deal more to do. To close by the fact that in the country's productive reconstruction, clearly an institute for geological and mining research can play a very important role. The government took the step. Why, I say this again, the previous governments that say 'do not go any further', 'you want to move the solution to the future' etc., while the workers' struggles also existed, there were mobilisations and interventions by us who were opposition at that time, they did nothing. This government has dared and brought in the first amendment, and I believe that it will proceed in a reasonable time to reconstitute the EGMM in modern conditions, because it is, as we have said and I think we have all admitted it in this Chamber, a very important instrument. Thank you, Madam President, for the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u90	Mr. Xydakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u91	Thank you, Madam President. As far as the amendments are concerned, I think that the pilot service has all agreed, except for the colleague of the Communist Party who said that publicity is not guaranteed, if I understood correctly.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u92	What issue?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u93	For the Navigation Service.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u94	You probably didn't understand. We ask for the government's commitment.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u95	But there's no more commitment. The Minister will answer you. We cannot commit that the public will be more public. That's what I want to tell you. The same thing was expressed for the IGM. They're civil servants, if they stop, they pay the civil servants, they say they're out of the state. The Minister answered that. I think Mr Santorinios will also tell you about the pilot service that more public security cannot be provided. As far as IGM is concerned, Mrs Triantafyllou, the rapporteur of ratification, with great vigour and vigour, said that we are waiting for a creative follow-up to the actual reorganisation of the Institute for Geological and Mining Research, because it is an essential tool for the national economy, in general. We also expect brave decisions and speeds from the Minister, Mr Stathakis, who said he is starting tomorrow. We keep this commitment. Here we will be in Parliament, and concentrating and opposition, to monitor it. From there on, because Mr Kefaloniann has heard from my colleague, Mr Kefaloniannis, the anguish that EGME was not abolished and merged, I have to say that during the period of the Memorandum of Understanding and the enormous pressures that our country has accepted from creditors, from previous governments - it is an observation, I do not only criticise - there have been so many mergers and abolitions which have been destabilised in critical areas of public life. The inspection services, such as environmental inspectors, were sent, which is the most crucial tool of a small, flexible, democratic, operational state. There are few inspectors to check whether they are properly and in accordance with existing legislation the functions of businesses, shops and a number of sectors. The OTEC, the Organisation for Tourism Education, was abolished overnight, and tourist education was disorganized and we are trying to gather one thing. In other words, in one of the pillars of the Greek economy, the training of managers was dismantled. Thus the IGM was abolished, as we have to reorganise our look at the mineral wealth, its most suitable exploitation, when we have before us the next decade of exploitation and extraction of hydrocarbons in the pelagic. The critical scientific body, which has been building all the geological map and map of mineral wealth, is being abolished for decades and has accumulated know-how. Let me not remind you how the Samara-Venizelos conflict has defined the legislation for the evaluation of civil servants, which was institutionalised by Ragosi, and which we have reinstated since the start of rational, operational in its turn. Still with the unevaluated general directors in the public sector, the Greek administration works and you speak of a party state. The ultimate eviction of the Greek administration brought about and was the Minister of Administrative Reform, the current Chief of Police of the Reformation. So remember these things. I do not deny that there have been difficulties throughout this critical seven-year period, and we will have difficulties in the next few years, but when we discuss the data, the facts and what has happened. I will also await Mr Santorini's explanations to assure his colleague, the JRC, that the public's publicity is not dispersed. From there on, I think that the involvement of some of the Vice-Presidents and the EGMM's amendment and the pilot service shows a maturity and an agreement to the necessary minimum. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u96	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u97	Madam President, I ask for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u98	Mr. Santorinier, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u99	Madam President, I ask for a little more time. I didn't exhaust the time before.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u100	Madam President, will you allow seconds?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u101	No secondarys.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u102	I want to say a word.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u103	You, Mr. Katsiki, talked, you were a speaker, you're done. Gentlemen, we're not done. There's a lot more of them. Wait, don't rush. He wants the Minister to intervene.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u104	I can speak at the end of the procedure, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u105	Okay, at the end. Mr. Carras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u106	Only for the amendment to extend the Banks' Extraordinary Racism Mechanism, I would like to speak, Madam President, and I will say why. Greece joined this mechanism at the beginning of 2011 to meet the direct capital requirements of the banks. An exceptional liquidity facility has become a permanent scheme. Why am I saying that? We are already in the seventh year, and we are going with the extensions for both the eighth and possible for the ninth, if we consider that we are reaching 2019. An exceptional mechanism launched by EUR 15 billion, which was the guarantees given by the Greek State, and today we have gradually reached EUR 90 billion of guarantees. Of course, these guarantees do not reflect 90 billion banks' debts, they account for about 44 billion. The questions are as follows, however: Are these measures, even temporary liquidity measures to be provided to banks, or are we finally allowing the banks to drift, given that we also have capital controls? I will give two examples: the maintenance of the Extraordinary Responsibility Mechanism favours the preservation of the issue of the regulation of red loans, whether business or family loans. Furthermore, it also creates the conditions for banks to earn time, adding interest, adding commissions and interest on late payment to the debts of the Greek economy, because they have the "cushion" to receive emergency aid from the European Central Bank. A second question which arises is this: has the government weighed the risks that remain unresolved of the emergency mechanism? I would like to remind you that we are providing the guarantees to the Bank of Greece, which are currently not included in public debt. At a time when, and I deplore it, the Bank of Greece will be invited to pay the guarantees provided by the public debt, this debt will be transferred to the public debt. Thirdly, if you wish, banks have been recapitalised three times - successfully or unfortunately, it does not matter - with taxpayers' money. They were not capitalised by shareholders or bond holders, but by taxpayers' money. We have also given them the privilege of deferred tax, of offsetting income tax on subsequent uses on future profits. All these measures, therefore, maintain a banking system that cannot deliver, maintains a banking system in a hostage, rather than imposes a government's solution to red loans. And why do I insist on that, Madam President? Because if red loans are solved, for the extrajudicial mechanism, I expect to hear what will work. We'll see along the way because there's a flaw. What's his fault? That the great creditor of every operation he has to vote for is the bank. There will now depend on the success of the compromise, the mechanism or not of the banks' votes and not on the consent of the other creditors. That's it. Now, if we do not address this issue, the country's economy will flow over the next few years into the same denominator. The solution, therefore, which I think we should give, is to clarify the bank portfolios, to release funds that are being held for the necessary adequacy imposed by the European Central Bank on stress tests, so that these funds can be channelled to the market, channelled to the economy, gains and guarantees can be paid. And I do not think the argument in the explanatory statement that it receives a public commission is serious, because this commission is not actually paid, as no commission has ever been paid out from all that we are writing. I therefore ask the government to speed up the resolution of the question of the temporary mechanism, the emergency mechanism, because we are therefore giving arguments to delaying the country's development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u107	Thank you, too. Mr. Pappas has the floor from Golden Dawn for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u108	Madam President, there is one point today: the debate is taking place at a plenary sitting of 16 Members. And not only that, but very important amendments are introduced, in breach of the Rules of Procedure, to a ratification. I shall briefly speak about the 'philipino' - let's say that by saying that, in an amendment, it is introduced into a sanction for the Philippines. Perhaps this is symbolic because it demonstrates how faithful a servant the government is to creditors, creditors. The wise people have a neology in the new Greek, that is a word that characterises servants or servants. It says 'the Philippines'. It may therefore also be symbolic that you have introduced an amendment to extend two more years to the guarantees of the Greek State to the Bank of Greece in order to continue to provide liquidity along with the Reality Mechanism to banks based in our country. What is more, then, a Memorandum of Understanding, when the euro is moving on a high priced orbit? The government offers everything for the banks and not only for the banks, but for the banks and their bosses, banks, which, now and now, but which will mainly appear in September, will pour out as vultures in the micro-residues of the Greeks, in the first residence of the Greeks, banks that have been supported by the Greek people's money. the famous three recapitalisations, which are directed at consensus or even prompted by the government against the people. So you support the banks, but you do not support the Greek people, and we, the Greek nationalists, consider this to be a shame. That is what concerns 'big' amendment. I shall refer for a moment, as did the rapporteur for counter-population, to what happened yesterday in this Chamber, namely yesterday's horrific battles between the two political leaders, the horrific battles between SYRIZA and the New Democracy. The cohort, which was done here yesterday, demonstrated to the entire Greek people that the only difference between these two factions, that is, the Left - Central Left - say it as you like - and the "Dexia" or "Centroright" became not for the discharge of our country and the Greek people from the memorial loop, but for each political leader to prove, that is Mr. Tsipras and Mr. Mitsotakis, how much better manager he is or will be in the demands and orders of the credit cards. The debate has also been extended to other issues. Mostly, it expanded during the secondary phases of the political leaders, there was a quarrel between the political leaders, to who would show the largest anti-nationalist and anti-Greek groups. I am very pleased about that, because the more you identify the two groups against the nationalists, the more you strengthen the Golden Dawn and the popular support of the Golden Dawn. We saw the Mitsotakis Central Right yesterday literally crawling like a obedient dog in the jewels of the nationalist and anti-nationalist Left. Yesterday the caterpillars of the memorandum, Tsipras and Mitsotakis also made a decision against the Golden Dawn, thus showing their respect for Greek justice when there is an ongoing trial. And well, the New Democracy knows her, with her trespassing circuits, with Athanasios, with Dendia, with Samaras, with all of them, with Doyako. On the left, all those who today are Ministers and once were students benefactors with the vines, singing in the spoons and in the taverns "of justice has become understandable", what are they doing now? What are they singing now? Champagne, caviar and Velouchiot Mars? Because that's what's going on. I would like to take this opportunity, Madam President, one more minute to address a few issues today, since we also have representatives of the Foreign Ministry. Of course, Mr Kotzias is dealing with other issues, foreign policy and talks. I would like to support Mr Kotzia's attitude today in the talks with the Turkish Foreign Minister, Mevlut Tsavosoglu. Mr Kotzias asked him why Tsavosoglu and Turkey insisted on the invasive plans, the rights that they have in Cyprus, and said Tsavosoglu "Why, if necessary, we will use them". In other words, he proclaimed that Attila was preoccupied over Cyprus. Mr Kotzias, instead of leaving the talks at that time, instead of denouncing the Turkish attitude, has tolerated this provocation and the insult, that is, the confession of the Turkish intentions before him. In simple terms, Mr. Kotzias completely covered the war threats of Cavousoglou and swept the head ahead of this challenge. Be sure, ladies and gentlemen, that there are Greeks who don't bend their heads, there are Greeks who resist, there are Greeks who look forward to the golden dawn of Hellenism, which will mean this dawn days of freedom and days of progress. I should like to close, Madam President, with yesterday's incident, which I consider to be very characteristic of the Government's position in this case and not just. I close with the sight we saw yesterday by the Deputy Minister, Mr. Juliarakis, who, on the Step of the House, killed a fly, showing exactly what a Memorandum Government does. Inside the summer race kills flies. Everything's on the autopilot, everything's decided by the outside. The government is a government of memorandum manifolds, which only manages communication and internal policy. Nothing else! [[Mr DIMITRIOS KRIMASTINOS]] You have bosses. They're out of the way. We, who have no bosses, have no interests either internally or externally, and will always speak with the voice of truth, because we have nothing to say but the Greek people who have made us here and fight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u109	Thank you, Mr. Pappa. Has any Minister asked why?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u110	I have asked for the floor to speak on the amendments, like Mrs Papanatsiou and Mr Santorinios.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u111	Mrs Papanatsiou, Mr Santorinios and Mr Amanatidis have asked for the floor. You want to talk now? Shall we start with Mrs. Papanatsiou?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u112	To complete the process, to speak to the rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u113	The rapporteurs should speak. Three are still talking.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u114	Mr. Katsikis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u115	Mr President, I would not have taken the floor if I had not had to restore the truth, which, in my opinion, has distorted and abused both the New Democracy colleague and the Democratic Independence colleague. The first one began to say that we were in danger of becoming graphics, because in this bill we introduced unnecessarily amendments and violate Parliament's Rules of Procedure. However, he did and act as the teacher, who was teaching and law, since he did not follow the subject on which the plenary session was intended, he referred to the face of the President of the Independent Greeks, Mr Kammenos, saying that he himself called for a committee of inquiry, which the Prime Minister refused. So to restore the truth, I would like to say that Mr Kammenos said what he said is that 'if you have any superiors' - and I repeat it exactly as he said - 'Do a motion of censure'. With regard to the other colleague from the Democratic Independence, I have to say that no confusion occurred when I, in the amendment developed by Mrs Papanatsiou, commented on the reference made by the Members of the Democratic Independence to the fact that today quantitative relaxation is not coming up and is being hampered because we have extended the law, which has entered into force by 2019 in the 2011 Legislation and extended it, so that the Bank of Greece has the guarantees of the public in order to deal with a possible credit event that may come from the systemic banks. I said, therefore, and I repeat that whether you say 'quantitative relaxation' or 'exit', or you say 'Qe', for you who say so many times these three different things in public, it is not an argument to say here today in Parliament that'so we are extending a provision that you voted on and did not start when you declared yourself on the market in '13 or '14'. That's all I wanted to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u116	Mrs. Triantafyl has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u117	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to make two comments. The first has to do with foreign policy. In my view, foreign policy cannot in any case be a collection of ideological positions. It must be organised very carefully in support of a particular main effort. This main effort can be no more than a strengthening of the country's sovereign rights. In relation to the reference to Cyprus and what is written on the various sites in relation to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, I must say that, in my opinion, if we do not want to land unrealisticly on the rocky surface of historical and new political data, we must know very well the historical data, we must not retreat to our sovereign rights. In relation to Cyprus, Greece is next to Cyprus. It's a sister country, Cyprus. From there on, I say again that it makes no sense to respond in such a way to these challenges. We must, however, be there and always respond very specifically, when they are provoked or when sovereign rights are threatened. The second in relation to IGM - and I am ending - because I have indeed said the word 'chiroto' and I do not take it back, although I support and support the amendment as a SYRIZA, which is indeed a tick. But I said other things. I said, for example, that it is incomprehensible that the practice that has been in existence for years, that is to say, the practice of having a private company contract and entering the pension. I said that all this was a trick, which was used by old political leaderships, for specific objectives and even today, if you look at the FGMD, and if they look for colleagues and know it well, there are such parameters in relation to health. I won't expand.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u118	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u119	So in order to restore the truth and no misunderstandings, because easily there are misinterpretations, I would like to stress that it is the beginning of an effort. Here, too, we must clearly point out that it is the beginning of an attempt by this government to complete and correct the operation of the EGMM, which in previous years was not just there, but in the Memorandum years the EGMM was demolished by a specific government. Thank you for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u120	Thank you. Please, Mr Vardalis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u121	Mr President, will all the rapporteurs take the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u122	No, only those who asked for the floor. Mrs Triantafyllou has asked for the floor. Here, Mr Vardalis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u123	Thank you, Mr President. Although Mr Stathakis has left, I would like to comment on an issue he raised about the position of the Communist Party of Greece, in fact, regarding the identification of private interests. I would like to say this: he said he does not understand this identity of the Communist Party of Greece with private interests. First of all, there has been no, nor will there be any such identification, except in the logic of the Minister. We identify and always identify ourselves with the interests of the workers and the wide folk. On the occasion when the Minister opened this issue, however, I would like to say two words on the substance of the matter. What happened then? The urban state, instead of giving workers increased profits, urged them, as it does now, to go to private insurance, to private companies. Workers must draw conclusions from this experience as well. Private insurance companies put a padlock - you see, the private initiative - and workers, despite paying for insurance contributions, stay out of place and now the rulings wash their hands. So why, for the banks, for example, do you not say 'we cannot go on in the light of the country's financial conditions'? For workers, however, you cannot. That is the essence of the matter. Finally - I guess I was not understood by his colleague, SYRIZA - despite what we have said, the amendment to the pilot service, as was the case with the EGF, we have clearly stated that we will vote on it. All we have asked for is because there are issues relating to the privatisation of the navigating service and specific interests that promote it, the government's commitment that this will not happen. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u124	Thank you. Mr. Constantinople has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u125	Minister, many times in the House there is an attempt to distort history. I will not answer Mr Kotzia's question because there are competent ministers to answer it. But under no circumstances can the praisers of the junta, who caused the Turkish invasion of Cyprus to move the finger. Because today we have the return of the heroes from Cyprus, who were sent to a suicide mission by Juda and those who praise them today, I want everyone to know that history cannot be omitted. 'I don't forget' is as timely as ever for all of us. The second is that I want to say something to my colleague from the ANELs. I understand that you're a little confused, you're putting everything in a bag, QE, quantitative relaxation, opening up markets, outlets, etc. I understand that. But it's not like that. How do we do it? The government is aiming at quantitative relaxation that is positive for the country, for development, so that we can get out of the crisis. He didn't make it. Do not at least try to confuse things, because I think people understand and underestimate it by saying 'out of the markets', at first you say that it existed in 2014, and then they told you that there was not that, to change it and to change it again. Please, Minister, we cannot confuse this country. It's like talking to those who are in prison and those who are out of prison. It can't be done. The insiders are inside prison, and the outsiders are out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u126	Thank you. Mr. Theocharopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u127	Mr President, I take the floor for an amendment tabled. I just want to say this: it has been tabled by Members of three parties. From the Democratic Integration, from the River and the Centron Association. It has been submitted on several occasions, with a view to finally stopping the economic deadlock of the Single Reporting Organisation, the ERCEA. It is not an incident, it is something very serious, as it is at risk of collapse. There is one particular proposal here, and I will not analyse it. In any case, if the ministers do not accept it, tomorrow we will find a solution. Its cross-party statement is exactly what it wants to show that a problem needs to be resolved immediately. Now, as far as the others are concerned, we have done so. On the issue of quantitative relaxation, debt and primary surplus would have been much better than the government and the government majority, these three issues that they have failed not to argue with.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u128	Mr. Kefaliannis for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u129	Thank you, Mr President. I take the floor to answer Mr Katsiki. I wouldn't take the floor, but I think he didn't say things right somewhere. First of all, I spoke as a parliamentary representative and not as rapporteur, so in this capacity I also have the right to comment on some of the issues that have taken place in this Chamber. When I referred to the term 'graphics', I said, for instance, that we will end up in graphics, because we are constantly repeating the fact that there are continually lacking amendments. I did not say that it was graphic in the government that brought the amendments. As far as I am concerned, I was not careful what I was saying, but as far as at least his party leader is concerned, he should be more careful. I read from the minutes of the House yesterday because he actually said that Mr Kammenos was not mentioned yesterday for a pre-examination committee: "Panos Kammenos (Minister of National Defence, President of the Independent Greeks): Leave the threats! Submission of a motion of censure or lodge a motion of censure. Check it out. Are you threatening the newspapers?’ The dialogue is continuing, of course. Mr Colleague, your President spoke of a pre-review committee yesterday. You can get the Minutes of the House yesterday. In the question, of course, Mr Mitsotakis told him to go to a committee of inquiry. I was expecting you to be more careful. I specifically referred to what your President said and the answer given by the President of the New Democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u130	Thank you, Mr. Kefaliannis. Mr. Xydakis, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u131	I would like to make a clarification of the speech made by my colleague Mr Theocharopoulos on the EDEAP, the Journalists' Auxiliary Insurance Fund. There is no need for an amendment. We hope that a solution will be found to a number of formal obstacles to the standardization of a provision which, in any case, has an exceptional character. It's a provision that SYRIZA, collapsing proposed. It was voted for by the Democratic Alliance, while the New Democracy had voted for it. This is not something to which someone has a direct political interest. This is a legal person governed by public law, one of the few self-managed insurance funds that has been in a bad position and it is our duty to do something within the constitutional order and legal order to help it. This is the initiative taken by colleagues. It won't be necessary for now. I think that we will go along with this very soon we should also be able to agree in this Chamber to provide a solution with permanent, stable features to create a viable insurance organisation. There I look forward to the assistance and sincere cooperation of all the political parties and the New Democracy, which voted against a provision which gave a very incomplete temporary solution to an anguish, essentially for a loan facility. Everything that has been heard about how we are going to discuss Cyprus and the national issues with cultures that are being tried for criminal activity, I think we should look at it as consistent democratic politicians. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u132	Thank you, too. Mr Papanatsiou, State Secretary, has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u133	First of all, as far as red loans are concerned, banks and so on. Reported by colleagues in this Chamber, there is the Stathakis law that replaced Katselis law. There's an extrajudicial compromise. We come to heal the issues that have taken place in the Greek society that taught the loans as a matter of urgency and we have reached the point where we have arrived so that the banks need the help they need. We're coming to treat it with these laws. We think the extrajudicial compromise will work. We will see the results in the next period and move on. With regard to this amendment, by decision of the Minister of Finance on a recommendation from the Bank of Greece, it can be extended from 2013 onwards to the level of the commission and its duration. It started in 2011. He came back in 2012, 2013, 2014 and from there after 2016 from us. It really started from EUR 15 billion and reached EUR 90 billion. The ending of this should, in our view, reach the 30-6-2019 which is also the proposal of the Bank of Greece. The main specificity here of ELA in relation to the normal guarantees of the Greek State lies in the fact that there is no specific request for funding for a specific purpose and under given conditions. The guarantee shall be provided to revolving loans of a few days' duration provided by the Bank of Greece to credit institutions and the frequency of which cannot be determined in advance as they depend on the liquidity conditions prevailing at any given point in time in the banking system. As a result of all this and as it is necessary to ensure adequate liquidity in the domestic credit system, we consider it absolutely essential that the Bank of Greece's request is met in time to give the assurance to all citizens who deposit their money to be sure of the credit institutions that exist in Greece. That is why we are promoting the relevant legislation. As to the anxiety of counterpopulation about getting out on the market, I would like to say that it is not panacea that exits the market. Development can come in other ways. We won't rush it. If he's going to come to that particular time, we'll all see.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u134	Thank you. Mr. Santorinios has the floor for two minutes, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u135	I wanted to answer a few questions, but I would also like to make a comment on what has been said earlier about the Navigation Agency. As far as the legislative framework for the Navigation Service is concerned, Mr Kouzelis, we have already announced a committee for the codification of legislation. Indeed, the fact that it has been working for so many years with a royal decree is a matter but it will be codified and I think that this matter will be resolved. But from there on, I have to say something that has been heard from the side of the Democratic Alliance. They said we were doing what Mr Varvitsiotis did, and anyway, they wondered what was differentiating. Typically there was L.4354/2015 for which we need to clarify that this positive exemption applies to pilots. In essence, however, Mr Constantinople, we are correcting exactly what Mr Dannelis described: the timeless indifference for the pilot service that wanted to privatise it. Because since 2008 no pilot had been hired, Mr. Bardalis. Now we've hired three, and we've made a call for four others. In this way we will preserve the public status, the public nature of the Pilot Agency. And one more way. I said from the outset that we have made a notice for seven voyages and on the market ten machines to restore five voyages which are currently in use so that the pilot service can actually operate in public and there is no reason for any company to ask us to privatise this important service, such as the Navigation Agency. So not only are we assured, but we also do what you and you have asked for. We are doing something to ensure the public character of the Pilot Agency. We are also committed to this. They asked the Centro Association why these pay exceptions would exist. Trust me. These people have very important qualifications, they have great risk in their profession, they are very important to the safety of the port but also to the safety of life at sea, and therefore these wage exemptions are not only justified, but they are imposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u136	Thank you, too. The Undersecretary, Mr. Amanatidis, has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u137	Mr President, I would like to inform the House that the four ministerial amendments are accepted, 1088 with a special number of 13, 1089 with a special number of 14, 1090 with a special number of 15 and 1091 with a special number of 16. The parliamentary amendment in the context and the position taken is not acceptable. It has been deposited under number 1092 and number 17. I think that this has been said and will be taken into account by the Minister and by the Minister. First of all, it seems to me that he was tabled today at 17.40. You understand that in the absence of the Minister, this cannot be done, especially for social security. However, let me say that, many times, opposition should not be drawn from the hair so that it becomes opposition. For example, there has been a matter of three rapporteurs, both PASOK and the River and the Centroon Union, that no matter what bills there are going to be amendments. You yourself tabled amendments. So whether or not you refer to it at all and table the amendment or whether you mention it and say 'why do you bring any amendments'? Do not table an amendment. They can't both be together. I don't know that thing goes beyond my logic. The last political comment I want to make is that the government has negotiated. It wasn't a waste of time. He negotiated and brought the best result. It is the best result that even now, the second day, in the wake of yesterday's debate, you have to pursue a policy which does not develop arguments and is short-sighted. They are policies that have no arguments at all. The third thing I want to say is that those who basically opened not a ferry but the door to the betrayal of Cyprus are the last people who can talk about attitudes, especially Mr Kotzia's Foreign Minister. And even in ratification of a contract they were unable to make racist comments as to whether anyone was from the Philippines or from somewhere else. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u138	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles, amendments and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is hereby concluded: 'Following the Agreement on Partnership and Cooperation between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of the Philippines, of the other part'. Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u139	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u140	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u141	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u142	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u143	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u144	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u145	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u146	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u147	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: 'Following the Agreement - Framework Partnership and Cooperation between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of the Philippines, of the other part,' was accepted by a majority. We are entering the vote on articles and amendments. Asked by this House: Can the first article be accepted as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u148	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u149	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u150	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u151	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u152	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u153	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u154	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u155	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u156	The first article was therefore accepted as a majority. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number of 1088 and a special number of 13 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u157	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u158	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u159	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u160	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u161	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u162	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u163	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u164	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u165	Therefore, the amendment under a general number of 1088 and a special 13 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number of 1089 and a special number of 14 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u166	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u167	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u168	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u169	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u170	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u171	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u172	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u173	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u174	Therefore, the amendment under a general number of 1089 and a special 14 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. We are entering the vote on the amendment with a general number of 1090 and a special number of 15 as it stands.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u175	Mr President, we in this amendment will vote 'at present' because, in Mr Kefaloniann's question, we have not been covered by Mr Santorini in relation to paragraph 3 on procurement and supplies.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u176	Good. Does this House accept the amendment with a general number of 1090 and a special number of 15 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u177	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u178	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u179	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u180	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u181	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u182	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u183	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u184	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u185	Therefore, the amendment under a general number of 1090 and a special 15 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number of 1091 and a special number of 16?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u186	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u187	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u188	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u189	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u190	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u191	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u192	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u193	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u194	Therefore, the amendment under a general number of 1091 and a special 16 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. We are entering the vote of the nominee. Does the House agree to the hotel article, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u195	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u196	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u197	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u198	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u199	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u200	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u201	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u202	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u203	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: 'Following the Agreement - Framework Partnership and Cooperation between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of the Philippines, of the other part,' was accepted in principle and in Articles. We are entering the vote on the entire bill. Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u204	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u205	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u206	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u207	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u208	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u209	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u210	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u211	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u212	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: ‘Statement of the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of the Philippines, of the other part, and other provisions’, was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, on the principle of Articles and of the whole and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u213	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u214	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-04-S1-commons.u215	With the consent of the House at 20.34' the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Wednesday 5 July 2017 at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of Parliament's work: a) election of Vice-Presidents of the Greek Parliament and b) parliamentary scrutiny, in accordance with the two special agendas distributed.
